https://www.westernjournal.com/l/lizangarola/little-girl-with-cancer-dances-while-doctor-plays-the-ukulele-at-hospital/
['Liz Angarola', 'Tia Starr', 'Carolyn Marie', 'Kayla Kunkel', 'Amanda Thomason', 'Casey Allen']
2018-05-31 14:07:08-07:00
Little Girl with Cancer Dances While Doctor Plays the Ukulele at Hospital
 
The journey for a young child diagnosed with cancer is heartbreaking.

Their strength is astounding as they undergo constant testing and treatments to give them hope for a future.

While it may be difficult at times for these children to live out a “normal” childhood, those watching over them often do all they can to make their journey a bit less frightening.

One little girl named Sophia is certainly showcasing her strength after her diagnosis with a rare disease called Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis.

When Dr. Paulo Martins brought out his ukelele in the hospital to cheer up older patients, Sophia soon heard him playing and started looking for him.

TRENDING: Mother Cries Tears of Joy After Daughter Who Went Missing 24 Years Ago is Found

When Dr. Martins realized what she was trying to do, her visited the pediatric oncology ward to play a song just for her.

And as soon as the music began to play, the joy was clear on Sophia’s face.

The little girl almost immediately began to dance, the music taking away her thoughts of pain and treatments.

Her subtle wiggles quickly turned into energized dance moves as the little girl entertained a growing crowd.

Many other hospitals are taking note of the idea that just a little love can brighten any young cancer patient’s day.

Take Brazil’s recently renamed Hospital of Love, which encourages an emphasis on love during such a difficult time for a child.

The hospital created a video and composed a song just to depict how healing the power of love can be.

“Winning cancer is much easier when we are surrounded by much affection and care,” the hospital explained. “In more than 50 years of history, our institution has always endeavored to offer highly qualified, humanized and full of love.”

RELATED: Wife Slips into Coma Days After Giving Birth, Husband Sings at Bedside Before She Passes Away

In the video a young girl diagnosed with cancer is quickly plunged into fear when faced with the thought of battling the disease.

But soon, the love of her family, doctors, and more along her journey pull her up and away from the darkness and back to those who love her.

While a child’s journey through cancer is difficult, it’s heartwarming to see how seemingly small moments of love and support can make all the difference in the world to them.

Submit your story here, and subscribe to our best uplifting stories here.

Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.