https://pagesix.com/2018/05/30/kim-kardashian-arrives-at-white-house-to-discuss-prison-reform/
['May']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Kim Kardashian meets with Trump to discuss prison reform
 
It was the commander and cheeks!

Kim Kardashian strutted into the Oval Office on Wednesday for a sit-down with President Donald Trump to discuss criminal justice issues — including an imprisoned drug offender she discovered on Twitter.

The reality queen donned high heels and an all-black ensemble for the highly anticipated White House meeting.

Kardashian was spotted entering the West Wing around 4:45 p.m. and leaving about an hour later.

She spoke with both Trump and Jared Kushner, whom she met through Ivanka Trump, according to sources.

The mother-of-three requested the White House meeting after hearing about the plight of Alice Marie Johnson on social media late last year.

“This is so unfair,” Kardashian tweeted in October 2017, along with a link to an interview Johnson, 63, did on Mic.com.

Sources told The Post that Kardashian argued that Johnson — a Memphis great-grandmother convicted of a drug conspiracy — had paid her debt to society after 21 years behind bars and deserves clemency.

The meeting went “well,” sources said, and now the decision is in Trump’s hands.

After the meeting, Kardashian headed to Ivanka and Jared’s DC home for a private dinner.

It was to be a continuation of the White House meeting, since Kushner is a passionate advocate for criminal justice reform after living through his father’s imprisonment.

“Happy Birthday Alice Marie Johnson. Today is for you,” Kardashian tweeted before arriving in Washington.

She was accompanied by her personal attorney, Shawn Holley, who is helping Johnson.

The first-time non-violent drug offender was sentenced to life in prison in 1997 after she admitted to acting as an intermediary for drug pushers.

While President Barack Obama granted 1,927 clemency requests before leaving office, Johnson was not one of them.

“This main thing is we want Ms. Alice free and we want to raise awareness to the broader issue that people are sentenced to die in prison,” said Brittany Barnett, a member of her legal team.

“Ms. Alice is serving the same amount of time as the Unibomber. People need to feel that.”

Kardashian was able to build a relationship with Johnson by talking to her on the phone in her Alabama federal prison.

“Kim is looking at this from a human rights and human dignity perspective,” Barnett said of their conversation. “It went like two friends. One friend is trying to save the life of the other.”

Kardashian helped fund and assemble a legal team for Johnson.

After the meeting, Trump tweeted a photo of the two together at the Resolute Desk, with him seated and her standing to his right.

“Great meeting with @KimKardashian today, talked about prison reform and sentencing,” he wrote. It was later retweeted by the @POTUS account.

The White House meeting was a culmination of weeks of planning that started with Kardashian reaching out to Ivanka, who then put her in touch with Kushner — a champion of prison reform.

It came just weeks after Kardashian’s husband, Kanye West, came under fire for publicly voicing his support for Trump.

While the rapper is a fan of the president, it’s unclear if his wife feels the same way.

Trump has ridiculed Kardashian in the past — and even body-shamed her while speaking on the “Howard Stern Show.”

“Does she have a good body? No. Does she have a fat ass? Absolutely,” Trump said during a 2013 interview.

Surprisingly, Kim is not the first Kardashian to grace the halls of the White House. Her sister, Khloe, accompanied ex-husband Lamar Odom during the Lakers’ championship visit in 2010 and got to meet Obama.

Jessica Jackson Sloan, who directs the Dream Corps’ #cut50 initiative, was at the White House earlier this month working with Kushner and Trump on criminal justice reform. The president is sincerely interested in getting something done on prison reform, she said.

“I hope the president will feel moved by Kim Kardashian, who in some ways is the perfect messenger on this because she doesn’t come to this as someone who has been a longtime advocate or even somebody who has been directly impacted,” Sloan said. “She comes from the perspective of somebody who was not really aware of this issue until she started hearing about Ms. Alice’s case and cases like that and had her own sort of transformation.”