https://nypost.com/2018/05/31/syracuse-st-johns-breathing-easier-after-draft-deadline-passes/
['May']
2018-05-31 00:00:00
Syracuse, St. John’s breathing easier after draft deadline passes
 
It’s no longer too early to begin making projections for next year’s college basketball season. Wednesday night was the deadline for players to either keep their name eligible for the June 21 NBA draft and sign with an agent or return to school. There were some surprises, and a few questionable decisions.

These are some of the biggest winners and losers from the testing-waters portion of the draft process:

Winners

Syracuse: Burned by players leaving early in the past, Syracuse seemed destined to lose another star. Most felt shooting guard Tyus Battle was headed to the NBA despite being projected as a mid-second-round pick. But the Edison, N.J., native is coming back for one more year, fortifying a solid roster that will return all five starters now and adds top New Jersey recruit Jalen Carey.

St. John’s: Go ahead, Red Storm fans. You can dream about an NCAA Tournament bid now that Big East leading scorer Shamorie Ponds is back after working out for six NBA teams. The 6-foot-1 southpaw was one of just two players to be selected to all-league Big East teams who had eligibility left and came back. More good news could be on the way, too, as Auburn transfer Mustapha Heron will be in Queens on a visit Thursday, and there is a chance the rugged 6-5 wing could be eligible if granted a hardship waiver.

Nevada: Twin brothers Cody and Caleb Martin returning to Nevada give the Wolfpack a preseason top 10 team, and a legitimate Final Four contender. The multi-talented forwards waited until 30 minutes before the midnight deadline to decide, but coach Eric Musselman will take it, because he will have an even better team next year than the one that reached the Sweet 16, since he also adds a number of intriguing transfers, brings back physical forward Jordan Caroline, and McDonald’s All-American Jordan Brown.

Kentucky: John Calipari won’t have to rely solely on freshmen next year. Gifted 6-foot-7 forward PJ Washington is back, deciding on Wednesday and anchoring what should be a deep and formidable front line that also includes returnee Nick Richards, and possibly Stanford star forward Reid Travis, a graduate transfer already being linked to the Wildcats who averaged 19.5 points and 8.7 rebounds a year ago. Kentucky did lose sophomore wing Wenyen Gabriel and freshman forward Jarred Vanderbilt to the professional ranks on Wednesday, but adds it’s usual array of five-star freshmen.

Auburn: Losing Mustapha Heron, an All-SEC second-team selection hurts, but Bruce Pearl still batted .750, as guards Bryce Brown and Jared Harper, along with forward Austin Wiley, opted to pass on the pros, giving the Tigers a solid shot to finish atop the SEC for the second straight year.

Losers

Villanova: The national champion’s top four scorers are gone. Jalen Brunson and Mikal Bridges were not expected back, but there was hope Final Four Most OUtstanding Player Donte DiVincenzo and sharpshooting forward Omari Spellman could return before both boosted their stock at the NBA combine. It will leave coach Jay Wright in uncharted waters, relying on inexperienced players, in particular five-star point guard Jahvon Quinerly of New Jersey’s Hudson Catholic, in pivotal roles.

Maryland: Yes, forward Bruno Fernando opted to return on Tuesday, a positive development. But losing skilled wing Kevin Huerter is more damaging than encouraging. The 6-7 Huerter was the team’s top 3-point shooter at 41.7 percent, one of the Terrapins’ premier playmakers and a quality rebounder. However, it wasn’t a surprise, considering the Clifton Park native had moved himself up draft boards, into a likely first-round pick after a stellar performance at the combine. Plus, forward Justin Jackson signed with an agent despite appearing in just 11 games because of a torn labrum in his right shoulder.

Texas A&M: Projected first-round pick Robert Williams leaving was a given. But the departures of forwards DJ Hogg and Tyler Davis, neither of whom is a lock to even get drafted, are major blows to this Sweet 16 team. The Aggies could tumble down the loaded SEC.