https://nypost.com/2018/05/30/bill-and-melinda-gates-buy-daughter-5m-apartment/
['Jennifer Gould Keil', 'May']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Bill and Melinda Gates buy daughter $5M apartment
 
Don’t be surprised if you see accomplished equestrian Jennifer Gates horsing around uptown. Her billionaire parents, Bill and Melinda Gates, have bought her a $5 million condo at 1212 Fifth Ave., Gimme Shelter has learned.

The East Harlem deal closed in December 2017 and, we hear, is intended for 22-year-old Jennifer to use following her graduation from Stanford in June. (She studies biology, and sources say she plans on attending medical school in New York. Conveniently, Mount Sinai’s med school is just blocks away.)

The purchase was made through a trust administered by Watermark Estate Management Services LLC, which Bill Gates uses for personal and family matters, according to reports.

The three-bedroom condo, which is 2,389 square feet with stunning Central Park views, was last asking $5.25 million. Features include a living/dining area that faces west to the park and a master bedroom with a spa-style ensuite bathroom. The building was constructed in 1925 and designed by architects George and Edward Blum. Gut-renovated in 2012 and once home to Carmelo and La La Anthony, the building has a gym, a residents’ lounge and a children’s playroom.

Earlier this month, we reported the philanthropic power couple’s purchase of a nearly $16 million, 124-acre horse farm for Jennifer in Westchester, which is fitting given her history of equestrian competition.

The apartment’s sellers were David Zornow and Martha Malkin Zornow.

David is global head of litigation at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, while Martha is the founding principal of Girls Prep Bronx Middle School. The listing brokers, Brown Harris Stevens’ Wendy Sarasohn, Jamie Joseph and Tania Isacoff, declined to comment.

Another apartment at 1212 Fifth Ave., several floors below Jennifer’s, is currently on the market for $4.9 million. The three-bedroom measures 2,389 square feet and also boasts Central Park views. There’s an eat-in chef’s kitchen and a corner master suite with oversize windows. Other details include solid oak floors and recessed LED lighting.

The listing brokers are Stribling’s Alexa Lambert, Marc Achilles and Julie Soffen.