http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/charlierichards/2018/05/29/glaad-demands-even-higher-gay-and-trans-character-quotas-on-tv-n2485296
['Charlie Richards', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas', 'Chris Reeves']
2018-05-29 00:00:00
GLAAD Demands Even Higher Gay And Trans Character Quotas On TV
 
There are certain subgroups who will never be satisfied. GLAAD, originally an acronym for the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, is one of them. And they are here to make sure you are aware of every complaint.

The far-left group puts out a “Studio Responsibility Index” where they analyze what they call “quantity, quality and diversity of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) people in films released by the seven major motion picture studios during the 2017 calendar year.” Now, if you’re a TV and film fan, you are likely tired of the sheer quantity of gay characters.

Oh, GLAAD is here to tell you, it’s not enough. Specifically, they are upset with how few transgender characters made the cut in major motions pictures in 2017. They are also demanding more “LGBTQ” characters and eventually insist that half of all films depict someone represented in that cluster of letters.

The problem is, the math doesn’t add up. They want half of all films to contain what amounts to 2 percent of the population.

But it gets worse than that. This doesn’t account for something Hollywood would never want to address: The ick-factor.

Straight men who watch movies are repulsed by the sight of two men kissing. In fact, women are, as well. It’s politically incorrect to note this fact, but gay male relationships drive away audiences like little else.

Marc Cherry, best known as the brains behind the hit show Desperate Housewives, created a sitcom prior to that called “The Crew.” I was invited by Cherry to the pilot taping of the show.

Sitcom pilots often struggle to get a full audience, and The Crew was no exception. So the studio bused in additional audience members.

It turns out, all the writers on The Crew were gay. The entire midsection of the audience were invited guests. It wasn’t long before my wife and I realized we were surrounded by gay men. And on that day, of all days, the audience they bused in were all military. So in the middle, about 40 gay men along with my wife and me. On the outside about 100 military. Much to my surprise, it became a study of humor. What the men in the middle laughed at was quite different than what the men on the edges found humorous.

The show featured a gay character – the smart one of the group. A common theme in Hollywood.

As the initial season wore on, a heterosexual couple started to get traction with the audience. A friend of creator Marc Cherry told me he had no desire to write about that relationship. That he’d rather kill the show.

And that he did.

Now, we see gay characters all over the television landscape. Even where they make absolutely no sense at all. Victoria, a well-produced British series shown on Amazon Prime, has a gay character. This is a show set in the royal palace in the 1800’s. Really? Even though Victoria is one of the cleaner series out there, one episode featured a gay male kiss. The ick-factor.

Shortly after, one of the gay characters was killed off.

In the Netflix miniseries “Godless,” set in the old west, a town of women features a lesbian couple. Of course, the smartest of the group is one of the lesbians. But again, it’s treated as perfectly normal.

Besides the absurdity of gay characters in these settings, many families turn these shows off immediately. The numbers game does not work in Hollywood’s favor.

Regardless, Hollywood has been force feeding America gay characters for decades. And for the most part, America has tolerated it. In some ways, they’ve embraced it.

But that isn’t enough. And GLAAD is here to make sure you get more. Far more. They have specific demands, as they have in the past. If they are met, and they most likely will be, they won’t be satisfied. They never are.