https://www.westernjournal.com/wc/usain-bolt-loses-relay-medal-in-doping-case-ruining-perfect-string-of-olympic-golds/
['Todd Windsor', 'Bryan Chai', 'Dave Kovaleski', 'Joe Setyon']
2018-05-31 10:56:15-07:00
Usain Bolt loses relay medal in doping case, ruining perfect string of Olympic golds
 
Usain Bolt’s string of “triple gold” perfection in the Olympics has come to an end — and it’s not his fault.

“The Fastest Man Alive” was flawless in the Summer Games, winning gold medals in the 100-meters, the 200-meters and the 4×100-meter relay at three consecutive Olympics (2008, 2012 and 2016).

But one of his Jamaican teammates — sprinter Nesta Carter — was retroactively disqualified from the 2008 relay in Beijing because of a positive doping test that wasn’t discovered until eight years later.

The International Olympic Committee re-examined the Bejing samples in 2016, and Carter tested positive for the stimulant methylhexaneamine.

Jamaica was stripped of its relay title.

TRENDING: Browns player promises big gift to fans if Cavs win NBA Finals

Why is everyone stripped of their medals because of the stupidity of one teammate #UsainBolt — Johnny Dee (@DeeJohnny720) May 31, 2018

Carter took his case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Switzerland, but the judging panel dismissed his appeal Thursday.

Do you think it's fair for Usain Bolt to lose his gold medal over this? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Wildcard updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out.

The panel said it “could not accept any of the arguments raised by Nesta Carter contending that the test results should be ignored or the IOC (disciplinary) decision should otherwise be overturned for certain alleged failures.”

Jamaica had a world-record time of 37.10 seconds in Beijing as Carter ran the opening leg and Bolt took the baton third. Their teammates were Michael Frater and Asafa Powell.

The 2008 gold medal will now go to Trinidad and Tobago, with Japan being upgraded to silver and Brazil to bronze.

The IOC reanalysis program, which uses new and more accurate tests on samples stored since the 2008 and 2012 Games, has resulted in dozens of positive tests for banned substances and numerous athlete disqualifications.

This is the only one involving Jamaica.

Bolt discussed Carter’s case with the BBC in 2017, saying, “I am not happy about it.”

RELATED: Twinkle toes: ‘Dancing with the Stars’ opts for all-athlete cast in new season

However, he said, “I have no power over this anymore. You can’t get too angry about something that you can’t really change.”

Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.