https://townhall.com/tipsheet/amyfurr/2018/05/30/after-arrest-of-uk-activist-tommy-robinson-dutch-mp-warns-the-lights-of-freedom-are-going-out-n2485662
['Amy Furr', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
After Arrest of UK Activist Tommy Robinson, Dutch MP Warns: ‘The Lights of Freedom Are Going Out’
 
In a video released Monday, Dutch MP Geert Wilders called the arrest of outspoken British activist and Islam critic Tommy Robinson an “absolute disgrace.”

“Freedom of speech is being violated all over Europe and also in Britain. The lights of freedom are going out. Islam critics are taken to court, jailed or targeted with fatwa’s. The authorities try to silence us. However, Islamists are pampered, protected and defended. And that is totally unacceptable,” he said.

The video statement comes after Robinson was arrested Friday on suspicion of breach of peace while filming alleged child grooming gang members as they entered the Leeds Crown Court.

Wilders also said that he and his supporters will continue to be outspoken about crimes committed against Europeans and that he will do whatever it takes to protect the innocent.

“We will continue speaking the truth about Islam and horrendous crimes like rape, genital mutilation, honor killings and terrorism. For we protect our own people. Whatever the price may be,” he stated.

“That is why I stand here in solidarity with Tommy Robinson. Britain used to be a bastion of freedom of speech. Today, its authorities are behaving like North Korea and Saudi Arabia! I am here on behalf of millions, in the Netherlands, in Europe, and also in Britain. And in their name I say: We will no longer be silent! Our future is at stake, and we will protect it. Free Tommy Robinson! Release him from jail today! Restore freedom of speech and stop gagging the people.”

European MP Gerard Batten tweeted about the arrest on Friday.

“What kind of police state have we become?” He wrote.

Radio host Rush Limbaugh also commentedTuesday, stating that Robinson is labeled as “far right” because he is against open borders.

“What’s happening in the UK… They’re a way ahead of us in terms of open borders and the destruction of their culture. They have permitted it. It’s gotten to the point now… if I’m reading some of these things right, they have lost control,” he said.

“The immigrants are actually now in positions of power to actually determine policy, and they are enforcing authoritarian, autocratic policies.”

Apetitiontitled ‘Free Tommy Robinson’ has so far received almost 500,000 signatures.

“Tommy Robinson has been arrested and jailed for reporting on Muslim grooming gangs. A job that he chooses to do with no regard for his own safety, informing the public of all the wrongs committed in the name of Allah. Fighting against adversity and reporting on issues that our mainstream media are too afraid to speak of,” the petition reads.

“Tommy is raising issues that are affecting all of our communities, and that are being swept under the carpet and hidden from the public. Its time we stand together, stand strong, and stand by his side.”

On Sunday, Protestors gatheringoutside Downing Street in London called for Robinson’s release, holding signs and banners that read “#FreeTommy” and “Make Britain Great Again.”