https://www.westernjournal.com/ct/msnbc-admits-landslide-poll-results-americans-say-muellers-got-nothing/#respond
['Cillian Zeal', 'Joe Saunders', 'Benjamin Arie']
2018-05-29 08:23:00-07:00
MSNBC Admits Landslide Poll Results… Americans Say Mueller’s Got Nothing
 
Robert Mueller’s fishing expedition has been going on for more than a year. Now, Americans are telling MSNBC — much to the network’s consternation — that it may be time for Mueller to put up the “Gone Fishin'” sign on the special counsel’s door.

A new poll released by MSNBC shows a majority of Americans think Mueller’s investigation is a “witchhunt,” much to the surprise of the people at the network.

“The Robert Mueller investigation has yielded many indictments and convictions, but a recent poll shows most Americans believe Donald Trump’s pronouncement that the Russia probe is a baseless ‘witchhunt,'” the network said as they announced the poll, which merited a panel discussion anchored by Joy Reid as to “why the president is controlling the narrative on Mueller’s Russia investigation.”

No, seriously. They really did say that.

According to the survey, only 41 percent of people believe the Mueller investigation has uncovered crimes, compared to 59 percent who believe that it hasn’t.

TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover

Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation has yielded many indictments and convictions, but a recent poll shows most Americans believe President Trump’s pronouncement that the Russia probe is a 'baseless witch hunt." https://t.co/Sx4JQdIcuW — MSNBC (@MSNBC) May 26, 2018

That’s an 18-point difference. There are Democrats in San Francisco who don’t win by that much.

MSNBC, of course, is aghast. The investigation has uncovered crimes, they say! Which is technically true. But what sort of crimes?

Do you think the Mueller investigation will uncover any wrongdoing by President Trump? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out.

Only one major figure thus far — Michael Flynn, the former national security adviser to Trump — has pleaded guilty to the crime of making false statements to investigators. This conviction doesn’t seem to point to Russian collusion during the campaign, mostly because Flynn wasn’t even involved with the campaign at any significant level.

Oh yes, there’s George Papadopoulos, the low-level staffer whose drunken ramblings are the basis for so many conspiracy theories. He also made false statements to investigators — and still, no evidence of collusion with the Russians.

So, what are we going on now? Mueller, who was hired to investigate Russian meddling in the 2016 election, now seems to be focusing on a non-disclosure agreement with a porn star who’s hired a wonderfully self-promoting lawyer. That’s what our taxpayer dollars are being spent on.

Former President Richard Nixon was one of the most secretive men to have ever commandeered the Oval Office, and in an era long before the internet or electronic records were normally kept. A little over two years after a “third-rate burglary,” a glassy-eyed Nixon was on the tube telling America that he would resign the office of the presidency at noon tomorrow, at which time Vice President Gerald Ford etc., you know the drill.

By that time, Attorney General John Mitchell, White House Chief of Staff H.R. Haldeman, domestic affairs assistant John Ehrlichman, political affairs specialist Charles Colson and Nixon campaign lawyer G. Gordon Liddy had been indicted or pleaded guilty. White House counsel John Dean had started cooperating with the prosecution, and the vice president had resigned due to unrelated charges uncovered in the course of the investigation. The point is, the White House and president had been very clearly linked to the burglary as well as other sundry violations of the law.

Love him or hate him, we can all agree on this: Donald J. Trump is the least discreet man to have ever held the office of the presidency, as his Twitter feed can attest to.

RELATED: NYT Lies About Trump Crowd Size, Then Admits Crowd Was 550% Bigger Than It Said

More than a year after Mueller started looking into links between the Trump campaign and Russia, no collusion (which isn’t even a crime) or conspiracy (which is) with Russia or Russian actors has been definitively uncovered by the special counsel. This, may I add, is the work they were actually empaneled to do.

So far, the “convictions,” such as they stand, involve Flynn and a low-level campaign aide. Charges have been filed against Trump’s former campaign manager, Paul Manafort — a guy Trump liked so much that he fired him before the bananas in his office could even turn yellow. The Russia investigation seems to have taken a backseat to focusing on a payment made to a pornographic actress. This is all with unprecedented surveillance from the FBI, which may have included moles in the president’s campaign.

Now, are we to expect that Nixon couldn’t cover up a third-rate burglary, but Trump — the man who tweets out every Big Mac he eats — has been able to conceal a Kremlin plot from the overzealous eyes of American intelligence? Is this really what MSNBC and Joy Reid want us to believe?

Yes, there have been convictions, albeit of the most inconsequential sort. America seems to be saying what I am: Wake me up when the fishing expedition catches something — anything — of vital importance.

Until then, this entire investigation has been a waste of airtime and money.

Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.