https://radio.foxnews.com/2018/05/30/benson-and-harf-05-30-18/
['Fox News Radio', 'Todd Starnes Show']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
FBN Host Maria Bartiromo & Comedian Jimmy Failla
 
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Barr Backlash! President Trump on Wednesday spoke out for the first time about ABC's cancellation of "Roseanne," knocking the network for not apologizing in other instances where people have made "horrible" anti-Trump comments on ABC. "Bob Iger of ABC called Valerie Jarrett to let her know that 'ABC does not tolerate comments like those' made by Roseanne Barr," Trump tweeted Wednesday. "Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC. Maybe I just didn't get the call?'" ABC on Tuesday cancelled Barr's popular reboot of "Roseanne" shortly after she posted a racist tweet targeting Jarrett, a former top Obama White House aide. In a now-deleted tweet, Barr described Jarrett as like "the muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby." Jimmy Failla -- Comedian, author and head writer for Kennedy on Fox Business weighs in.

Go Gowdy Go! Rep. Trey Gowdy has spent the better part of the past 15 hours poking holes in President Trump's dubious trial balloon about a spy in his campaign. Gowdy, who was one of the few people to get briefed on the situation last week, told Fox News on Tuesday night that the briefing vindicated the FBI: "I am even more convinced that the FBI did exactly what my fellow citizens would want them to do when they got the information they got, and that it has nothing to do with Donald Trump." Then Wednesday morning on CBS, Gowdy, a former U.S. attorney who is retiring from Congress this year, rebuked Trump's use of the term "spying" to describe his law enforcement colleagues. " 'Undercover,' 'informant,' 'confidential informant' -- those are all words I'm familiar with," Gowdy said. "I've never heard the term 'spy' used." Guy & Marie Discuss.

Plus: FBN Star Maria Bartiromo talks Starbucks.

Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Benson and Harf Show LIVE Monday through Friday 6-8 pm Eastern! Find out more at BensonAndHarf.com