http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/21/tomi-lahren-final-thoughts-gun-control-after-texas-school-shooting
['Tomi Lahren']
2018-05-21 00:00:00
Tomi Lahren: 'Knee-Jerk Reactions' on Gun Control 'Never the Solution'
 
In the wake of tragedy there is often a knee jerk reaction to strip away rights but this will never be the solution. It’s time for Final Thoughts.

The community of Santa Fe, Texas is still processing the horrific massacre that left 10 people, 8 students and 2 teachers, dead. Now is a time for healing, for togetherness, for prayer. It’s not the time to use this tragedy as a political prop for gun control but the left can’t help themselves and … to paraphrase Rahm Emanuel … will never let a good tragedy to go to waste.

No one wants to see bullets tear through classrooms but the cold hard truth is, not a single proposed gun control measure could have stopped what happened at Santa Fe High School. The shooter, whose name is not worth mentioning, used a shotgun and a revolver he took from his father. He didn’t use a so-called “assault rifle” he didn’t legally purchase the guns he used, he is underage. He also had a pressure cooker and pipe bombs. Please tell me what gun laws would have prevented this? So why then is the left so quick to blame this on law-abiding gun owners and the NRA? What do we have to do with this? Nothing.

The fact is, if you’re demanding more gun control you are admitting the hundreds of relevant gun laws on the books don’t work. How would coming up with one or 1,000 more solve the problem? It wouldn’t. But they know that, they aren’t interested in a few more laws, they are interested in eliminating the Second Amendment altogether. That’s the real goal. And even that would solve nothing.

Tomi Lahren to Conservatives, Trump Supporters: 'Don't Attach Yourself to Kanye'

'Made in USA' Used to Mean Something: Tomi Lahren Says Trump Must Act to Help Cattle Ranchers

You can seize all the guns you want but truth is, there will always be evil in this world and evil people will always find evil ways to carry out evil things which is the EXACT reason many of us choose to be armed. It’s not about how much we love our guns, it’s how much we love the people we protect with those guns.

Yet, every time something like this happens, that’s the first and only solution the left can come up with- take away rights because it sounds good and makes you feel like you’ve done something when in reality, the only thing it would do is leave sane and safe Americans defenseless.

The only way to make sure our kids and families are safe is for good guys to have guns. Imagine how much worse things could have been at Santa Fe High School if the school resource officer and Texas Department of Public Safety trooper hadn’t been there, armed, and able to engage the shooter. The same can be said about Mark Dallas, the school resource officer who stopped a school shooting in Dixon, Illinois last week.

These safety measures are the way to protect kids at school. That’s why we have armed guards at some of our banks, jewelry stores, and red carpet events. So why don’t all of our schools have the same?

We also need to look at our families. Guns have been around for hundreds of years, but we’ve seen a spike in routine mass shootings like this in the last 20. So what changed? The American family. The rise of absentee parents and the breakdown of the American family has absolutely contributed to this epidemic.

I get it, it’s easy to go after guns, that’s the low-hanging fruit. It’s much harder to take a look at society and admit where we’ve gone wrong. It has nothing to do with the Second Amendment.

Those are my final thoughts. From LA, God Bless and take care.

Tomi Lahren: Great Week for Trump, Bad Week for Iran, 'Fake News Media' & Obama's Legacy

Tomi Lahren on Jerusalem Embassy Dedication: Trump 'Delivered on His Promise'