https://townhall.com/tipsheet/katiepavlich/2018/05/31/classy-leftist-comedian-samantha-bee-calls-ivanka-a-c-n2486006
['Katie Pavlich', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas']
2018-05-31 00:00:00
Keeping it Classy: Leftist Comedian Samantha Bee Calls Ivanka a 'Feckless C***'
 
Just 24-hours after Roseanne was fired by ABC for making a derogatory statement about former Obama advisor Valerie Jarrett (which she then apologized for), leftist comedian Samantha Bee included a segment on her TBS show in which she called current White House senior advisor Ivanka Trump a "feckless c*nt." Why? Because she dared to post a photo holding her son.

"You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c*nt!” Bee said.







My ♥? A post shared by Ivanka Trump (@ivankatrump) on May 27, 2018 at 9:07am PDT

Meanwhile, Bee predicatbly got the facts wrong about the government separating children at the border and the Trump administration "losing kids."

First, the government isn't losing kids. Instead, parents or sponsors of children who are also in the country illegally (yes, ICE and HHS place unaccompanied minors with parents who are already living in the U.S. illegally) aren't answering the phone when ICE agents call to do a follow up. Therefore, they can't be officially accounted for after leaving ICE or HHS custody. This doesn't mean they are lost, it simply means illegal aliens already in the country are avoiding federal immigration authorities. Further, this a policy from the Obama administration that has been continued by the Trump administration.

“We do place children here with people or parents who are here illegally," a senior White House official said this week. “We are not able to deny placement [of children] to people in the country illegally.”

Second, just like when American citizens are arrested for crimes, children are not taken to adult detention or jail facilities. Instead, they are separated from the offending parent. In the case of the current border crisis, the separation takes place when an adult enters the country illegally and is arrested. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has made it clear the Department of Justice will enforce immigration law, which includes prosecuting everyone who enters the country illegally. This is, after all, a federal crime.

But hey, why get the facts straight when hurling the worst epithets at Ivanka Trump is easier?