https://www.westernjournal.com/ct/scorching-ad-pelosi-defend-ms-13/#respond
['Joe Saunders', 'Cillian Zeal', 'Benjamin Arie']
2018-05-30 09:07:48-07:00
Scorching GOP Ad Shows Pelosi Defend MS-13 as Gang Beats Victim in Background
 
This should be giving Democrats nightmares.

A Republican ad for the midterm elections unveiled Tuesday is aiming directly at Democrats soft-spot for savagely criminal illegal aliens, and using the words of the party’s leader in the U.S. House of Representatives to do it.

And it’s one truth that really hurts.

The ad features video of California Democrat Nancy Pelosi criticizing President Donald Trump for referring to members of the MS-13 gang as “animals,” interspersed with television news coverage of MS-13’s brutal crimes.

Pelosi, who doesn’s come across as very bright even on her best days, ends up looking particularly pitiful in the course of the one-minute ad.

TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover

“When the president of the United States says these aren’t people, these are animals, you have to wonder does he not believe in the spark of divinity?” she says.

Actually, you have to wonder if Pelosi believes the words that come out of her own mouth.

Check it out here:

Leave aside the philosophical hypocrisy of a Democrat blathering about a human “spark of divinity” while championing the “right” to abort unborn children.

On a logical level, what Pelosi was doing was using a deliberate deception by the mainstream media about what Trump actually said during a May 16 meeting with California law enforcement officials to smear his remarks as referring to all immigrants instead of the merciless killers of MS-13.

Even worse, from a purely political point of view, Pelosi was taking a side most normal Americans disagree with, according to at least one poll.

Could ads like this help Republicans hold onto the House? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out.

In short, Pelosi’s opinion wasn’t only morally abhorrent (which is pretty standard for the modern Democrat Party ), it’s also politically idiotic.

And that’s what makes the ad work so well.

As conservative commentator Ed Morrissey wrote on the website Hot Air:

RELATED: CNN Interview Goes Wrong as Deported Illegal’s Wife Wrecks Media Narrative

“Overall, Americans split 56/44 in support of using an ‘animals’ metaphor. The question splits young voters (under 35) down the middle, but all other age demos have solid majorities finding ‘animals’ a fair description of MS-13. It’s not popular among Hispanic voters, but only narrowly at 47/53, surprisingly. There’s almost no difference between urban, suburban, and rural voters on this question, all of which back it with majorities. Independents find it fair on a 55/45 basis, while only 25% of Republicans consider it unfair.

‘In other words, getting into semantic games over the use of a metaphor doesn’t look like a winner for Pelosi & Co, which is why the RNC rushed out its first attack ad on the subject. It won’t be the last, since Pelosi’s argument only wins significantly among African-Americans (35/65) and Democrats, but only 41/59. Pelosi’s argument isn’t even a slam dunk inside the fold, let alone outside of it.”

So, with the prospect of Pelosi returning as speaker of the House if the Democrats win back control of the lower chamber in the November midterms, every competitive congressional district is likely to see ads like this.

And that should mean some very uneasy nights for Democrats in the months ahead. Because this truth really does hurt — badly.

Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.