https://www.westernjournal.com/wc/watch-literal-wild-goose-chase-steals-the-show-at-angels-tigers-game/
['Joe Setyon', 'Bryan Chai', 'Todd Windsor', 'Dave Kovaleski']
2018-05-31 09:56:48-07:00
Watch: Literal wild goose chase steals the show at Angels-Tigers game
 
The Tigers may have won on Wednesday, but it was a goose who stole the show at Comerica Park in Detroit.

In the midst of a sixth-inning rain delay during a game between the Tigers and Angels, a goose made its way onto the field and decided it didn’t particularly want to leave, at least, not immediately.

The scene on the field descended into chaos, as the goose kept flying around, landing intermittently on the outfield grass or infield dirt, while the grounds crew tried to chase it down. However, they didn’t have any luck, and the bird just kept on flapping its way around the field and leading the grounds crew on a literal wild goose chase.

Eventually, the bird decided it was time to go, so it flew up into the air and attempted to make its way out of the stadium. “There he goes. He gone. In cruise control now,” the Fox Sports West announcer said.

That was when disaster struck.

TRENDING: Browns player promises big gift to fans if Cavs win NBA Finals

The goose crashed into one of the video boards on the facing of the third deck and plummeted down into the seats.

Thankfully, a nearby veterinarian quickly attended to the goose.

“I knew there was a reason he couldn’t fly out,” the veterinarian, Roach, said, per USA Today.

“I ran down there and told people, ‘Hey, I’m a veterinarian,'” Roach said. “They let me through and I was able to grab him.”

The Tigers later said the goose was fine and had been released out of the stadium.

We've been informed the goose is healthy and has been released outside the ballpark. #RallyGoose — Detroit Tigers (@tigers) May 31, 2018

Are you glad that this goose turned out to be OK? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Wildcard updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out.

“My wife would have had a heart attack if she saw that,” Tigers manager Ron Gardenhire said after the game, per ESPN. “We’re glad the goose is OK. That was not fun to watch when they were chasing him around and he went into the stands; that was scary.”

The goose may have even sparked a rally, as the Tigers scored five runs in the bottom of the sixth inning and won the game 6-1.

RELATED: 18-year-old switch pitcher has MLB scouts salivating

“I don’t know,” Gardenhire said when asked if the goose had helped spur his team on to victory. “We broke up the goose eggs, OK.”

It was a happy ending to a story that could have ended with a seriously injured or dead goose, which nobody would have wanted. Instead, there was no harm, no fowl.

Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.