https://townhall.com/tipsheet/katiepavlich/2018/05/30/gowdy-no-there-wasnt-a-spy-in-trumps-campaign-and-the-fbi-informant-was-doing-his-job-n2485621
['Katie Pavlich', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Gowdy: Trump Shouldn't Be Worried, the Informant Connected to His Campaign Was Targeting Russia
 
House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy, who announced his upcoming retirement earlier this year, is pushing back against President Trump's assertions there was a spy placed inside his 2016 campaign in an effort to target him. Further, he's defending the FBI's use of an informant on the campaign and says they were doing their job.

"Donald Trump was never the target of the investigation, he isn't the current target of the investigation," Gowdy said during an interview with Fox News Tuesday evening. "I am even more convinced the FBI did exactly what my fellow citizens would want them to do when they got the information they got and that it has nothing to do with Donald Trump."

"I think when the President finds out what happened he's going to be not just fine, he's going to be glad we have an FBI that took seriously what they heard. He was never the target, Russia was the target," Gowdy said.

Watch the latest video at foxnews.com

During another interview with CBS Wednesday morning, Gowdy was asked about President Trump's use of the word "spy."

"That's not a term I ever used in the criminal justice system. Undercover, informant, confidential information, those are all words I'm familiar with. I've never heard the term 'spy' used," Gowdy said. "That's an espionage term not a law enforcement term."

"I’ve never heard the term ‘spy’ used. I have not (seen any evidence of that). Informants are used all day, every day by law enforcement." @TGowdySC on @CBSThisMorning pic.twitter.com/jcIiaG8CiB — Norah O'Donnell???? (@NorahODonnell) May 30, 2018

Revelations of a spy in the Trump campaign came after the New York Times published a lengthy story detailing the work of an FBI information during the 2016 presidential election.