https://pagesix.com/2018/05/30/harvey-weinstein-indicted-on-rape-charges/
['May']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Harvey Weinstein indicted on rape charges
 
Harvey Weinstein was indicted on sex-crime charges Wednesday, hours after the disgraced movie mogul said he wouldn’t testify before a grand jury.

The grand jury voted to indict Weinstein on charges of first- and third-degree rape, and first-degree criminal sexual act, the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office said.

The charges are the same that were filed by cops last week when Weinstein, 66, surrendered to face arrest in a pair of alleged sex attacks in Manhattan in 2004 and 2013.

“This indictment brings the defendant another step closer to accountability for the crimes of violence with which he is now charged,” DA Cyrus Vance Jr. said.

Vance — who said an investigation of Weinstein “remains active and ongoing” — also blasted what he called Weinstein’s “recent assault on the integrity of the survivors and the legal process.”

“We are confident that when the jury hears the evidence, it will reject these attacks out of hand,” Vance added.

Vance has in recent months faced fierce criticism over his 2015 decision not to prosecute Weinstein for allegedly groping a model to whom Weinstein apologized on a secret recording made by cops.

Earlier Wednesday, a statement from Weinstein’s representatives said he decided not to appear before the grand jury “on the advice of his attorneys,” including veteran defense lawyer Benjamin Brafman.

​​In a statement, Brafman said Weinstein “intends to enter a plea of Not Guilty and vigorously defend against these unsupported allegations that he strongly denies.​”

“We will soon formally move to dismiss the indictment and if this case actually proceeds to trial, we expect Mr. Weinstein to be acquitted,” he added.

More than 80 women have publicly accused Weinstein of sexual misconduct ranging from harassment to rape.

He has denied engaging in any “non-consensual sexual conduct.”

Related Video 0:31 Harvey Weinstein tight-lipped while leaving court on May 25, 2018