http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/janverhoeff/2018/05/31/define-trump-marketing-for-massive-profit-n2486081
['Jan Verhoeff', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas', 'Chris Reeves']
2018-05-31 00:00:00
Define Trump Marketing For Massive Profit
 
When I hear the mass media talk about President Trump, I have to laugh at how wrong they are on the processes. He isn’t the mogul they presume he is, he’s simply an incredible marketer. He’s learned that he isn’t marketing a topic, a project, or a program. He’s marketing himself. And he knows how to do that successfully.

He knows that it doesn’t matter what you think of him, as long as he’s front and center in your world. The more you talk about him, the better he likes it. If you’re putting him down, calling him names, making fun of him, he doesn’t care. He cares that you’re talking about him. And thank you! Keep it up!

Social Media Centric Marketing Plan

Twitter and Facebook may be liberal machines, but they’re Trump-o-meters. Incredible levels of market prestige have gone into the process of creating a media ballast between mass media and social media. In many cases it’s been an absolute failure, but Trump is winning. Trump wins because he doesn’t care if you delete his comments, or demoralize his message, you’re still sharing the message. The more you share it, even if you’re disparaging this message, the more he’s seen in social media. The more attention he gets in mass media. The key point, he doesn’t have to pay you to talk about him if you’re beating him up verbally, you’ll do that for free.

Networking the Marketing Program

Active resistance from the left became active campaigning on the right. We didn’t have to focus our energy on winning, all we had to do was focus on being seen, being visible, and being the center of attention. It was so easy… we had Hillary Clinton promoting Donald Trump every time she campaigned, in every piece of literature, on every campaign message, and in every way possible. She convinced everyone through her negative communication that Trump was the man for the job, because he wasn’t wasting his time talking about her. He was busy talking about how GREAT this country was going to be when HE was President. He was right. He’s still right. He’s accomplished some amazing great things. And he’s done it through the constant barrage of hatred and animosity from the left, the mass media, and the hateful rhetoric of Hillary Clinton.

Hidden Facts and Numbers Revealed

A significant part of Trump’s win were the number of people who showed up to vote for Trump, because they wanted a change that would make a difference and protect their country. Trump promised those outcomes, the people believed him, and they showed up to vote for him. He pushed his agenda forward, by ignoring the ignorance and idiocy of the leftist media, the Democrat plat form, and the anti-Trumpers who pushed him to the back of the poll results. He didn’t care what the numbers said, he knew his base.

How can YOU Apply Trump Marketing for Profitable Outcomes?

To start with, you can believe that you’re created for a purpose. Know your purpose, and understand that God has place you here for such a purpose as this, and then do your job. Do what you’re sent here to do. Ignore what others think. What they think literally doesn’t mean a thing to you, because you’re the only one who matters, makes a difference, or can change the outcome of your situation. You need to know that there’s no way in the world you’re going to fail. That isn’t an option. Any remote indication that you don’t WIN, is not a failure, but a lesson. Learn your lesson and move on. Win the next round.

Realize that ultimately you have nothing to lose. You’re in this game to win it, so you win. You never fail. You win. That’s what you do. That’s who you are. And that’s why you’re here.

Trump believes in himself. He’s the greatest. He’s the best. He’s worthy of confidence, encouragement, and motivation. He knows he’s not second best. He’s top notch.

What do you believe?

What’s your takeaway?

Play the game to win it.

Don’t take no for an answer.

Know how great you are.

Know your team is the best team ever.

Count on your team to carry your message.

Don’t stop. Don’t EVER stop.

Know the end game, and get there!

That’s it. That’s all you have to know, and you’ve been taught by one of the best marketers on the planet, who is the biggest influencer in the world. Don’t lag behind, he’ll take you with him if you get on board and do what needs to be done. Do it!

American Exceptionalism is the most significant single part of business development in this nation. Because America puts God first, and leads with prayer to influence the outcome of the winning game, we’re winning. You can do the same with your business. Focus on God, stay patriotic, and build your business for profit.

Let’s do this!