https://townhall.com/tipsheet/mattvespa/2018/05/30/as-the-left-attack-trump-this-pac-is-mobilizing-the-next-generation-of-conservative-leaders-n2485707
['Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
As The Left Attacks Trump, This PAC Is Mobilizing The Next Generation Of Conservative Leaders
 
The Left is winning the generation war. The millennial generation is one of the most liberal and Democratic-driven voter demographics ever. Nearly half view socialism in a favorable light. Demography is destiny, except that it’s not. The media today is inundated with this narrative, surmising that a "blue wave" is inevitable for the 2018 midterms and beyond. But is Republicans' future really as dim as many in the media would have you think? No. It’s not. It’s never over, something Democrats and Republicans should keep in kind concerning elections. Everything is based on public opinion and in the words of columnist George Will—it’s all shiftable sand.

While Democrats seem to focus their energy and resources at the top, mainly attacking our current president, Republican groups are mobilizing and preparing the next generation of leaders. The Maverick PAC is one such group.

Maverick PAC, or "MavPAC" as the group has been coined, brings together young professionals from the private, public and political sectors. In its 15 years of existence, MavPAC has developed over 20 chapters across the country. These chapters are charged with developing local business and political leaders who want to begin getting engaged in the political process by raising and bundling funds for up-and-coming, business-friendly candidates. It's clear MavPAC is developing a serious infrastructure, provided they contributed $140,000 in the 2016 election and are projected to give around $200,000 to candidates in this cycle.

In addition to the infrastructure-building, MavPAC also facilitates opportunities for these future leaders to meet with current leaders of today. Vice President Mike Pence, former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, former Governor Jeb Bush, and Karl Rove are just a few of the names MavPAC has hosted at their events. Their premier, annual event, The Mavericks Conference, takes place this weekend in Austin, Texas. Senator Ted Cruz and Governor Greg Abbott are set to address the attendees, along with Representatives Michael McCaul (R-TX), Will Hurd (R-TX), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson, and Texas Land Commissioner George P. Bush.

It’ll also be a time to honor and recognize MavPAC's 2018 "Future 40" honorees, a group of individuals under the age of 40 who have impacted and made significant achievements in their respective sectors and communities:

Allie Brandenburger, Washington, DC De'On Collins, Texas Roy Milan Schultheis, Florida Audrey Henson, Florida Elijah Haahr, Missouri Kevin Levelle, Texas Bettina Inclan, Florida John Callahan, Texas Katie Behnke, Colorado Coco Pannell, Tennessee Jon Adams, Washington, DC Jessica Renier, California Deanna Ballard, North Carolina Jose Gonzales, Florida Gail Wilson, Washington, DC Emily Brewer, Virginia Juan Carlos Flores, Florida Ryan Williams, Washington, DC Kasdin Mitchell, Alabama Omar Qudrat, California Shannon Kendrick, Virginia Adam Jones, New York Shoshana Weissmann, New York Steven Llanes, New Jersey Chester Spellman, Florida Maralyn Beck, New Mexico Will Ritter, Virginia Dan Crenshaw, Texas Omari Faulkner, Virginia Nicole Gomez, Florida James Lloyd, Texas Ellen Troxclair, Texas Anand Shah, Washington, DC Alexander Gray, Florida Annie Lewis, Massachusetts MacKay Jimeson, Connecticut Gina Barr, Michigan Mike Huffstetler, New York Emma Nelson, Missouri Kathryn Ciano, Virginia

“Since its inception 15 years ago, Maverick PAC has built a network of successful young professionals who are focused on making a difference in business and politics. Our network has grown to more than 20 chapters and hundreds of members nationwide,” said Maverick PAC National Co-Chair Morgan Ortagus in a press release.

“As Maverick PAC continues to grow and become more influential, so too does our responsibility to provide a platform for the young professionals who are making a huge impact on business, government (local and federal), and their local community,” added Maverick PAC National Co-Chair Fritz Brogan.

Past class members include Turning Point USA's Charlie Kirk, Department of Justice Spokesperson Sarah Isgur Flores, The Washington Free Beacon’s Sonny Bunch, Rep. Jamie Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Rachel Hoff, who was the GOP’s first openly gay delegate on the platform committee, Ohio Treasurer and 2012 Senate candidate Josh Mandel, Cato Fellow Ilya Shapiro, and Fox News Contributor and U.S. News and World Report columnist Ashley Pratte.

Maverick PAC’s conference begins on June 1.