https://www.westernjournal.com/l/erin-coates/girl-thinks-puppy-belongs-to-family-friend-then-they-say-its-her-birthday-present/
['Erin Coates', 'Tia Starr', 'Carolyn Marie', 'Kayla Kunkel', 'Amanda Thomason', 'Casey Allen']
2018-05-31 10:13:11-07:00
Girl Thinks Puppy Belongs to Family Friend, Then They Say It’s Her Birthday Present
 
All Tatum wanted was a puppy of her very own. She had been begging her parents for years to bring a little fuzzy, furry friend into their family.

She even had the perfect name picked out for a future puppy: Winston.

“It’s been three years since my daughter first asked for a puppy,” Tatum’s mom said. “Every single time she walks by a little puppy, she says, ‘Look, Mom, it’s Winston!'”

With Tatum’s birthday quickly approaching, her mom knew exactly how to make Tatum’s puppy dreams come true.

“One week before her actual birthday, my good friend and her son helped us create the big surprise,” her mother said. “They posed as new dog owners of a sweet little poochon (poodle and bichon frise) puppy who they ‘named’ Winston.”

TRENDING: Mother Cries Tears of Joy After Daughter Who Went Missing 24 Years Ago is Found

A post shared by Bobbi (@manlikebobbi) on May 30, 2018 at 11:32am PDT

“We were eating dinner out and they came strolling by ‘unexpectedly’ while we ate.”

The mom’s friend explained that they got the adorable little puppy over the weekend. When Tatum hears that they named the puppy Winston, she is in complete shock.

“I heard you guys wanted to name your dog Winston and I loved it!” the friend said. Her son then asked Tatum if she wants to hold the dog, and of course, she eagerly took the puppy from his arms.

As she cradled the puppy in her arms, she marveled at how cute he is.

They continued to talk for a few minutes about the poochon in her arms, when her mom — who is recording the entire thing — said, “Hey Tatum, look at me.”

Tatum turns and her mom said, “Happy Birthday.”

It took a split second for the news to sink in; the puppy Tatum was holding actually belonged to her.

RELATED: Mom Tricks Little Girl Into Thinking She’s Adopting Guinea Pig, Puppy Comes Around Corner

“Oh my gosh!” she cried, unable to hold in the waterworks of happiness.

“He’s your Winston,” someone off camera said.

Tatum sat down and sobbed with pure joy over her birthday present, who was happily still sitting in her arms.

It’s clear that this little puppy will be well loved for its entire life by the little girl who got him as the perfect surprise.

Submit your story here, and subscribe to our best uplifting stories here.

Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.