http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/jimhuntzinger/2018/05/30/quotes-from-washington-adams-paine-mises-and-jfk-warning-us-about-the-loss-of-liberty-n2485680
['Jim Huntzinger', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas', 'Chris Reeves']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Quotes From Washington, Adams, Paine, Mises, And JFK, Warning Us About The Loss Of Liberty
 
While the authors of the Anti Federalist Papers held caution and opposition to the new constitution, they did hold much of a similar vision for the future of the compacted Colonies. “A confederacy of republics must be the establishment in America,” writes the Old Whig in the Anti Federalist No. 18. He continues,

“In this country perhaps we are possessed of more than our share of political virtue. If we will exercise a little patience and bestow our best endeavors on the business, I do not think it impossible, that we may yet form a federal constitution much superior to any form of government which has ever existed in the world.”

The father of Austrian economics, Ludwig von Mises, eloquently acknowledged this in 1922 when he wrote that:

"State interference in economic life, which calls itself “economic policy,” has done nothing but destroy economic life. Prohibitions and regulations have by their general obstructive tendency fostered the growth of the spirit of wastefulness."

Calvin Coolidge declares,

“The American Revolution represented the informed and mature convictions of a great mass of independent, liberty-loving, God-fearing people who knew their rights, and possessed the courage to dare to maintain them.”

But America was not without warning, as John Adams stated. If the citizens of the United States abandoned the freedom granted by the establishment of the Constitution then it would be “treason against the hopes of the world.” Additionally, President John F. Kennedy had prepared to issue a similar warning, only to be assassinated before he could deliver it. He was to tell us:

"We in this country, in this generation, are – by destiny rather than choice – the watchmen on the walls of world freedom. We ask, therefore, that we may be worthy of our power and responsibility, that we may exercise our strength with wisdom and restraint, and that we may achieve in our time and for all time the ancient vision of "peace on earth, good will toward men." That must always be our goal, and the righteousness of our cause must always underlie our strength. For as was written long ago: "except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.""

As history has shown again and again, tyranny is the most common state of government, and it continually creeps in if not kept in check by vigilance and reliance on the Divine. On Christmas Eve of 1776, George Washington was on the west bank of the Delaware River with only a few thousand soldiers freezing in the winter weather, and 1,500 of those men soon would be quitting because their enlistments were completed. The American Revolution had nearly all but ended in defeat as Washington had lost seven battles in a row. But instead of admitting defeat to tyrants, General Washington decided to take one last offensive; the now famous crossing of the Delaware. But before Washington had his beleaguered troops cross the river that night, he had read to them Thomas Paine’s The American Crisis:

"Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered; yet we have this consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. What we obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly: “Tis dearness only that gives everything its value. Heaven knows how to set proper price upon its goods; and it would be strange indeed, if so celestial an article as freedom should not be highly rated…”

History has always proven that governments work toward increasing their own power and decreasing the individual’s liberty. Our Founders understood this in principle, practice and from history, and Colonial Minister James Dana alerted, “You cannot have too jealous an eye on tyranny under every form; nor can your zeal be better employed than against the means of it.” Austrian Economist Hans-Hermann Hoppe brilliantly describes the purpose, but failure, of the State in its common and historical state:

"[The State] is supposed to produce justice, i.e., to uphold and enforce the law, but with the power to legislate the State can – and inevitably will – break the law and make law in its own favor and so produce instead injustice and moral corruption. And the State is supposed to protect the property of its subjects from foreign invasion, but with the power to tax its subjects it can – and inevitably will – expropriate the property of these subjects not, obviously enough, to protect them and their property, but to ‘protect’ itself and its expropriations against any so-called “invader,” foreign or domestic. As an “expropriating property protector,” i.e., as a fundamentally “parasitic” institution, the State can never help but will always hinder in the production of wealth and so lower capita incomes."

The Light of Liberty must be continually fought for; and when Americans can and do put their effort into business, this liberty produces prosperity.