https://nypost.com/2018/05/25/deadbeat-son-evicted-from-parents-home-says-hes-too-broke-to-move/
['May']
2018-05-25 00:00:00
Deadbeat son evicted from parents’ home says he’s too broke to move
 
The unemployed millennial who was sued by his parents for...

The unemployed millennial who has been ordered to pack up his belongings and vamoose from his parents’ home after they sued him says there’s one problem — he can’t afford moving boxes.

Freeloader Michael Rotondo, 30, was ordered by an Onondaga County judge to get out of the house in upstate Camillus by noon Friday.

His parents, Mark and Christina Rotondo, lowered the boom on their deadbeat son, who has been living with them rent-free for the past eight years, by suing him.

Michael, who has a young son, told The Post this week that he wanted three months to move out — or he’d appeal the judge’s ruling. But he cited a practical matter that he said prevents him from moving out.

“Mostly, I need to start packing my boxes so I can move,” he told Syracuse.com on Thursday.

“But I have to pay for the boxes, which might be a problem.”

Rotondo admitted Wednesday during an interview with CNN that he was jobless, but there’s at least one restaurant chain trying to change that.

In a statement on Facebook, Villa Italian Kitchen offered the man a “store-level job” and training at any one of its 250 locations across the country. “At Villa, we feel for millennials, across the board. It’s tough out there,” the restaurant wrote. “With that said . . . we’re offering you a store-level gig, complete with extensive training to get you up to speed, at any one of our 250 locations worldwide.”

The chain added, “We heard your parents offered you $1,100 to get out. We’ll do you one better. Literally, one. Offer from us is on the table for $1,101 to come join our team. Consider it a signing bonus. We gotchu, bud.”

Rotondo has been told that if he fails to move out and get a job by June 1, Onondaga County sheriff’s deputies could forcibly remove him.

“I’m aware that that’s how the ax falls,” he said Thursday. “I’m going to try to resolve this as civilly as possible.”

Speaking to CNN on Wednesday, Rotondo tried to downplay the notion that many people believe he’s the walking definition of an entitled millennial.

“I would say that I’m really not a member of that demographic that they’re speaking to,” Rotondo said, despite falling into the widely recognized age gap for millennials.

“I’m a very conservative person,” he added. “The millennials that they’re speaking to are very liberal in their ideology.”