http://www.townhall.com/notebook/bethbaumann/2018/05/28/liberal-columnist-slated-to-teach-antitrump-course-at-ivy-league-college-n2485088
['Beth Baumann', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas']
2018-05-28 00:00:00
Liberal Columnist Slated To Teach Anti-Trump Course At Ivy League College
 
Liberal Washington Post columnist E.J. Dionne is slated to teach an Anti-Trump undergraduate course at Harvard University during the 2018-2019 school year, Campus Reform reported.

About the Course

The course, called "Donald Trump and the Challenge to Liberal Democracy," is listed on the Harvard website with the following description:

Is liberal democracy in crisis? Has it always been in crisis?Until recently, liberal democracy was largely taken for granted in the West, and many saw it as the wave of the future around the globe. But over the last decade, it has come under challenge in unanticipated ways. Far-right parties gained ground in many countries, although recent elections in Europe suggest that they have plateaued and might even be in retreat. Donald Trump's election brought this conversation directly to American shores. This class will discuss the challenge to liberal democracy, with special reference to the United States, but also in comparative perspective. There will be particular attention to France, Britain, the Netherlands and Germany and also discussion of the similarities and differences between our time and the 1930s. We will discuss the economic, sociological, and cultural challenges to liberal democracy, and the obligations that fall upon those who would defend it.

About the Professor

E.J. Dionne has a long-standing background in liberal politics, based on his bio on the Washington Post website. He spent 14 years at the New York Times before moving to the Washington Post as a political reporter in 1990. Dionne has been a twice-weekly columnist at the Washington Post since 1993. He's currently a government professor at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. and a visiting professor at his alma mater, Harvard University. Dionne is also a senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution and a frequent commentator on politics for National Public Radio and MSNBC. He was formerly the vice president of the American Political Science Association in 2014-2015 and has authored seven books, all far left-leaning.

It's blatantly obvious that Dionne is strongly opposed to the Trump administration. Just look at some of these tweets:

My read of @danbalz's sober & thoughtful take:#Trump's lies, distortions & attacks on the #Mueller probe are aimed almost entirely at Republicans. He figures he can survive if the GOP stays supine & the base loyal. He's willing to tear the country apart.

https://t.co/cNEpo0GZVB — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 27, 2018

The risk of yielding to #Trump: "He is interested only in self-preservation no matter what the cost to the rule of law..every deviation from ordinary practice..will set a dangerous precedent without achieving more than a temporary reprieve."@RuthMarcushttps://t.co/O3CJVRhhkt — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 26, 2018

Our anthem says we're "the land of the free and the home of the brave." Freedom & bravery took a big hit today. All who love our country & our freedoms should reject the #NFL owners' shameful targeting of protesting players--and their spineless caving to #Trump's pressure. — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 23, 2018

Re #Trump White House officially doubling down on "animals" language:

Pronouncing whole categories of people as subhuman numbs a nation’s moral sense and, in extreme but, unfortunately, too many cases, becomes a rationale for collective cruelty.

More belowhttps://t.co/dkHGPHVcyh — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 21, 2018

Trump's "animals" comment and the numbing of our moral sense. My column: What’s not fake news is #Trump’s refusal to take responsibility for using words quite deliberately to enrage, degrade and divide. In doing so, he debases and dehumanizes all of us.https://t.co/dkHGPHVcyh — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 21, 2018

My column is on what we've learned:

(1) the Russia connection to #Trump World runs very deep.

(2)?Trump has made old-fashioned forms of influence-peddling more blatant.

(3) Trump will play as fast and loose with policy as he does with ethics & the truth.https://t.co/JShzj84bqQ — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 10, 2018

And, on top of his very anti-Trump stance, Dionne seems to think he has all conservatives and Republicans pegged:

Giuliani and Trump "have one objective" which is to say something "the Republican base can latch on to" that lets them think the Mueller probe is "a fraud" - @EJDionne pic.twitter.com/q0ATpQvwSO — TheBeat w/Ari Melber (@TheBeatWithAri) May 18, 2018

He even has a book titled One Nation Under Trump: A Guide for the Perplexed, the Disillusioned, the Desperate, and the Not-Yet Deported.

#Trump's opponents have created a mass movement for change and there are new ideas on the center/left & left. We discuss the way ahead in the new paperback of "One Nation After Trump" out this summer. You can preorder here & retweets are much appreciated.https://t.co/bBV1ICvW84 — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 26, 2018

The True Meaning of College

It's often said that college is the place for young adults to explore new ideas and grow as individuals. The most ironic aspect of Dionne's college is course is that it's a hardcore liberal professor teaching a hardcore liberal course. College campuses are known for being liberal cesspools. If colleges truly wanted to expose young people to new ideas, they would have a conservative professor teach a conservative course.

The idea of having a college class about the Trump presidency, while he's still in office, is flat out stupid. There's no way to adequately analyze President Trump's decisions and policies and the lasting impact they will or will not have.

Comparing America today to the 1930s is like comparing apples to oranges. We're able to gain understanding of our past because there has been significant amount of time to see the domino effect of a leader's decisions. Comparing those decisions and consequences to decisions that were made yesterday — or even last week — aren't comparable.

Analyzing history as it happens isn't just stupid, but it's dangerous. And it's one of the ways the left is brainwashing our youth.