https://radio.foxnews.com/2018/05/18/british-afternoon-tea-fit-for-royalty/
['Lilian Woo']
2018-05-18 00:00:00
British Afternoon Tea fit for Royalty
 
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

From the low-down on high tea to secrets of a great scone, Fox News's Lilian Huang Woo has treats and tidbits to help you turn out a Great British Celebration of your own.

LISTEN HERE:

Simple Strawberry Jam

Ingredients: 900g fruit (blackberries, plums, raspberries or strawberries), prepared weight 900g golden granulated sugar knob of butter

Put the fruit into a preserving pan or large heavy-based saucepan. For blackberries, add 50ml of water and 1½ tbsp of lemon juice; for plums (halved and stoned), use 150ml of water; for strawberries, add 3 tbsp of lemon juice (no water); and for raspberries, add nothing. Bring to the boil. Lower the heat. For blackberries, simmer for 15 minutes; for plums, simmer for 30-40 minutes; for raspberries, simmer for 2 minutes; for strawberries, simmer for 5 minutes. The fruit should be soft. Tip in the sugar, stir over a very low heat until the sugar has completely dissolved. Raise the heat, bring to a full rolling boil, then rapidly boil blackberries for 10-12 minutes, plums for 10 minutes, raspberries for 5 minutes or strawberries for 20-25 minutes - don't stir though - until the setting point of 105C is reached. Remove from the heat, skim off any excess scum, then stir a knob of butter across the surface (this helps to dissolve any remaining scum). Leave for about 15 mins so the fruit can settle. Pour into sterilised jars, label and seal.

Reprinted from Once Upon a Chef by Jennifer Segal with permission by Chronicle Books, 2018 Red, White & Blue Summer Berry Trifle

BERRY TRIFLES MAKE WONDERFUL (and patriotic) summer party desserts. Not only are they gorgeous, they feed a crowd and can be made in advance. The only drawback is that, with all their layers, they can be time-consuming to make from scratch. I save time by using high-quality store-bought ingredients, like crisp Savoiardi biscuits (a.k.a. crisp ladyfingers), cream cheese, and raspberry jam. The result is a dazzling, delicious trifle that can be made in 30 minutes. Use a deep, clear glass bowl or a footed glass trifle dish so the pretty layers can be seen. And don't worry if the layers look slightly uneven or if the layers mix a bitthat's the beauty of a trifle. You can also make the trifle in small glasses as individual parfaits. Serves 8 to 10 1 1/2 lb [680 g] strawberries, hulled and cut into 1/4_in [6-mm] slices 3/4 lb [340 g] raspberries 3/4 lb [340 g] blueberries 3/4 cup [225 g] seedless raspberry jam, best quality 1 1/2 cups [360 ml] cold heavy whipping cream 16 oz [455 g] cream cheese, at room temperature 1 3/4 cups [200 g] confectioners' sugar 1 tsp vanilla extract One 7-oz [200-g] package crisp ladyfingers (also called Savoiardi biscuits) Fresh mint, for garnish (optional) 1. Set aside a few of each berry for topping your finished trifle. 2. In a large bowl, heat the raspberry jam in the microwave for about 1 minute, or until hot and liquidy. Add the fresh berries and toss to coat. Let sit while you prepare the rest of the recipe, stirring occasionally. 3. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment (or beaters), whip the heavy cream until stiff peaks form. Set aside. 4. In another large bowl, use an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment (or beaters) to beat the cream cheese with the confectioners' sugar until smooth and creamy. Beat in the vanilla, then beat in a third of the whipped cream. Using a large rubber spatula, fold in the rest of the whipped cream until well combined (see Pro Tip). 5. Use a 9_in [23_cm] round trifle dish or glass bowl with a 14-cup [3.3-L] capacity. Line the bottom of the dish with a layer of ladyfingers, breaking into pieces as necessary. Follow with one-third of the berry-jam mixture (including one-third of the juices), then one-third of the cream cheese mixture. Add another layer of ladyfingers, berries, and cream, and then a third, ending with the cream; for the last layer of cream, leave a 1_in [2.5_cm] border around the edge showing the fruit beneath. Garnish with the reserved whole berries and mint (if using). Refrigerate for at least 8 hours or overnight before serving. heads up Be sure to plan ahead, as the trifle needs to sit in the fridge at least 8 hours before serving. sourcing savvy Savoiardi biscuits are crisp ladyfingers, usually sold in the packaged cookie section of the supermarket. Don't confuse them with the soft sponge cakelike ladyfingers from the bakerythose aren't nearly as good. pro tip Folding is a technique used to mix a light and airy ingredient, like whipped cream, into a heavier mixture, like sweetened cream cheese, without deflating the lighter mixture. To fold, place the heavier mixture in a bowl and top with the lighter mixture. Use a spatula to cut through the middle of the two mixtures down to the bottom of the bowl. Pull the spatula toward you, scooping up some of the heavier mixture. In one sweeping motion, fold the scooped up portion of the heavier mixture over the lighter mixture. Turn the bowl a quarter turn and repeat the motions, scraping the sides of the bowl occasionally, until the ingredients are well combined.

Follow Lilian Woo on Twitter: @LilianNY

Click HERE to listen to more FOX & Food podcasts