https://www.cnn.com/2018/05/29/health/pompeii-victim-crushed-rock-eruption-intl-trnd/index.html
['Gianluca Mezzofiore', 'Valentina Didonato']
2018-05-29 00:00:00
Skeleton of man fleeing Vesuvius is uncovered by archaeologists at Pompeii site
 
(CNN) A man managed to escape the first eruptive fury of Vesuvius in A.D. 79, only to be crushed beneath a block of stone hurled by an explosive volcanic cloud, new excavations at the site suggest.

Archeologists working at the ancient Roman city of Pompeii , Italy, found the man's remains almost 2,000 years after he died.

Stunning pictures from the scene show a skeleton pinned beneath the stone. The impact crushed the top of the man's body. His head might still be buried beneath the block of stone.

Photos: Pompeii houses restored Photos: Pompeii houses restored Frescoes are seen in the Criptoporticus Domus, one of six restored domus at U.N. World Heritage Site Pompeii, on Thursday, December 24, during the official opening to the public. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored A hallway in the Criptoporticus Domus. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored People explore the Fullonica Stephanus Domus. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored A detail of graffiti inside the Fullonica di Stephan's in Pompeii. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored Journalists take photos in the Casa di Paquius Proculus. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored People visit the Pacuius Proculus Domus. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored A floor covered with mosaics is seen inside the Pacuius Proculus Domus. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored A girl visits the Criptoporticus Domus. Hide Caption 8 of 8

Lesions on the skeleton's tibia are signs of a bone infection that probably hampered the man's escape attempt, archeologists said.

Nonetheless, the man, who was at least 30 years old, survived the first phase of the eruption and fled along an alley, probably limping because of his infection.

Read More