https://www.westernjournal.com/ct/nba-accidentally-orders-nra-finals-caps-gives-to-players-before-realizing-mistake/
['Joe Saunders', 'Cillian Zeal', 'Benjamin Arie']
2018-05-30 08:02:56-07:00
NBA Accidentally Orders ‘NRA Finals’ Caps, Gives to Players Before Realizing Mistake
 
Liberals might be howling, but this championship hat’s a winner.

After two nail-biting series that went the full seven games in the NBA conference finals, victory celebrations by the Cleveland Cavaliers and Golden State Warriors over the weekend were getting attention around the country from people who might never have watched a basketball game in their lives.

And it had nothing to do with the teams shooting on the court.

Thanks to the design of a commemorative cap for the occasion, which featured a team logo placed onto generic “NBA Finals” wording, it appeared to many social media users that the teams were headed to a championship series produced by the National Rifle Association.

Looks like the @NBA was smart to make generic Finals hats. All they had to do now is glue on the winning team's patch. Only problem is that it looks like 2018 NRA Finals lol. #NRA #LeBron pic.twitter.com/iOayXOTUCv — William Weske (@WilliamWeske) May 28, 2018

TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover

Easily triggered liberals, naturally, started crying foul.

Needs a redo! — Cicely Hand (@cichand) May 29, 2018

They’re overreacting, as usual, of course. The team’s logo just covers up the bottom of the “B,” making it look like a capital “R.”

Anyone but a “progressive” should be able to see the humor in the situation.

Would you want to buy an "NRA Finals" cap? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out.

The NBA is rife with loud-mouthed liberals — particularly Cavaliers star LeBron James — who’s better known for left-leaning clothing and accessories like preachy sneakers and virtue-signaling safety pins than Second Amendment-supporter hats.

Meanwhile, Warriors coach Steve Kerr is an outspoken critic of President Donald Trump. The mainstream media also gives him a platform to blast the NRA routinely, and often with the introductory note that Kerr’s father was killed by “gun violence.”

(The odd thing about that is that Kerr’s father was assassinated by Hezbollah killers while serving as president of American University in Beirut in 1984, according to USA Today. Only a hideously slanted mainstream media could blame that on “gun violence.” And besides, has anyone heard Steve Kerr denouncing radical Muslims lately?)

But while liberals were moaning, normal people were getting a kick out of the hats.

Very American , the membership has gone up,by 1million since David Hogg puppet, the greatest gun salesman since obama. — Brian0 (@Brianbr9164) May 30, 2018

RELATED: NRA Contributions Swamp Anti-Gun PAC’s Fundraising by More Than 150%

Anyone know where I can get one of these “NRA Finals” hats. Look pretty dope — Woogedy Boogedy (@JasonLa63831164) May 29, 2018

He’s not the only one who likes the look.

According to Sporting News, the Warriors are the overwhelming favorite to defeat the Cavaliers when they repeat their 2017 championship series (Game 1 tips off Thursday). But no matter who comes out on top, this hat’s already a winner.

Correction: This post originally gave the incorrectly home city for the Golden State Warriors. They’re based in Oakland.

Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.