https://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/04/13/fyi-you-can-watch-astronauts-read-popular-kids-books-from-space_a_23410965/
['Taylor Pittman', 'Editora De Vozes', 'The Huffington Post']
2018-04-13 00:00:00
FYI, You Can Watch Astronauts Read Popular Kids Books From Space
 
If you’re looking for a way to take story time up a notch with the kids in your life, why not turn to astronauts? That’s the premise of Story Time from Space, a project from the nonprofit Global Space Education Foundation that features astronauts reading beloved children’s books from the International Space Station.

T2 Science & Math Education Story Time from Space is a project that features astronauts reading children's books from the International Space Station.

Patricia Tribe, the former director of education at Space Center Houston who came up with the basis for the project, told HuffPost that the thought of merging space and reading came up after she did some research on literacy and science skills in the United States. She decided to merge STEM and literacy in a way that’s easily accessible for kids. “What better role models to engage kids in science and to engage them in reading?” she said. “You’re not only looking and listening to the books, you’re looking around the International Space Station.” Story Time from Space began with a pilot test from astronaut Benjamin Alvin Drew Jr., also known as Alvin Drew, who helped co-found the initiative with Tribe. He read Max Goes to the Moon, a book by astrophysicist and author Jeffrey Bennett, on the final flight of the space shuttle Discovery. Since the project’s official launch, other stories that have been told from space include Next Time You See a Sunset by Emily Morgan and Rosie Revere, Engineer by Andrea Beaty. The footage of the reading sessions are available on the Story Time from Space site and YouTube. Watch astronaut Kate Rubins read Rosie Revere, Engineer below.

The Story Time from Space team, which includes astronauts, scientists, educators and others, has important guidelines when it comes to choosing the books. They have to be “neat” books that can be read in about 15 minutes, involve some sort of concept regarding STEM and, most important, be accurate. “We don’t want to perpetuate any misinformation,” Tribe said. The team members sometimes receive books from authors who want to be considered for the reading sessions. They also keep up with various lists and recommendations involving STEM-focused children’s books. When they have a group of books to consider, the team discusses why a title should or shouldn’t be part of a launch. One thing the team keeps in mind is having books that cover a wide range of age groups.

T2 Science & Math Education The selected books include Jeffrey Bennett's work about a dog named Max who loves space, among many other titles.