http://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/2018/05/31/samantha-bee-apologizes-for-vile-c-word-attack-on-ivanka-trump.html
['Kathleen Joyce']
2018-05-31 00:00:00
Samantha Bee apologizes for vile, 'c-word' attack on Ivanka Trump
 
“Full Frontal” host Samantha Bee apologized Thursday after she used an extreme vulgarity to slam Ivanka Trump in her monologue on Wednesday over a photograph the first daughter shared on social media, calling her a “feckless c---.

The apology came a day after Bee used the slur on her TBS show, shocking viewers and critics alike.

"I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night," Bee said in a statment. "It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it."

TBS told Fox News it would be issuing a statement momentarily.

Ivanka Trump was criticized by several celebrities this week for a snap she shared of her hugging her son amid reports the Office of Refugee Resettlement lost track of 1,500 immigrant children in the last three months of 2017.

“Ivanka Trump, who works at the White House, chose to post the second most oblivious tweet we’ve seen this week,” Bee said, citing Roseanne Barr's racist tweet as the first.

IVANKA TRUMP’S PHOTO WITH SON SLAMMED BY CELEBRITIES

“You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices you feckless c---!

"He listens to you! Put on something tight and low cut and tell your father to f---ing stop it. Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes," she concluded.

The clip of Bee’s monologue was uploaded to her YouTube channel where the words "c---" and "f---" were not censored.

Bee’s show, “Full Frontal,” airs weekly on Wednesdays on TBS, an asset of Turner Broadcasting System which also owns CNN, TNT and HLN.

Bee is due to receive a special honor from the Television Academy on Thursday for "advancing social change" for her work on the show.

The host’s comments were criticized by social media users with some calling for her show to be canceled.

“If this statement had been addressed to a child of a former president, Samantha Bee would be out of a job,” one social media user wrote.

“Roseanne deserved to get fired for her comment. Samantha Bee called Ivanka a 'c---' on air and Keith Olbermann routinely calls the President a 'motherf---er.' Do you think either will get fired? Maybe see why so many Americans think there’s a media double-standard for liberals,” another tweeted.

Dan Gainor, the vice president of business and culture for Media Research Center, told Fox News that the media was not covering Bee’s “hateful comments.”

“Immediately after the media correctly criticized Roseanne Barr for a racist statement, Samantha Bee tries to outdo her by calling Ivanka Trump the 'C' word. Imagine if a conservative did this to Chelsea Clinton or to the Obama daughters. We'd never hear the end of it,” Gainor told Fox News.

“Today media are freaking out about an incorrect [President] Trump tweet saying ABC never apologized for Brian Ross's incompetent reporting that tanked the stock market," he said. "They aren't covering Samantha Bee at all. They would rather protect a discredited journalist than address the insane and hateful comments that come from one of their favorite TV people. ABC set the media-approved standard this week for misbehavior. When someone does something this disgusting, their show is canceled.”