https://www.westernjournal.com/l/erin-coates/grandfather-helps-grandson-with-marriage-proposal-by-plowing-note-into-field/
['Erin Coates', 'Tia Starr', 'Carolyn Marie', 'Kayla Kunkel', 'Amanda Thomason', 'Casey Allen']
2018-05-31 13:57:50-07:00
Grandfather Helps Grandson with Marriage Proposal by Plowing Note into Field
 
Every girl dreams of how her future husband will propose to her. And with so many men going to great lengths to impress their girlfriends, it is getting pretty hard to compete.

One man, for example, faked a life-threatening injury just to propose to his girlfriend. His girlfriend cried as paramedics wheeled him into the hospital.

“Baby, you’re my everything. You’re everything I’ve ever hoped for. You’re the first thing I think of in the morning. You’re the last thing I think of at night,” her boyfriend said.

“I just want you to know how much I love you,” he continued. “I’ve got one question for you.”

And all of a sudden, the emergency blanket is yanked off to reveal her boyfriend in a suit and tie holding roses. Her boyfriend climbs off the hospital bed and proceeds to get down on one knee as she continues to sob. “Will you marry me?” he asked. Luckily for him, she said yes, but she made sure to let him know he was never to scare her like that again.

TRENDING: Mother Cries Tears of Joy After Daughter Who Went Missing 24 Years Ago is Found

A man in North Dakota wasn’t quite as dramatic and got help from his grandfather to pull off the perfect proposal.

Jaden Wirrenga’s grandfather, Gene Hanson, is known to plow words in his field. From messages that say “We stand for the national anthem” to simply “Merry Christmas,” his field can be seen from the skies.

So, when it was time for Wirrenga to propose to his girlfriend Brooke Beske, he knew exactly who to turn to for a little creative help.

Hanson spent almost three hours plowing the 10-acre field for his grandson. The final product read, “Brooke will you marry me love Jaden,” in capital letters.

“They drove to Edgeley where Brooke was expecting her first airplane ride,” Hanson said. “In the flight, they flew past the message in the field and Brooke got all excited when she saw the message.”

Flying over the message, Beske’s jaw dropped in shock. And then she got really excited and you can see her mouth, “oh my” to the pilot with a huge grin spread across her face.

When the plane landed, Wirrenga was waiting for her. He knelt down and popped the question. It’s pretty clear from her reaction that Beske was more than happy to be able to say yes.

RELATED: Wife Slips into Coma Days After Giving Birth, Husband Sings at Bedside Before She Passes Away

What a sweet proposal! We wish these two the best of luck in their wedding planning and the rest of their lives together.

Submit your story here, and subscribe to our best uplifting stories here.

Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.