https://townhall.com/notebook/bethbaumann/2018/05/30/lipstick-wearing-social-justice-warriors-are-protesting-gun-violence-in-a-new-way-n2485850
['Beth Baumann', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Lipstick-Wearing Social Justice Warriors Are Protesting Gun Violence In A New Way
 
A makeup company with a social justice bent, called The Lipstick Lobby, produces different shades of lipstick to support various left-leaning causes.

"We are a social justice movement for change, progress and equality. Please join us in a simple way to protest and make a difference: this bold statement lipstick," the company says on their website. "Wearing this lipstick is a reminder that small actions can create big waves. It's a simple way to speak up and speak out against the threats to freedoms posed by the Trump administration. It's a small thing we can all do right here, right now to create change."

The company donates 100 percent of proceeds of their "Kiss My Pink" color to Planned Parenthood. They donate $5 of every lipstick sale of their "OUTRAGE" color to the ACLU. And now, the company has launched their orange "Fired Up" lipstick, where 100 percent of their net profits will be donated to the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence.

This is why The Lipstick Lobby says they support gun control:

FIRED UP: SAY IT WITH STENCILS

No matter what you’re POV on gun control or gun ownership, I think we can all agree, enough is enough. Taking inspiration from our brave and passionate survivors, we encouraged each participant to “stencil” a message using our fiery orange FIRED UP shade. Some of our messages include the classroom number at the MSD school that was gunned down, a message of positivity and “HOPE” or simply “NO”- we just cannot tolerate one more life lost to gun violence.

Before the launch of the "Fired Up" color, the lipstick company took a swing at Congress and their "lack of action."

Another day in America, another school shooting. And yet Congress continues to do nothing. It’s time to demand our leaders take action or come November we will #votethemout. We Stand With @Bradybuzz ???? https://t.co/UssTVAhto5 pic.twitter.com/puEX6oXJTA — The Lipstick Lobby (@TLipstickLobby) May 19, 2018

According to the company's founder, Davida Hall, she wanted to impact the conversation on guns and gun control.

"Our focus is female-centered, through the lens of women; how we feel as women, as mothers, as nurturers; what we think are the spotlight issues for our societies and our communities,” Hall told Forbes. “When we saw what was happening, we asked ourselves: how could we look away from this? How could we ignore innocent people just dying?”

The company's focus, however, is not on turning a profit but making a social impact.

“We’re not in it to make money,” she said. “We’re in it to use our voices and our skills at capacity. We’re a beauty brand for change. We’re flexible enough to pivot to new issues quickly."

The bright orange color that is used for the "Fired Up" campaign is a color that is easily recognized across the country.

“There’s an element that when you wear this kind of color, you see that it’s original and unique,” Kris Brown, the co-president of the Brady Campaign, told Forbes.“It’s associated with gun violence prevention, and I think it spreads awareness and understanding of the issue.”

Of course, the Brady Campaign is supportive of The Lipstick Lobby's efforts.

“Sadly, we’ve had far too many mass shootings in this country,” Brown said. “We have 96 Americans a day who are shot in this country. And Brady has been actively working to support victims and makes sure that stories get told, and that their voices get lifted up. I think what’s happened post-Parkland is that these kids have articulated so well their righteous indignation that we still live in a country where the vast majority of Americans want these changes, whether you own guns or don’t. And they’re saying, enough! And we’re certainly supportive of those efforts.”

Gun control advocates and survivors from Marjory Stoneman Douglas, Pulse Nightclub, Columbine, Washington Navy Yard and Sandy Hook are taking part in this campaign.

The company is utilizing survivors' stories to push their lipstick:

Here are some of the promotional pictures:

We are so honored that @JennyWadhwa1 joined us in our new campaign #FIREDUP! 100% of net profits from this shade go directly to @Bradybuzz . Join us in helping Brady reach their goal of cutting U.S. gun deaths in half by 2025 by shopping at https://t.co/KdmJyOgnJs pic.twitter.com/5AAwX3ToD8 — The Lipstick Lobby (@TLipstickLobby) May 29, 2018

#TeamENOUGH exec. council member & Parkland survivor, Aalayah Eastmond is featured in @TLipstickLobby's newest campaign #FiredUP which helps support @bradybuzz efforts to prevent gun violence -> https://t.co/Lq90aF09jh pic.twitter.com/jV81F2SIhW — Team ENOUGH (@Team_Enough) May 29, 2018

Interestingly enough, Hall sees this campaign as a "unification" type of project.

“We can’t do this alone. We hope people see these campaigns as less political and more about our civil liberties and not who you voted for in office. It’s about being human," Hall said.