https://nypost.com/2018/05/30/hiker-stranded-in-desert-with-broken-pelvis-drank-her-own-urine-to-survive/
['The Sun', 'May']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Hiker stranded in desert with broken pelvis drank her own urine to survive
 
An injured hiker survived for 72 hours in Joshua Tree National Park after drinking her own urine.

Claire Nelson was found stranded in southern California three days after she fell and broke her pelvis.

She later tweeted: “Nobody could hear me scream. I would have died by the weekend. I cannot believe I am alive.

“Now I’m in hospital; my pelvis is in pieces and it’s the most agonizing pain I’ve ever felt.

“They’re going to operate and piece me back together with pins. I’m so grateful to be alive.”

The New Zealander had been traveling across Canada but detoured to Joshua Tree for an adventure.

At the beginning of last week, she climbed over boulders but slipped down a 22-foot drop, shattering her pelvis.

Stricken Claire, 36, then had to endure the hot desert, where the heat topped 104 degrees.

When her water ran out, she started drinking her own urine, which she said tastes like “bad, flat beer.”

The woman used her sunscreen bottle cap to collect her urine and drink it.

For three days, she was unable to move and used her clothing as a shelter from the sun.

She planned to meet a friend on Thursday and hoped that, by not showing up, a search would be sparked.

Her friend launched the alarm and a search started on Friday morning.

Claire put a T-shirt and her hat on her hiking stick, waiving it to attract attention.

The crew, on a helicopter, spotted Claire’s signal around 4 p.m. on Friday local time.

They managed to rescue her and fly her to the hospital, where she now faces a long recovery.

Her mom, Maggie Hickton, became concerned when Claire stopped updating her Instagram.

“She’s actually in good spirits but she’s still in shock,” Maggie told the Herald on Sunday.

“It was three nights in the desert with a broken pelvis. She’s gone through all those thoughts about thinking she’s going to die.

“When no one came searching on Thursday she really felt she was going to die. She couldn’t move and the sun was fierce.

“At night she was petrified of the rattlesnakes and other things.”