http://www.huffingtonpost.in/2018/05/20/going-off-birth-control-cured-my-depression-and-gave-me-back-my-sex-drive_a_23439083/?utm_hp_ref=in-homepage
['Gena Steffens', 'Guest Writer']
2018-05-20 00:00:00
Going Off Birth Control Cured My Depression And Gave Me Back My Sex Drive
 
I’m 27 years old, and like a lot of women, I was put on birth control pills shortly after starting my period. If you had asked me at any point in the past, I would have told you I had never experienced an adverse side effect from my birth control. On the contrary, I loved and appreciated it for giving me reproductive autonomy while improving my acne-prone skin and taking the guesswork out of dealing with Aunt Flo.

My decision to quit the pill five months ago was about 65 percent a result of forgetting to go to the pharmacy and 35 percent curiosity to see if my body was capable of remembering how to menstruate on its own.

As it turns out, after spending half my life on birth control, going off it has been nothing short of a revelation ― one that has made me question why I spent half my life trying to convince myself that the mild mental and physical symptoms I experienced over the years were “natural,” even when they happened to be some of the most common side effects attributed to the pill.

The first thing I experienced after stopping the pill ― in my case, the combined version ― was what I would describe as a total sexual awakening. While I’ve never considered myself asexual by any means, my libido was mostly limited to the surge of excitement one might experience during courtship or after many shots of tequila. But within weeks, that changed drastically: Almost like cranking up an ancient generator stored away in the basement, my lady parts began to hum and pulsate with a kind of energy I had never felt.

Practically overnight, my lubrication levels went from zero to “ripe papaya” – and for someone who has spent their life suffering through relatively uncomfortable, sometimes painful, under-lubricated sex, this was huge. The change was so noticeable that I wondered if there might be something wrong with me, until I began to read the abundant accounts of other women whose sex drives were temporarily extinguished by birth control.

Around the same time, another strange thing happened. I realized I felt happy. I’m happy right now. Even if nothing great happens, I’m quite sure I’ll be happy tomorrow. Quitting birth control was as invigorating for my mental health as that wonderful feeling of sun and breeze on your bare legs when you wear shorts for the first time after a long winter.

I was diagnosed with depression shortly after getting put on birth control – something that doesn’t seem so strange, considering that a recent, massive study concluded that women taking the combined oral contraceptive pill are 23 percent more likely to be diagnosed with depression. Other forms of hormonal birth control present an even greater risk.

Though I traded in antidepressants for my own coping mechanisms years ago, I’ve spent essentially my whole adult life battling frequent waves of depression, mood swings, anxiety, fatigue, and a persistent mental fog. But I can’t remember a time I’ve ever felt as consistently confident, motivated, and happy as during these past months without the pill.

As if truly enjoying sex and feeling good about life for the first time weren’t enough, I’ve also lost weight since going off the pill. It isn’t anything significant – I’ve never been overweight, but, like most women, I’ve always been overly self-conscious about the places where my body jiggles and dimples. Without any changes to what I eat or how I exercise, I suddenly have abs, and lean muscle mass now contours across my body in areas previously dominated by flab.

The only real negative outcome I’ve had since going off birth control is a minor resurgence of acne and oily skin. While this has been frustrating, I’m honestly more than happy to deal with a few pimples if it means that I’m emotionally stable, energetic, confident, clearheaded, and sexually engaged.

I fully recognize that going off birth control isn’t an option for many women, and many of those who do leave it behind probably won’t enjoy the same benefits that I have (sorry).

And don’t get it twisted ― even though my experience quitting birth control was a positive one, I totally refuse to side with anyone who believes that access to birth control, or any other women’s reproductive health procedure or treatment, should be limited in any way, so please don’t interpret this as such.

(While we’re at it, if you have any questions or concerns about your birth control, please consult your doctor.)