https://nypost.com/2018/05/30/fed-votes-to-scale-back-hated-volcker-rule-on-wall-street/
['May']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Fed votes to scale back hated ‘Volcker Rule’ on Wall Street
 
Volcker? We barely knew her!

The Federal Reserve approved a plan to scale back a controversial Obama-era rule that limited certain types of risky trading — but got blamed for making the financial crisis worse.

The restrictions, codified in a section of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law called the “Volcker rule,” all but killed the ability of banks with federally insured deposits to trade with their own accounts.

The rule, named after the former Fed chairman Paul Volcker, was one of the most hated on Wall Street since it limited profits at firms like Goldman Sachs, which depend on trading revenue.

The revamp, which the Fed approved on Wednesday, would ease some of those rules, which Wall Street has called overly complicated and unfair.

“This proposal represents our best first effort at simplifying and tailoring the Volcker rule,” Randy Quarles, the Fed’s vice chairman, said ahead of the Wednesday vote.

Still, the proposed rules come after several Wall Street banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, reported their most profitable quarters ever, thanks to heightened trading and tax breaks.

In addition to the changes to the trading restrictions, “Volcker 2.0,” as the rules are being called, would allow banks to police their own trading through their compliance departments, and cuts down on how much trading information needs to be reported to regulators.

“What is critical is that simplification not undermine the core principle at stake — that taxpayer-supported banking groups, of any size, not participate in proprietary trading at odds with the basic public and customers’ interests,” Paul Volcker said in a statement. “I trust the final rule will strongly maintain that position by, as intended, facilitating its practical application.”

Wall Street critics sought to paint the changes as dangerous to the markets and could lead to another financial collapse. The new rule is set to be voted on by four other regulators, and is subject to a 90-day comment period.

“This proposal is no minor set of technical tweaks to the Volcker Rule, but an attempt to unravel fundamental elements of the response to the 2008 financial crisis, when banks financed their gambling with taxpayer-insured deposits,” said Marcus Stanley, policy director at Americans for Financial Reform.

In 2011, less than a year after Congress passed Dodd-Frank, reports surfaced that Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein was personally trying to water down the rules to keep it from costing the bank as much as $3.7 billion a year in revenue.

“They’re totally freaked out about Volcker,” an unnamed Goldman lobbyist told Reuters at the time. “People are working on that a lot, with agency staff, with lawmakers, you name it.”