https://www.westernjournal.com/ct/watch-as-secret-service-tell-cocky-jim-acosta-hes-not-getting-in/#respond
['Cillian Zeal', 'Joe Saunders', 'Benjamin Arie']
2018-05-31 07:16:46-07:00
Watch as Secret Service Tell Cocky Jim Acosta He’s Not Getting in
 
It isn’t too often that someone in the White House media corps tries to pull a “do you know who I am?” on anyone, much less the Secret Service.

There’s a reason for this: Unlike athletes and singers and other such people who use the “do you know who I am?” card, most people don’t know who White House press correspondents are. Dan Rather was arguably the most famous, but this was in the days before he was the host of the “CBS Evening News.”

In other words, there aren’t too many people who can pull that ugly get-out-of-jail-free card in the White House briefing room.

But if someone was going to, it was going to be Jim Acosta. And of course he did, because … well, he’s Jim Acosta.

The whole thing was caught on video and has become a slight sensation on Twitter, at least for those of us who know who CNN’s bratty White House media correspondent is.

TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover

It’s difficult to tell from the beginning of the video what the issue was, but from what I can make out, it appears Acosta wasn’t wearing a security lanyard of some sort.

The Secret Service agent tried to explain to him that, yes, the rules to apply to him, too. But Jimbo wasn’t having it.

“I’ve been here five years and nobody’s …” Acosta said before trailing off.

The Secret Service agent responded that she was sorry, but she had not been there for five years, and all Acosta could do was thank her and walk away.

The original poster of the video characterized Acosta’s reaction as a “meltdown.” In all fairness, I wouldn’t go that far, but once you have to pull out any variation on the “do you know who I am?” card, well …

Acosta, for those of you who may have forgotten, is the same guy who actually decided to take to Twitter to complain that White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders hadn’t taken a question from him at three (three!) news conferences after making a scene about it in the media briefing.

Here was that petulance on display then:

Third press briefing in a row that @PressSec did not take a question from CNN. #courage — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) March 5, 2018

Do you think Jim Acosta is annoying? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out.

Courage, indeed. And now he’s joined celebrities like Mike Tyson, David Hasselhoff, Reese Witherspoon, Margaret Cho and Shia LaBeouf, among others, as users of some variation of the excuse “do you know who I am?”

RELATED: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover

Now, granted, most of this cohort made these statements after quite a few adult beverages. I don’t know Mr. Acosta’s private habits, but he seemed sober.

Then again, I don’t know whether that makes this better or worse.

Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.