https://pagesix.com/2018/05/30/ben-simmons-may-have-cheated-on-tinashe-with-kendall-jenner/
['May']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Ben Simmons may have cheated on Tinashe with Kendall Jenner
 
After Page Six exclusively revealed that 76ers star Ben Simmons is dating Kendall Jenner — the 6-foot-10 Rookie of the Year candidate is being accused of striking up the romance with the supermodel before he broke up with his ex, singer Tinashe.

A source told Page Six that Simmons has been seeing Jenner “for a few weeks.” They were spotted together in New York last week and in LA on Tuesday. But after our report, Tinashe’s teen brother, Kudzai Kachingwe, went ballistic on Simmons on Twitter, alleging that the NBA star only broke up with Tinashe on Sunday, and that he was “cheating” on her.

“Never met you before in my life. Days after u break my sis heart u do this,” Kachingwe posted. He added: “no f - - king excuse for cheating, be a man and figure it out.”

Then again, some reports have had another timeline — MTO News said on May 25 that Simmons and Tinashe parted ways because Tinashe was “doing Kardashian s - - t.” A source told the site of Tinashe, “She is way too public with everything. They just started dating and this girl is calling up paparazzi.”

see also Kendall Jenner is dating NBA star Ben Simmons The pair was spotted this week on a lunch date...

Either way, Kachingwe also addressed the Kardashian comparison on Twitter on Wednesday, posting: “people all lied on her talking fake news about my sis doing kardashian s - - t u cheat on her w a Jenner.”

On Monday, Simmons landed at LAX, and was seen on a lavish lunch date Tuesday with Jenner, we reported. TMZ spotted Simmons out Tuesday night at the Waldorf Astoria Beverly Hills with a woman covering her face with a hoodie. Reps have not gotten back to us.

Simmons started dating Tinashe in March. Her brother says he’s trying to “expose” what happened, but posted, “Sorry for blowing up y’all twitter everyone. It was actually the only way to defend my sister.”

For her part, Tinashe simply posted a sexy photo captioned, “I set the bar, I’m the f - - kin bar.”

Jenner is allegedly rebounding from another NBA star, Blake Griffin.