https://pagesix.com/2018/05/30/judge-backs-new-melissa-mccarthy-film-after-sesame-street-complaints/
['May']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Judge backs new Melissa McCarthy film after ‘Sesame Street’ complaints
 
The marketing for Melissa McCarthy’s new film — featuring Muppet-like characters doing very naughty things — can move forward despite complaints from the folks behind “Sesame Street” that it “tarnishes” their kid show’s brand the way a classic ‘70s porno flick tainted the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders.

see also 'Sesame Street' creators sue over Melissa McCarthy flick Sesame Workshop filed the suit in Manhattan federal court claiming...

Manhattan federal Judge Vernon Broderick rejected a request by the Sesame Workshop for a temporary retraining order to halt ads for the upcoming comedy “Happytime Murders,” including a YouTube trailer with the tagline, “No Sesame. All Street.”

In its lawsuit filed last week, Sesame Workshop objected to the film’s trailer, featuring “drug-using, misogynistic, violent, copulating, and even ejaculating puppets,” saying it caused “devastating and irreparable injury” to the Sesame Street name.

“They are distributing a trailer that deliberately confuses consumers into mistakenly believing that Sesame is associated with, has allowed, or has even endorsed or produced the movie and tarnishes Sesame’s brand,” the lawsuit claimed.

But Broderick ruled that the STX film — directed by Brian Henson, the son of the late Jim Henson, whose Muppets have been central characters in the children’s mainstay since its inception in 1969 — was geared toward an entirely different audience than “Sesame Street.”

He also found that the trailer’s “No Sesame. All Street” tagline was intended to “differentiate” the raunchy adult film from the wholesome educational show featuring Big Bird and Oscar the Grouch.

“I find the use of the tagline to disclaim — albeit in a short and pithy manner,” the judge said.

At one point, a lawyer for Sesame Workshop tried to compare the damage she said the McCarthy trailer has done to “Sesame Street’s” brand to the damage the porn movie “Debbie Does Dallas” inflicted on the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders, who successfully beat the film from being shown at an adult movie theater in the 1970s.

The judge wasn’t buying it.

“’Debbie Does Dallas’ was a pornographic movie,” the judge said. “Isn’t there a difference here?”

The judge also downplayed Sesame Workshop’s evidence that the trailer was confusing viewers, saying they provided just a “handful” of examples of people who wrongly associated the trailer with “Sesame Street” — a drop in the bucket compared to the “millions of views of the trailer.”

As of this writing, the “Happytime Murders” trailer had chalked up 2.2 million views on YouTube.