https://nypost.com/2018/05/30/univision-names-vincent-sadusky-new-ceo/
['May']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Univision names Vincent Sadusky new CEO
 
Univision, the embattled Spanish-language broadcaster, is hoping a change at the top will turn around its fortunes.

As widely speculated, the company on Wednesday said it will bring on Vincent Sadusky as chief executive — succeeding Randy Falco.

One of Sadusky’s first orders of business will be to bring on Peter Kern as a special adviser, The Post has learned.

Kern, the current CEO of Tribune Media Co., who is currently overseeing his company’s merger with Sinclair Broadcast Group, serves on the board of Hemisphere Media Group, a Spanish-language firm, alongside Sadusky.

Sadusky comes to Univision from Media General, where he served as president and CEO of from 2014 to 2017. He previously held several executive roles at Telemundo.

Sadusky, 53, has been brought in to “clean up” Univision, which translates to modernizing the company with the possibility of preparing it for sale, sources told The Post.

That desire isn’t exactly novel.

In fact, Falco had been tasked with pretty much the same duties — but Univision tried twice unsuccessfully to go public, including as recently as March. That effort was withdrawn after Univision missed its estimated 2017 financial goals by $200 million.

Falco had signed his new deal just months before letting the board know of the financial shortfall. The board would soon sour on Falco, sources said.

Critics also knocked Falco for his lavish spending.

The CEO bought a gold watch on behalf of the company for Univision ad sales chief Keith Turner, and gave Chief Revenue Officer Tonia O’Connor a Hermès purse, sources said.

O’Connor, who has been a public face of the company, found herself in the middle of a PR kerfuffle in mid-May when Univision’s communications team tweeted a photo of her at the company’s upfront presentation highlighting her pricey Missoni outfit.

“Staff are upset, and there were comments, saying, ‘How could they put a photo up of Tonia and promote her designer outfit when everyone else is being fired?’” a Univision source told Page Six at the time.

Univision declined to comment.

Management is hoping to turn the page with Sadusky’s arrival.

“Vince is distinctly qualified to lead UCI through the next phase of its growth, given his impressive track record of leadership, vision, deep industry experience and relationships,” Univision Chairman Haim Saban said in a statement.