https://townhall.com/tipsheet/katiepavlich/2018/05/30/hamas-just-sent-a-rocket-through-an-israeli-kindergarten-n2485376
['Katie Pavlich', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
Hamas Just Sent a Mortar, Likely Provided By Iran, Through an Israeli Kindergarten
 
Over the past 24-hours, the Iranian backed terrorist organization Hamas launched nearly 100 rockets and mortars into Israel with the intention of slaughtering innocent civilians. Israeli Defense forces responded by targeting a series of Hamas strongholds in the Gaza Strip.

This illustration depicts the rockets and mortars that terrorist organizations in the Gaza Strip fired at Israeli civilians pic.twitter.com/kZvxyq5NkW — IDF (@IDFSpokesperson) May 30, 2018

This video shows some of the terror targets that the IDF struck during the last 24 hours pic.twitter.com/ImvH1iczwn — IDF (@IDFSpokesperson) May 30, 2018

A close look at the rockets shows many were developed and sent by Iran. While the Iron Dome has intercepted most of the attacks, one of the mortars landed in the yard of an Israeli kindergarten where children play. Luckily, it was in the early morning hours before children were at the school. Another landed in a civilian home.

This shouldn't happen in a kindergarten.

Kindergartens aren't targets. pic.twitter.com/mUYaGdYuMv — IDF (@IDFSpokesperson) May 30, 2018

This photo, of a mortar bomb shot by Palestinian terrorists, in an Israeli kindergarten yard not far from #Gaza, is dedicated to all the sanctimonious hypocrites claiming that Israel acts “ disproportionately “. We protect our citizens from the dangerous murderers of #Hamas . pic.twitter.com/JEOkA7MqeW — Emmanuel Nahshon (@EmmanuelNahshon) May 29, 2018

Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus is reporting from a civilian home that was hit by a rocket earlier this morning pic.twitter.com/3HsEyAO9ie — IDF (@IDFSpokesperson) May 30, 2018

A number of Israeli soldiers and civilians have been wounded as a result of the rocket fire.

During Operation Protective Edge in 2014, when Israel launch a full-scale military operation to combat Hamas and their rocket war, medical workers at a hospital in Ashkelon were forced to permanently move premature babies into a bomb shelter.