http://www.townhall.com/notebook/micahrate/2018/05/30/even-without-a-voice-this-amazing-comic-brings-laughter-to-britain-n2485728
['Micah Rate', 'Matt Vespa', 'Erika Haas']
2018-05-30 00:00:00
He Has No Voice, But That Hasn't Stopped Him From Being A Comic Genius
 
Millions of people watch television series like American Idol, The Voice, and America's Got Talent, not just to be entertained and amazed by performances and bizarre acts, but to hear the personal stories and backgrounds of the contestants. The contestants on the television screen can become celebrities, heroes, and role models overnight, and many contestants connect with viewers on a personal level.

In America, people from all over the country come to audition for these shows, hoping that their short audition will be the start of their lives changing forever. Many of the stories told by contestants involve the loss of loved ones or the overcoming of disabilities, and it is these stories that can bring tears to the viewer's eyes and leave them speechless.

Across the pond, Great Britain has a talent show of its own. Britain's series Britain's Got Talent operates the same way as America's Got Talent, and this year, one contestant, though literally speechless, has stolen the show by bringing laughter to everyone who watches his comedy act.

Meet Lee Ridley, a 37-year-old man who's also known as the "Lost Voice Guy."

Lee Ridley lost his ability to speak due to the congenital disorder cerebral palsy, which affects body movement and muscle coordination. But despite the diagnosis and effects of the disorder, Lee has embraced comedy.

Using a computer, Lee jokes about his condition and causes his audiences to roar with laughter. Lee's sense of humor and his routine have been a hit since his first audition, and he now finds himself in Britain's Got Talent's finale.

One of Lee's best jokes from his first audition is, "To be honest, I'm not sure how good I am. I'll leave that for you to decide. But just so you know, if you don't laugh at the disabled guy, you're going to Hell."

Lee is an inspiration for those with cerebral palsy and anyone who may be struggling with another disorder. His comedic act is having an impact that is larger than he could ever imagine.

Below is Lee's first audition for Britain's Got Talent.

FIRST LOOK: The 'Lost Voice Guy', may not be able to speak but he's not going to let that get in the way of entertaining the #BGT crowd. ????????



Enjoy a sneak peek from his comedy set and tune into Britain's Got Talent on Saturday from 8pm on @ITV for a lot more laughs. pic.twitter.com/lHscLe85w7 — Britain's Got Talent (@BGT) April 20, 2018

Lee's semi-finals act can be watched here as well. The show's finale is set to air on Sunday.