https://nypost.com/news/page/2/
[]
None
New York Post
 
Mysterious explosions plague Pennsylvania suburbs A mysterious set of explosions in the suburbs of Philadelphia over the past two months has strained emergency responses to other calls and left authorities in Pennsylvania asking for help...

Mom of 10 intentionally burned baby with straightener: cops A 28-year-old mom of 10 is accused of burning her infant child on purpose with a hair straightener, according to reports. Stephanie Nicole Rodriguez of Lubbock, Texas, was indicted by...

Cryptic emergency alert sends Oregon city into panic SALEM, Ore. — Oregon’s emergency alert systems blasted a cryptic alert to cellphones around the capital city, panicking residents by telling them simply “Civil Emergency” and “Prepare for Action” and...

Mom of 'kidnapped' baby found dead in diaper box charged CHESTERFIELD, S.C. — The mother of an 11-month-old baby found dead in a diaper box near her South Carolina home has been charged with lying to police and improperly disposing...

Woman defends drunk driving: 'Jesus drank wine and so did I' This drunk driving suspect says she’s just a follower of Christ. After allegedly boozing behind the wheel Sunday night, Nicole Ann Mintner defended herself to police by telling arresting officers...

Teen indicted for killing girlfriend, discarding body on driveway A upstate New York teen was indicted for allegedly killing his girlfriend inside an acquaintance’s house, then leaving her body on the driveway. Jermaine Brown, 17, was charged Wednesday by...

Police under fire for 'warning' about Zika-contaminated meth An Ohio police department took to Facebook this week with a faux advisory for meth users about Zika. “WARNING: If you have recently purchased Meth in Preble, Montgomery, Darke or...

Giuliani: Trump won't fire Sessions, Rosenstein before end of Russia probe WASHINGTON – President Trump has no plans to fire Attorney General Jeff Sessions before the Russia probe is completed, the president’s lawyer said Wednesday. Rudy Giuliani told reporters outside the...

Man caught masturbating tells cops he's Captain Kirk A man who was captured masturbating in public on Monday told Florida police officers he was Captain Kirk from “Star Trek.” Officers from the Clearwater Police Department were called to...