https://radio.foxnews.com/2018/05/29/benson-and-harf-05-29-18/
['Fox News Radio', 'Todd Starnes Show']
2018-05-29 00:00:00
General Michael Hayden, FNC Host Howard Kurtz & New Ambassador To Germany Richard Grenell
 
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

The Benson and Harf Show on FOX News Talk!

NOGO! President Trump on Thursday canceled the highly anticipated summit with North Korea that had been set for next month, calling the talks "inappropriate" following the "hostility" displayed in the latest comments from dictator Kim Jong Un. The move to pull out of the summit, slated to take place in Singapore on June 12, came after threats from Kim to call off the talks. In a letter to Kim on Thursday, Trump said the world, and North Korea, had lost a "great opportunity for lasting peace and great prosperity." "Based on the tremendous anger and open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting," Trump wrote in a letter to Kim on Thursday. "Therefore, please let this letter serve to represent that the Singapore summit, for the good of both parties, but to the detriment of the world, will not take place." Marie gets the latest from White House Correspondent John Roberts & Congressman Jim Himes (D-CT) weighs in.

Meetings Upon Meetings! White House lawyer Emmet Flood attended the start of two classified Justice Department briefings with lawmakers on a confidential intelligence source, adding to Democratic concerns that White House staff were taking part in the briefings on classified information that was related to the Russia investigation. Flood and White House chief of staff John Kelly attended the start of the briefings before leaving. Their attendance was just one of the many twists that accompanied the remarkable back-to-back briefings between senior Trump administration officials and two different groups of lawmakers. FOX's Senior Capitol Hill Producer, Chad Pergram breaks it all down.

Say What? President Trump, in an exclusive interview with Fox News, said he believes NFL owners "did the right thing" by instituting a new policy mandating players and personnel stand for the national anthem or face a fine. "You have to stand proudly for the national anthem and the NFL owners did the right thing with that if that's what they've done," Trump told "Fox & Friends'" Brian Kilmeade in an interview aired Thursday. Trump credited the fans for pushing the NFL, while blasting players who don't stand and even suggesting they shouldn't be in the country. "I don't think people should be staying in the locker rooms, but still I think it's good. You have to stand proudly for the national anthem. You shouldn't be playing, you shouldn't be there. Maybe they shouldn't be in the country," Trump said. Marie & Kat take it to the calls.

Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Benson and Harf Show LIVE Monday through Friday 6-8 pm Eastern! Find out more at BensonAndHarf.com