https://radio.foxnews.com/2018/05/29/u-s-ambassador-to-germany-richard-grenell-im-going-to-be-less-like-a-typical-diplomat-i-want-to-dig-down-into-policy-issues/
['Cristina Johnson', 'Todd Starnes Show']
2018-05-29 00:00:00
U.S. Ambassador to Germany Richard Grenell: I’m going to be less like a typical diplomat. I want to dig down into policy issues.
 
Richard Grenell was finally confirmed as the U.S. Ambassador to Germany last month after months of delay. Grenell has a been an outspoken supporter of President Trump, a longtime supporter of Log Cabin Republicans, and is now the highest ranking openly gay official in any Republican administration in American history.

Richard Grenell joins Guy and Marie from Berlin to discuss his new role, how social media affects public policy, and Germany's reaction to the U.S. backing out of the Iran deal.

On his new role as U.S. Ambassador to Germany: Its very exciting and humbling to be speaking for the U.S., the White House, the president, and the American people. I'm going to be less like a typical diplomat. I don't see myself doing a lot of ribbon cutting and ceremonial elitist stuff. I want to dig down into policy issues. It is surprising the degree to which you give up your life as a diplomat. It's life changing. (00:52)

On how social media affects public policy: President Trump tapped into the silent majority by going around the traditional media. I try to go around the filter and go straight to the people. People don't have to write a letter and wait for a diplomat to write back. They can comment on Instagram or Twitter. I find it energizing because it makes me feel like I'm in touch and speaking for the silent majority. (6:44)

On Germany's reaction to the U.S. pulling out of the Iran Deal: While they don't agree with our tactic, they agree with us on the goal. They talk about Iran as a threat and they are clear that something must be done. We're all focused on the goal. (10:09)

On being the first openly gay ambassador appointed by a Republican president: It's not new to me I've been gay my whole life. (13:54)