http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/05/14/even-the-bottom-of-the-worlds-deepest-ocean-trench-is-not-safe-from-plastic-bags_a_23434528/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage
['Dominique Mosbergen', 'Senior Writer', 'The Huffington Post']
2018-05-14 00:00:00
Even The Bottom Of The World's Deepest Ocean Trench Is Not Safe From Plastic Bags
 
Almost 36,000 feet underwater, near the very bottom of the world’s deepest ocean trench, scientists came across a troubling find: a plastic bag, similar to one you might take home from a supermarket, lying incongruously in the darkness.

A recent study on deep-sea ocean pollution identified the bag, found in 1998 by a robotic submersible at a depth of 35,756 feet in the Mariana Trench, as the deepest known piece of plastic trash on Earth. Scientists say its presence in one of the world’s most remote environments signals just how worryingly pervasive plastic pollution has become.

And the problem isn’t limited to a single plastic bag.

For the study, researchers from Japan, together with scientists from UN Environment’s World Conservation Monitoring Center, combed through the Deep-Sea Debris Database, a massive Japanese library of deep-sea photos and videos taken on more than 5,000 dives over the course of 30 years. The database was made public in 2017.

What they found was a disturbing amount of trash clogging deep-sea environments, including the Japan Trench and the Mariana Trench, as well as deep-sea areas in the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic oceans.

The scientists said the images they scoured showed more than 3,400 pieces of debris. More than one-third of the waste they counted was made of plastic ― a staggering 89 percent of which was single-use items like plastic bags, packaging and bottles.

In environments deeper than 19,000 feet, more than half of the debris logged by the study was plastic ― and almost all of the plastic found at those depths was single-use.

“The ubiquitous distribution of single-use plastic, even to the greatest depths of the ocean, reveal a clear link between daily human activities and the remotest of environments,” UN Environment said in a statement last month.