http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/04/24/princess-charlotte-steals-the-show-10-times-the-two-year-old-won-us-over-with-her-cuteness_a_23419456/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage
['Amy Packham', 'Life Writer At The Huffington Post Uk']
2018-04-24 00:00:00
Princess Charlotte Steals The Show: 10 Times The Two-Year-Old Won Us Over With Her Cuteness
 
Despite the recent buzz around the third royal baby being born, there was one moment that distracted us from it all: Princess Charlotte’s adorable wave. The two-year-old captured hearts when she arrived at the hospital to meet her baby brother for the first time on Monday 23 April, eagerly smiling at the crowds and photographers outside. Just look how she mastered that royal wave.

The cutest royal wave ever 👑

Prince George and Princess Charlotte are off to visit their baby brother for the first time. #RoyalBaby pic.twitter.com/zZxzRHYUlF — ITV (@ITV) April 23, 2018

But let’s be honest, that’s not the first time the Princess has won us over with her cuteness. Here are the moments we’ve loved. 1. When she turned around to give another cheeky wave on the steps of the Lindo Wing.

Samir Hussein via Getty Images

2. When she had a mini tantrum while touring in Germany and proved she’s just like any other toddler.

Franziska Krug via Getty Images

3. When she smelled a mini bunch of flowers during an official visit in Berlin.

Isa Foltin via Getty Images

4. When she made funny faces from a plane window.

Chris Jackson via Getty Images

5. When she got shy in public when arriving in Poland.

DMC via Getty Images

6. When she really didn’t see the fascination of the Trooping the Colour parade.

James Devaney via Getty Images

7. When she had a sneaky look at the crowds during an event and wasn’t impressed.

Max Mumby/Indigo via Getty Images

8. When she was a flower girl. SO CUTE.

WPA Pool via Getty Images

9. When she clutched on to a candy cane.

AFP via Getty Images

10. When she tried to smile but really wasn’t feeling it.

Pool/Samir Hussein via Getty Images