http://www.huffingtonpost.in/2018/05/28/opposition-claims-conspiracy-as-faulty-evms-are-reported-from-kairana-noorpur-palghar-and-bhandara-gondiya_a_23445033/?utm_hp_ref=in-homepage
['Rohini Chatterji', 'General Assignment Editor', 'Huffpost India']
2018-05-28 00:00:00
Opposition Claims Conspiracy As Faulty EVMs Are Reported From Kairana, Noorpur, Palghar And Bhandara-Gondiya
 
Even as 14 elections were being held across 10 states across India -- including in Uttar Pradesh's Kairana and Maharashtra's Palghar and Bhandara-Gondiya -- faulty EVM's were reported from across the country, with the Electio Commission blaming the heat wave for the ordeal.

However, the Opposition parties have claimed that the EVMs had been tampered with.

PTI reported that faulty EVMs were reported from both Kairana and Noorpur in UP. Other reports said that in Palghar and Bhandara-Gondiya too some EVMs were not working.

Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav called conspiracy, saying that while people had were waiting in long lines in the heat, this could be a way to stop them from casting their votes.

हज़ारों EVM में ख़राबी की शिकायतें आ रही हैं. किसान, मज़दूर, महिलाएँ व नौजवान भरी धूप में अपनी बारी के इंतज़ार में भूखे-प्यासे खड़े हैं. ये तकनीकी ख़राबी है या चुनाव प्रबंधन की विफलता या फिर जनता को मताधिकार से वंचित करने की साज़िश. इस तरह से तो लोकतंत्र की बुनियाद ही हिल जायेगी. — Akhilesh Yadav (@yadavakhilesh) May 28, 2018

Tabassum Hasan, RLD candidate from Kairana also complained saying she had been receiving reports of EVMs not functioning since morning. She also blamed the administration saying this was a ploy to favour one party.

I've been continuously receiving complaints. They didn't expect so many ppl to come out to vote in Ramzan.Initial strategy was to hold elections in Ramzan so that ppl won't vote: Tabassum Hasan, RLD candidate for #Kairana Lok Sabha seat after writing to EC over faulty EVMs&VVPATs pic.twitter.com/0JjnN4LMrC — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) May 28, 2018

Hasan has written to the Election Commission complaining about the faulty EVMs.

Meanwhile in Maharashtra's Bhandara–Gondiya voting had to be temporarily suspended because the EVMs had stopped working.

In Palghar the returning officer said that there was a bit of panic earlier in the day over EVMs, but now it had been sorted.

Encountered problems & panic in the initial hours. Nothing has happened after 12 pm. The new machines are working properly. We are in consultation with Central Election Commission about extension of voting time: Dr Prashant Narnaware, Returning Officer on #Palghar by-poll pic.twitter.com/GKp9fcWOfR — ANI (@ANI) May 28, 2018

News18 quoted sources from the Election Commission as saying that the rising temperatures across the country may have caused the sensors in the voting machines to become non-functional and that repairs were being carried.

Congress leader Praful Patel, however, questioned the explanation for the faulty EVMs.

EVMs malfunctioning in Bhandara-Gondiya poll. In many big European nations, election commissions have rejected the EVMs and gone back to ballot paper system. SP leader Akhilesh Yadav ji just called me up,he also said 300 EVMs not working in Kairana bypoll: Praful Patel,NCP pic.twitter.com/M8mOsOHNIt — ANI (@ANI) May 28, 2018