http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/05/14/the-most-stunning-looks-from-the-2018-cannes-film-festival-red-carpet_a_23434574/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage
['Julia Brucculieri', 'Entertainment Writer', 'The Huffington Post']
2018-05-14 00:00:00
The Most Stunning Looks From The 2018 Cannes Film Festival Red Carpet
 
For more stunning fashion moments from the festival’s red carpet, keep scrolling:

One thing we love about Cannes is the fact that attendees aren’t afraid to go big. Many, like Julianne Moore and Cate Blanchett, have opted for couture gowns plucked from the runway. Then there’s Deepika Padukone, who always brings her A-game to the festival . This year, she wore some stunning gowns, but our favorite has to be the bright fuchsia Ashi Studio number she donned for the “Ash Is The Purest White” premiere. Talk about making an entrance.

The 71st annual Cannes Film Festival is underway in France, and as usual, there’s been no shortage of stunning looks on the red carpet.

Cindy Bruna Barcroft Media via Getty Images Wearing Ashi Studio at the "Burning" premiere on May 16.

Petra Nemcova Barcroft Media via Getty Images Wearing Georges Chakra at the "Burning" premiere on May 16.

Khadja Nin George Pimentel via Getty Images At the screening of "Burning" on May 16.

Aissa Maiga Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Balmain at the screening of "Burning" on May 16.

Adriana Lima Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Alberta Ferretti at the screening of "Burning" on May 16.

Jiang Mengjie VCG via Getty Images At the screening of "Burning" on May 16.

Winnie Harlow Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Jean-Louis Sabaji Couture at the screening of "Solo: A Star Wars Story" on May 15.

Shanina Shaik Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Alberta Ferretti at the screening of "Solo: A Star Wars Story" on May 15.

Emilia Clarke Mike Marsland via Getty Images Wearing Dior at the screening of "Solo: A Star Wars Story" on May 15.

Sara Sampaio Barcroft Media via Getty Images Wearing Ralph & Russo at the "Solo: A Star Wars Story" premiere on May 15.

Sonam Kapoor LOIC VENANCE via Getty Images Wearing Vera Wang on May 15, 2018 for the screening of the film "Solo : A Star Wars Story."

Sonam Kapoor Anadolu Agency via Getty Images Wearing Ralph & Russo for the screening of the film "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14.

Bella Hadid Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Elie Saab couture at the screening of "Blackkklansman" on May 14.

Cate Blanchett Dominique Charriau via Getty Images Wearing Givenchy Haute Couture at the screening of "Blackkklansman" on May 14.

Natasha Poly George Pimentel via Getty Images Wearing Atelier Versace at the screening of "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14.

Nicole Scherzinger Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Ashi Studio at the screening of "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14.

Daphne Groeneveld Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Roberto Cavalli couture at the screening of "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14.

Winnie Harlow Vittorio Zunino Celotto via Getty Images Wearing Ralph & Russo at the screening of "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14.

Aishwarya Rai Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Rami Kadi Couture at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13.

Araya Hargate Stephane Cardinale - Corbis via Getty Images In Giambattista Valli couture for the "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" photo call on May 13.

Diane Kruger Stephane Cardinale - Corbis via Getty Images Wearing Armani Privé at the "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" photo call on May 13.

Lea Mornar Gisela Schober via Getty Images At the screening of "A Family Matter (Une Affaire De Famille)" on May 13.

Izabel Goulart Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Zuhair Murad couture at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13.

Iskra Lawrence Andreas Rentz via Getty Images Wearing Justin Alexander at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13.

Chiara Ferragni Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing custom Alberta Ferretti at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13.

Jane Fonda ALBERTO PIZZOLI via Getty Images Wearing Givenchy Haute Couture at the screening of "Sink or Swim (Le Grand Bain" on May 13.

Bruna Marquezine Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Philosophy di Lorenzo Serafini at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13.

Stacy Martin Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Dior at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13.

Elsa Hosk Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Alberta Ferretti at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12.

Sofia Boutella Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Vera Wang Bridal at the screening of "Farenheit 451" on May 12.

Jasmine Tookes Mike Marsland via Getty Images Wearing Zac Posen at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12.

Kendall Jenner Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Schiaparelli couture at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12.

Aishwarya Rai Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Michael Cinco couture at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12.

Helen Mirren George Pimentel via Getty Images Wearing Elie Saab couture at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12.

Deepika Padukone Vittorio Zunino Celotto via Getty Images In Ashi Studio couture, at the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11.

Araya Hargate George Pimentel via Getty Images In Ashi Studio at the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11.

Kangana Ranaut George Pimentel via Getty Images In Nedo by Nedret Taciroglu at the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11.

Bella Hadid VALERY HACHE via Getty Images Wearing Dior Couture for the screening of the film "Ash is Purest White (Jiang hu er nv)" on May 11.

Miya Muqi Andreas Rentz via Getty Images At the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11.

Praya Lundberg George Pimentel via Getty Images In Michael Cinco Couture at the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)."

Lupita Nyong'o Gisela Schober via Getty Images In Christian Dior Couture at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10.

Amber Heard Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Valentino couture at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10.

Aja Naomi King Emma McIntyre via Getty Images Wearing Zuhair Murad couture at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10.

Deepika Padukone George Pimentel via Getty Images In Zuhair Murad at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10.

Irina Shayk Venturelli via Getty Images In Versace at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10.

Cate Blanchett Andreas Rentz via Getty Images In Mary Katrantzou at the screening of "Cold War (Zimna Wojna)" on May 10.

Guan Xiaotong George Pimentel via Getty Images At the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11.

Celina Jade Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Dior at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10.

Julianne Moore LOIC VENANCE via Getty Images Wearing Givenchy Haute Couture at the screening of the film "Todos Lo Saben (Everybody Knows)" on May 8.

Kristen Stewart, Ava DuVernay, Denis Villeneuve, Cate Blanchett, Robert Guediguian, Khadja Nin and Andrey Zvyagintsev LOIC VENANCE via Getty Images On May 8, 2018 for the screening of the film "Todos Lo Saben (Everybody Knows)."

Fan Bingbing Tony Barson via Getty Images Wearing Ali Karoui at the screening of "Everybody Knows (Todos Lo Saben)" on May 8.

Camila Coelho Dominique Charriau via Getty Images Wearing Ralph & Russo at the screening of "Everybody Knows (Todos Lo Saben)" on May 8.