The last few days before his eviction date could not be more awkward for the upstate deadbeat who is being tossed from his parents’ house, because, he says, they are spending the time torturing him with their strongest weapon — small talk. “I think it’s really harassing, honestly,” Michael Rotondo, 30, groused to The Post on Wednesday. “You throw me out of the house. You’re not going to give me more time. Why would you continue to try to talk to me? I’m not interested in doing that.” Rotondo is under court order to vacate the Syracuse-area home of Christina and Mark Rotondo by noon on Friday. The slacker said he’s packed 80 percent of his belongings — mostly books, computer equipment and legal papers — by chucking it into boxes. “I had recently helped a friend move, so I know how to take a pile of junk and just put into a box, which is what I did,” he explained. “You just throw everything into a box and just worry about it later.” The jobless Rotondo earned $3,000 last week by appearing on conspiracy-theorist Alex Jones’ radio show in Austin, Texas. That money, he said, will keep him afloat for the next few months. Rotondo said he was diagnosed in 2007 with paranoid schizophrenia but stopped taking his medication because he doesn’t believe he’s mentally ill. “They’re always telling me I need help, but they’re the ones causing the problem,” he said of his parents.
DETROIT — Shohei Ohtani was rolling along for five innings against the Tigers on Wednesday night. However, thanks to two rain delays, that’s all the Angels got from their young star. With Ohtani out of the game, Jose Iglesias’ two-run single keyed a five-run sixth inning and the Tigers went on to a 6-1 victory. Ohtani, starting for the first time since May 20th, allowed one run and three hits in five innings. He walked three and struck out five while throwing 83 pitches, including a 101-mph fastball on his final pitch. “I was ready to go back out there (after the second delay), but the medical staff said it wasn’t a good idea,” he said through a translator. “This is my first time experiencing something like this, so I had to listen.” Ohtani gave up a run in the first inning on two walks and a two-out single, and settled down after that. “It might have been the humidity — I was sweating, so I thought I was ready, but I guess not,” he said. “I saw 91 on the board, and I knew something was wrong. I haven’t thrown a 91 (mph) fastball since high school.” Detroit’s Nicholas Castellanos went 2 for 3 with two doubles against Ohtani, but was still impressed. “He’s got a powerful arm and good stuff,” he said. “He was already throwing hard, but he hit 101 to Jeimar (Candelario) in a big spot in the fifth. Not a lot of guys can do that.” Tigers starter Mike Fiers was also knocked out by the second rain delay in the top of the sixth, allowing one run and seven hits in 5 2/3 innings. The Tigers quickly took the lead in the bottom of the sixth, loading the bases against Cam Bedrosian (1-1) on a single, a walk and a hit by pitch. Greyson Greiner struck out, but Iglesias lined a two-run single to center to put Detroit ahead 3-1. Dixon Machado grounded to short, but Andrelton Simmons’ throw to the plate was too late to get JaCoby Jones. Leonys Martin and Castellanos followed with RBI singles off Jim Johnson to push the lead to 6-1. “This is a big win for us, because we’ve won two out of three against a really good team,” Castellanos said. “Now we can go for the series win tomorrow.” Iglesias sustained a hip contusion while sliding home, and sat out the final three innings. “I just banged — I don’t think it will be serious,” he said. Louis Coleman (2-0) got the win with 1 1/3 innings of relief. Ohtani walked Martin and Victor Martinez in the first before allowing Niko Goodrum’s two-out RBI single. “I don’t know if it was rust, I think he was just getting into a rhythm,” Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. “He’s had some games this year like that, where he’s getting a feel for his pitches early on.” The Angels tied it in the third when Albert Pujols’ two-out single drove in Mike Trout. Ohtani, who was throwing 91-mph fastballs in the first inning, hit 98 on his final pitch of the third to retire Victor Martinez on a soft liner to shortstop. “That’s a very talented young man,” Tigers manager Ron Gardenhire said. “He was throwing 90, 91 and then he reached back for 98 when he needed it.” The game was delayed for 23 minutes by rain at the end of the fourth inning, but both starters stayed in the game. Ohtani walked Martin with two out in the fifth and allowed a double to Castellanos before getting Candelario to ground out on a 101-mph fastball. The game was delayed again by rain in the top of the sixth, this time for 41 minutes. Coleman replaced Fiers to get the last strike of the sixth, and Bedrosian came in for Ohtani.
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Gov. Scott Walker to sign Wisconsin Foxconn bill Monday in Sturtevant Gov. Scott Walker Monday will approve up to $3 billion in subsidies for a Racine County flat screen plant, binding the state’s economic hopes and his own political future to the investment proposed by an Asian electronics giant. The 2:30 p.m. bill signing at Gateway Technical College in Sturtevant will clear the way for the Walker administration to negotiate a final contract with Foxconn Technology Group of Taiwan in the coming days. Walker and GOP lawmakers have promised that the Foxconn Technology Group plant will bring thousands of jobs and massive investment to Wisconsin, transforming the state’s economy. Democrats have questioned the price tag, saying that there’s too great a cost to the subsidies and exemptions from environmental rules that will be going to Foxconn. Wisconsin State Journal: State makes progress on some workforce goals, deems others ‘unreachable’
Kelli Jo Griffin took her four children to the voting booth in 2013 to teach them the value of democracy. Little did she know, she was breaking the law. Earlier that year, Griffin, 42, came off probation for delivering less than a hundred grams of cocaine. When she was convicted in 2008, she lost her right to vote. Felonies in Iowa are “infamous crimes” that immediately result in voting restrictions because they involve offenses of “moral turpitude.” Currently 56,500 felons are unable to vote in Iowa; only 7,400 of those are still in prison. “I’m a low-level felon, my crime was not against a person,” Griffin told Watchdog. Griffin’s lawyer informed her in 2008 that under the policy in place at that time, she would be able to vote again in 2013 upon completion of her probation. An executive order issued on July 4, 2005, by Democratic Gov. Tom Vilsack restored voting rights to disenfranchised felons who had completed their sentences and been discharged from parole. Over the next six years, 115,000 felons regained the right to vote in the Hawkeye State. Vilsack’s Republican successor, Terry Branstad, rescinded the order on his first day back in office in 2011. He had previously served as governor from 1983 to 1999. On average, about 20 applications a year have been approved since Branstad reclaimed the governor’s office. In 2015, 25 people applied for restoration of voting rights in the first three and a half months alone, but he only granted 17 requests the entire year. (A request for the full year’s number of requests went unanswered by the governor’s office.) Griffin said she did not know about the changed policy when she walked into her local voting center in Montrose, Iowa, tucked into the southeast corner of Iowa, across the Mississippi River from the onetime Mormon Zion of Nauvoo. A few weeks after the election, police arrested her for voter fraud and charged her with perjury. A jury later acquitted her of the charges, but she decided to challenge the law that a nonviolent crime could be considered “infamous,” a designation that carries with it — among other things — loss of the right to vote. The ACLU took the issue to court on behalf of Griffin in 2014. In Griffin v. Pate, the Iowa Supreme Court decided in a 4-3 decision that under the Iowa Constitution, a non-violent felony is an infamous crime. The loss disheartened Griffin and 20,000 other felons whose voting rights hung in the balance. Griffin said she was “devastated” by the decision. “I thought I had a good chance of winning. I appreciate the judges for hearing my case.” Griffin said she voted in elections before her arrest, and growing up with a father in law enforcement gave her an appreciation of how elections can affect her family’s livelihood. “We’re parents picking out school board members,” she said. “I had to give up that right because of my past. I should be able to vote for people who govern my children’s school.” Back to the legislature In his 44 page majority decision, Chief Justice Mark Cady explained that it is up to the legislature to amend the current law to allow non-violent felons to vote. “A new definition will be up to the future evolution of our understanding of voter disqualification as a society, revealed through the voices of our democracy,” Cady wrote. The ACLU plans to push for that, according to Veronica Fowler, the communications director for the Iowa ACLU, told Watchdog. “In my opinion, the majority ruling seems to invite the General Assembly to amend current Iowa Code to redefine ‘infamous crime’ for purposes of disenfranchisement as something other than all felonies,” state Rep. Mary Wolfe, D-Clinton, told the Des Moines Register. “I certainly think the average Iowan would not agree that all felonies, every category of felonies, reaches the level of infamous crimes.” Wolfe argues that felonies such as repeated drunk-driving arrests and drug-possession should not be considered infamous crimes. Arlene Victor, a 31 year volunteer for the Dubuque, Iowa Chapter of Mothers Against Drunk Driving, takes exception to that, at least as far as drunk driving is concerned. “It’s a serious crime. It should be taken seriously,” Victor told Watchdog.org. “A time period should be considered [for voting]. They are [potential] murderers, and their weapon is a vehicle instead of a gun.” Wolfe and other legislators are making the issue a priority, and mothers like Victor and Griffin will both be watching. “People who complete probation should have a right to vote,” Griffin told Watchdog. “I think that if you do all that is required of you should have your right to vote restored. Once I completed my probation they told me I was a productive member of society. Voting is being a productive member of society.”
A non-violent approach to crime prevention is being questioned by some in Chicago’s black community as being akin to racial profiling. In an effort to curb violence during the traditionally violent Memorial Day weekend, Chicago deployed an additional 1,300 officers, many of whom focused their patrols on the city’s lakefront and other downtown parks where groups of teens and teen gangs are known to congregate. According to the Chicago Tribune, “Police spent much of Memorial Day weekend tracking and chasing groups of teens through downtown for what often began as ‘borderline criminal behavior’ and sometimes ended in vandalism and fights. Officers shut down beaches and parks early, and ‘directed’ large groups of teens toward trains and buses.” Some of those teens were directed to commuter trains that operated on “express” routes that would take the teens several miles from the downtown area, most that were heading back to largely African-American neighborhoods. Edwin Yohnka, a spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois, told the newspaper that reports of police funneling groups en masse to express trains were “incredibly troubling.” TRENDING: Blue Wave Drying Up as Polls for NJ Senate Race Show Incumbent Dem. Struggling “Who made that decision?” he said. “How were decisions made about who was going to be put on that train?” Chicago police superintendent Eddie Johnson Johnson told WBBM-TV that nobody’s civil rights were violated and nobody involved was forced to leave via public transportation. “I know there were some questions about us forcing people to get on CTA buses and what I can tell you is this: We didn’t force anybody,” Johnson said Tuesday. “We directed people to different stops — it’s simply a public safety issue.” On a weekend when seven people were shot to death and dozens more wounded, Johnson said the police were simply trying to stop small incidents from becoming larger, more violent situations. Do you agree with this tactic used by Chicago police to quell youth violence? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “We had a few issues in the downtown area with individuals fighting, we responded rapidly and quite well to those incidents,” Johnson said. “Sometimes kids do goofy things, we all know that,” Johnson said. “Locking up 100 or 200 juveniles for being juveniles, I don’t think we want to do that. If they are committing actual crimes, we will arrest them.” Deputy police chief Al Nagode said there was a concentrated effort by the police to monitor large groups of teens in the downtown area. “They came down here specifically to cause problems,” Nagode told reporters. “They were running in and out of traffic, they were confronting different groups, they were running into businesses doing different activities that were borderline criminal, mostly nuisance, so the officers have to work that fine line of, do we (go) out there to arrest somebody.” “A lot of it is the nuisance that they’re doing. It’s part of what we get with teens,” Nagode said. “The resources it would take me to lock up 100 kids who were fighting would be tremendous, so we have to mitigate, stop the problem and do what’s necessary to make (everyone) safe.” Nagode said once orders were given for authorities to start clearing beaches and parks, officers directed the teens toward buses and train stations. They mostly complied as officers opened gates and moved people through. RELATED: Veterans Upset After Facebook Takes Down Event To Honor Fallen Brothers “We’re just not randomly picking (a train) stop and getting them out of there, we’re affording them an opportunity to leave the area,” Nagode said. “And once they realize a lot of times they will be placed under arrest if it rises to that level, a lot of people will thankfully take that option and get out of there.” Craig Futterman, a University of Chicago law professor who works on civil rights and police accountability matters, told the Tribune the police strategy appears to be a form of racial profiling. “(Police should not) pick on or single out groups on the basis of race for selective treatment or discriminatory treatment. That’s a problem,” Futterman said. Johnson claims the notion of clearing areas as opposed to moving in to make hundreds of arrests is something departments in large cities like New York and Los Angeles have also adopted. While police believe their methods were successful for reducing the instances of more crime, one city official says the police were too leniant. Alderman Brian Hopkins believes making more arrests sends a stronger message. “I think that when you have people committing assaults, disorderly conduct, criminal trespass to property when they’re entering the parks after they’re closed for the night, we need to take another look at the tactics and consider making more arrests,” Hopkins told the Tribune. “I think the pendulum has swung a little too far in the direction of leniency.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Most Americans are behind the NFL’s new ban on kneeling during the national anthem, according to a SurveyMonkey poll released Wednesday. Frequent protests by players who chose to kneel during the anthem marred the past two NFL seasons, prompting the league to create a new policy in which all team personnel who are on the sidelines prior to a game must stand during the anthem. Teams will be fined if anyone violates the policy. The survey found 54 percent of the American public support the league’s new ban, with 43 percent opposing it. Among Americans who describe themselves as NFL fans, 56 percent approve the league’s new policy and 42 percent oppose it. TRENDING: Blue Wave Drying Up as Polls for NJ Senate Race Show Incumbent Dem. Struggling The poll, which features responses from 1,795 American adults, was conducted after the NFL announced its new policy on May 23. President Donald Trump praised the decision, having long criticized anyone who kneels during the anthem as unpatriotic. The new policy does allow players to stay in locker rooms during the anthem, however. “I think that’s good,” Trump said when first told of the new policy during an appearance last week on “Fox & Friends.” “I don’t think people should be staying in the locker rooms, but still I think it’s good. You have to stand proudly for the national anthem or you shouldn’t be playing. You shouldn’t be there. Maybe you shouldn’t be in the country.” Democrats were far more likely to oppose the ban than the general public, with 65 percent of those identifying as Democrats disapprove of the ban and 62 percent saying kneeling during the anthem has nothing to do with patriotism. Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison, a prominent Democrat, called for a boycott of the NFL to force a reversal of the policy. Friends who know me, know that I love football. But I won’t be watching this NFL season because of the unfair cowardly and idiotic kneeling ban. #BoycottNFL — Rep. Keith Ellison (@keithellison) May 27, 2018 “Friends who know me, know that I love football,” Ellison tweeted Sunday. “But I won’t be watching this NFL season because of the unfair cowardly and idiotic kneeling ban. #BoycottNFL.” RELATED: Outrage Follows After Samantha Bee Launches Profane On-Air Attack on Ivanka Trump The SurveyMonkey online poll was conducted May 24-25, and has a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points. A version of this article appeared on The Daily Caller News Foundation website. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
“I’m all or nothing. I’m either having fresh vegetables or I’m eating fried fish,” says Katie Lee, whose show “Beach Bites” returns to the Cooking Channel on June 7. “You can deep-fry anything, and I would eat it.” Growing up in West Virginia, the chef started cooking at age 4 with her grandmother, Dora. That early passion translated into a thriving culinary career. Lee, 36, has published three acclaimed cookbooks and appeared on countless cooking shows. She received a Daytime Emmy nomination last year for her role as co-host of the Food Network’s “The Kitchen.” A longtime resident of Water Mill, she’s also become an advocate for local ingredients, from fresh fish caught in the Atlantic to wheat grown in Amagansett. Whether it’s peanut-butter fro-yo or oysters by the bay, Lee explains how to eat like a true Hamptons insider. The Dock House 1 Long Wharf, Sag Harbor; Order: Fried flounder + waffle fries “Blink and you’ll miss it. It’s very small and on the wharf. It’s very casual, and you order at the counter. Sometimes I like to get it to go and eat by the water. Try the fried flounder — such a nice light breading — and waffle fries. I love a waffle fry.” Buddha Berry 125 Main St., Sag Harbor; Order: Peanut-butter frozen yogurt “I have always been a frozen-yogurt fan, but Buddha Berry is a cut above. I like peanut butter with hot fudge, peanut-butter sauce, smashed Reese’s Cups — and maybe a little bit of cookie dough if I am feeling naughty.” Bell and Anchor 3253 Noyac Road, Sag Harbor; Order: Montauk Pearl oysters + Champagne “It’s in the same marina where I keep my boat. On Sundays they have $1 oyster night, which I am hesitant to say because it’s already crowded. I love Montauk Pearl oysters. They are briny, creamy and sweet. To me, they are the perfect oyster.” East Hampton Grill 99 N. Main St., East Hampton; Order: Ribs + martini “East Hampton Grill is an all-time favorite. I love the atmosphere, and they make the best martinis anywhere around. But the ribs are just such great quality. The meat falls off the bone, and the barbecue sauce is sweet and tangy. You have to use your fingers. You can’t be precious about eating ribs.” The Beacon 8 W. Water St., Sag Harbor; Order: Cheeseburger + rosé “I love going to the Beacon at sunset because it’s right on the water. It might not be the restaurant people would think to go to for burgers — because they do a lot of really nice dishes — but they have the best cheeseburger in the Hamptons. It’s simple and perfect, and with a glass of rosé, it’s my idea of perfect night.” Provisions 7 Main St., Sag Harbor; Order: Tempeh Reuben sandwich “Provisions is a little health-food mart, and they have my favorite sandwich, the tempeh Reuben. It’s the stuff that dreams are made of. It’s a piece of tempeh with grated carrot, sauerkraut and a piece of melted Monterey Jack cheese. I’ve been going there for years.” Carissa’s Breads 68 Newtown Lane, East Hampton; Order: Honey oat bread “I think Carissa Waechter is such an incredible baker, and her business is awesome. Her wheat is grown in Amagansett and milled locally. Her shop looks like a Nancy Meyers movie. It’s so cute. If I’m going to someone’s house for dinner, the hostess gets a loaf of Carissa’s bread.” Bostwick’s Chowder House 277 Pantigo Road, East Hampton; Order: Lobster roll “It’s the best for roadside seafood. All of the seafood is local and fresh. I love the lobster roll. You really feel like you’re on vacation when you’re there.” Nick and Toni’s 136 N. Main St., East Hampton; Order: Fried zucchini + roast chicken + tartufo “Nick and Toni’s is a Hamptons classic. If it’s your first time in the Hamptons, it’s where you need to go. They’re famous for their zucchini chips and roast chicken with pancetta and garlic. But save room for dessert, because the tartufo is to die for. Request it as soon as you sit down for dinner, because they run out. It’s really sad if you don’t get any.” Tastes of summer Savor some of these culinary triumphs from the Hamptons. Fans of much-loved Almond can grab ’n’ go to the beach this summer with favorites on offer at the new L&W Market, opening adjacent to the Bridgehampton restaurant (which also has an outpost in NYC’s Flatiron ’hood). Prepared foods straight from Almond’s kitchen can be found among other takeout items, such as its own frozen pastas, pastries, dressings and sauces. Fresh vegetables and eggs from nearby farms and the chefs’ own line of kimchi round out the fare, available for easy order and pickup via an online app. Maison Vivienne, Southampton Elevated flavors from the South of France land in Southampton with the new Maison Vivienne, a casually elegant scene for lunch and dinner. Classics like roasted heritage chicken for two and salad niçoise are accented with modern touches like charred escarole hearts and grilled langoustines. The luxurious venue boasts cathedral ceilings and exposed 17th-century beams, along with bar and lounge spaces, an onsite herb-and-vegetable garden and an outdoor terrace available for private events. 631-500-9276 The newly renovated Claude’s at Southampton Inn goes back to its roots as a comedy club with a lineup of live entertainment this summer, including jazz performances, poetry readings and more. The refreshed indoor and outdoor dining spaces serve as the perfect backdrop for executive chef James Carpenter’s menu, featuring vibrant meat, poultry and fish dishes made with vegetables and herbs from the inn’s own gardens. Plus, Carry-out Claude’s will cater the perfect beach picnic. Hooked, Montauk Veteran husband-and-wife foodies Brian and Gillian Mooney bring their open-kitchen and counter-service destination, Hooked, to Montauk this season. Primed to be a hot spot for lunch or a late afternoon snack, the restaurant focuses on casual, fresh seafood dishes. Diners will find options like pearl oysters, clams and steamers snatched from local sources, as well as land-dwelling fare like burgers and baby back ribs. Save room for the signature tiramisu and admire the sunset from one of the outdoor picnic tables. Il Mulino, East Hampton The elegance of New York gets a breezy dose of East Hampton’s Georgica Pond at this handsome new Il Mulino outpost. Indulge in mouthwatering pastas and antipasti — your new summer diet — and enjoy the same comforting hospitality that defines the expanding brand. Don’t fret if you’re not lucky enough to snag a coveted reservation at this new buzzy location — it also offers takeout. Lee Brian Schrager is the founder and director of the Food Network & Cooking Channel South Beach and New York City Wine & Food Festivals.
A driver who ran over a bicyclist in Long Island City on Tuesday afternoon had a suspended driver’s license, cops say. Cyclist Aaron Padwee, 45, was riding on 21st Street near 46th Avenue when a driver opened a car door right in front of him, sending him up and flying into the street where a box truck operated by Austin Osorio ran him over and killed him. Cops determined that Osorio, 32, had a suspended license. He was charged with aggravated unlicensed operator for driving with a suspended license. State Sen. Michael Gianaris, who is pushing a bill that would stiffen criminal penalties against unlicensed drivers who kill or seriously injure someone. “It’s a horrifying epidemic throughout our city and the legislature has been slow to do anything about it,” said Gianaris. The Senate unanimously passed the bill last month and now it’s in the assembly’s court. In January, an unlicensed man was charged with only misdemeanors after he struck and killed a 13-year-old cyclist riding through Bedford-Stuyvesant.
When David Kaplan and Jenna Gerbino first laid eyes on their wedding venue, it was love at first sight. Kaplan, who co-owns East Village cocktail mecca Death & Co., and his publicist fiancée were instantly smitten with the North Fork vineyard Bedell Cellars. More than just the acclaimed pours or stylish winery, though, it was the gorgeous surroundings that seduced them; they married there last June. “You’re so close to the city, but you feel a million miles away — you can escape to this completely other world,” raves Kaplan, who calls the combination of great beaches and wineries a “two for one.” Indeed, Long Island’s East End is arguably one of the world’s most romantic places, and its breathtaking reputation has made this slim spit of land a mecca for perfect dates, proposals and weddings. Kelli Delaney, who runs the lifestyle bible KDHamptons and married her husband, Dr. Mark Kot, in Southampton, points out that the Hamptons are not only romantic but photogenic — increasingly critical in our Insta-world. “It’s so rare that within a matter of five minutes’ drive you could go from a farm stand to one of the best beaches in the country,” she tells Alexa. “There is something magical about the light, the way it hits the water, so wedding photos are extra gorgeous.” To guarantee such swoony snaps, stake out a choice spot — like the bright-red St. Andrew’s Dune Church (call it Dune, like the locals) and its glorious gardens in Southampton, or Jack Lenor Larsen’s art-filled 16-acre estate and sculpture garden, LongHouse Reserve, in East Hampton. Also in the heart of East Hampton, Mulford Farm makes for a perfect ceremony venue; the rare, intact English colonial from 1680 overlooks the village’s iconic windmills. Vineyards like Bedell or Sagaponack’s famous Wölffer Estate (celebrating its 30th anniversary this summer) have become iconic for bucolic walks down the aisle. Public-relations exec Britta Towle Morris married her financier husband, Rowan Morris, at Wölffer two summers ago; the couple had long considered it their favorite date-night spot. “We have been going to Wölffer for years to celebrate everything from Valentine’s Day to birthdays to New Year’s, so when we got engaged, it was one of the first places I thought of,” she says. “What makes it so special is you can sit there, on a beautiful outside terrace, and see the sun setting over the vineyards for dinner.” Cinephiles Kendra and Nathaniel Feeley, meanwhile, hosted their 2013 wedding at the (now-closed) Montauk Movies. “Nat and I bonded over movies throughout our relationship — cinema was a motif of our romance,” she tells Alexa. “Our names were on the marquee, we had popcorn, Champagne and old-timey movie candies for the guests. And before the ceremony, we had a slideshow movie playing as a preview.” You can stage a similar scene as soon as the fire-ravaged Sag Harbor Cinema is rebuilt — construction is slated to begin this summer. Wedding planner Sarah Duke of Duke + Van Deusen in East Hampton says marrying out east has another advantage: expertise. Caterers and tent-rental companies are total pros, thanks to the surfeit of charity benefits and parties held in the area by demanding socialites every summer. She suggests considering a wedding weekend in July, which is now often less busy than June or September when it comes to working with those vendors (couples have started shying away from what they assume is peak season). And always make a Hamptons wedding a three-day — not a one-evening — event: perhaps a beach clambake on Friday, a swanky ceremony on Saturday and a kitschy pool party come Sunday morning. Then again, the relaxed rules here mean you can make the entire event into a giant beach party, as one of Duke’s clients did. “The wedding favors were beach bags filled with sunscreen and towels, and after the ceremony the guests changed into their bathing suits for a party on a beach in front of the groom’s grandmother’s home.” The Hamptons are also the perfect spot for those ready to propose, as financier Michael Van Camp discovered last summer. He was dining at Calissa in Water Mill with his now-fiancé, web developer Chris McLaughlin, and a group of friends. Swinging on the hanging chairs on its terrace, “He just looked at me and proposed. It was entirely spontaneous,” Van Camp recalls (they will marry at the same spot this fall). Delaney of KDHamptons says she frequently sees such impromptu proposals on summer weekends. Those who plan ahead, meanwhile, will often book a photographer (she recommends Deborah Kalas) to lurk unobtrusively and capture the moment. For a showstopping question-popping, Delaney suggests hiring a catamaran from Heron Charters for a sunset cruise before sailing in to Montauk’s Navy Beach, where you can prearrange to meet a party of your pals. The Hamptons can rekindle the spark for long-established couples, too. Why not take a hike together through the 2,000-plus acres of the wildlife-filled Mashomack Preserve on Shelter Island (look for the nests of breeding eagle pairs), amble down the dreamy Cooper’s Beach in Southampton at sunset or tackle the rugged beachfront at Montauk’s Shadmoor State Park? There you can clamber over the cliffs down to the surfing beach at Ditch Plains and share burritos and iced coffee from beloved kitchen trailer Ditch Witch. Sip a freshly made mai tai at Lynn’s Hula Hut, a romantic tiki bar on Montauk Pier, or cuddle under a blanket for an al fresco surf ’n’ turf supper at Duryea’s. If you want to be both smart and sexy, there’s nowhere better than the wood-paneled rooms and deep-leather armchairs of the East Hampton Public Library. But a warning: If you embrace the sentimental side of this sliver of Long Island, expect the Hamptons to become a permanent fixture in your relationship. The Kaplans plan to return to Bedell next month for their first anniversary. “We’ll get the wedding crew back together for a day for a catch-up and wine tasting,” he says. “I imagine we’ll make it a yearly thing.”
The Tigers may have won on Wednesday, but it was a goose who stole the show at Comerica Park in Detroit. In the midst of a sixth-inning rain delay during a game between the Tigers and Angels, a goose made its way onto the field and decided it didn’t particularly want to leave, at least, not immediately. The scene on the field descended into chaos, as the goose kept flying around, landing intermittently on the outfield grass or infield dirt, while the grounds crew tried to chase it down. However, they didn’t have any luck, and the bird just kept on flapping its way around the field and leading the grounds crew on a literal wild goose chase. Eventually, the bird decided it was time to go, so it flew up into the air and attempted to make its way out of the stadium. “There he goes. He gone. In cruise control now,” the Fox Sports West announcer said. That was when disaster struck. TRENDING: Browns player promises big gift to fans if Cavs win NBA Finals The goose crashed into one of the video boards on the facing of the third deck and plummeted down into the seats. Thankfully, a nearby veterinarian quickly attended to the goose. “I knew there was a reason he couldn’t fly out,” the veterinarian, Roach, said, per USA Today. “I ran down there and told people, ‘Hey, I’m a veterinarian,'” Roach said. “They let me through and I was able to grab him.” The Tigers later said the goose was fine and had been released out of the stadium. We've been informed the goose is healthy and has been released outside the ballpark. #RallyGoose — Detroit Tigers (@tigers) May 31, 2018 Are you glad that this goose turned out to be OK? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Wildcard updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “My wife would have had a heart attack if she saw that,” Tigers manager Ron Gardenhire said after the game, per ESPN. “We’re glad the goose is OK. That was not fun to watch when they were chasing him around and he went into the stands; that was scary.” The goose may have even sparked a rally, as the Tigers scored five runs in the bottom of the sixth inning and won the game 6-1. RELATED: 18-year-old switch pitcher has MLB scouts salivating “I don’t know,” Gardenhire said when asked if the goose had helped spur his team on to victory. “We broke up the goose eggs, OK.” It was a happy ending to a story that could have ended with a seriously injured or dead goose, which nobody would have wanted. Instead, there was no harm, no fowl. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Two Ohio representatives have submitted a bill that would curtail the kinds of local government debit and credit card misuse that, in one recent instance, allowed the administrator of a small village to charge more than $700,000 in personal items to taxpayers. House Bill 312, introduced late last month, would ban debit cards for all but “law enforcement purposes” and require local government entities to establish policy limiting credit card use. Though it provides some latitude in how those policies are written, it does specify that the policy must include rules on credit limits, who is authorized to use the card, and what constitutes acceptable use. The bill appears to have received at least some tepid support among municipalities. Kent Scarrett, executive director of the Ohio Municipal League, told Watchdog.org that though his group is always concerned about state mandates on local government, it remains neutral on the bill. “We don’t oppose it – there were some changes we sought and received,” Scarrett said. “It’s kind of in the vein of good government and setting some guidelines … it’s something we’ve already been talking to our members about, and we’re kind of following along.” The bill, sponsored by Reps. Dave Greenspan, R-Westlake, and Kirk Schuring R-Canton, comes in light of a recent report by the state auditor, summarizing $1.2 million in local government card fraud discovered through 35 investigations since 2011. In its most high profile example, the administrator for the Village of Mt. Sterling – with just over 1,700 residents – used over $724,000 in public funds to buy personal items ranging from a washer and dryer for his girlfriend, to a camper. Nearly half of the expenditures were made using the village credit card. The fraud, which began as early as 2012, was only discovered after the manager, mayor and the village’s fiscal officer simultaneously retired in 2016. The manager, Joseph Johnson, faced 10 felony counts and ultimately entered into a plea deal in which he was sentenced to 10 years in prison and an agreement to repay the $724,000. After finding that many of the instances of fraud stemmed from poor or lacking credit card policies, State Auditor David Yost sent out a survey to local government entities to determine the extent to which local government controlled credit card use. Though roughly 90 percent of respondents claimed to have some form of policy in place, a majority of those did not spell out “allowable expenses” as part of that policy. “The response and findings were solid and provided the framework for the auditor and several state legislators to pursue … policies to safeguard credit-card use and protect taxpayers,” a representative for the Auditor’s office, Benjamin Marrison, told Watchdog.org. “In the meantime, the findings have encouraged local government employees, citizens and others to more closely examine credit and debit card spending, limits and policies.” A representatives of the State Auditor’s office said that HB 312 was written in close consultation with the auditor’s legislative team. Illinois’ most prominent action on limiting credit card use came in a state Supreme Court ruling nearly a decade ago against the former mayor of the City of Pekin, who used the town’s credit card for gambling-related cash advances during his term beginning in 2004. After he was caught, People v. Howard made its way to the the Illinois Supreme Court, which disagreed with the former mayor’s argument that since he repaid the withdrawn funds from his personal accounts, it was not misconduct. It ruled that the violation of the policy from the outset was a violation of the Illinois Constitution, regardless of whether the money was ultimately returned. Since then, the Illinois Municipal League has warned members that even paying a double-occupancy fee for an accompanying spouse at a professional development event should be booked first with personal funds and reimbursed minus the fee. Like Ohio, Illinois’ rules on local government credit and debit cards appears to be at the discretion of local entities. The Ohio bill also addresses increased oversight of credit card use, which the auditor advocated as part of its report. The report highlighted a township in Franklin County where the fiscal officer spent nearly $40,000 on unauthorized purchases over two years, including retail stores, amusement parks and more. In the ensuing investigation, it was uncovered that local policy made the officer responsible for not only deciding who received the township’s credit cards, but also for signing the monthly payment checks to those cards, and “maintaining support for expenditures.” “In other words, she had total power over using and accounting for debit and credit cards,” the report said. “With no one looking over her shoulder, it was a situation ripe for exploitation.” Provisions in the bill help enforce checks and balances, including regular reviews of credit card purchases by boards and councils and, for instances where local government has limited home rule, rules against appointing the fiscal officer to be the credit/debit card compliance officer mandated by the bill. The ban on debit cards appears to stem from concerns expressed in the auditor’s report that such cards can be used for difficult-to-trace cash withdrawals. If passed by the Ohio legislature, local governments in Ohio would have three months to establish a policy, or submit to a board policy. The Ohio Senate and House are scheduled to reconvene floor sessions in September.
The decision of three west coast Costcos to reject money for the Children’s Miracle Network has it a nerve. For the most part, the responses were respectful, but direct. “Any company that cannot support the citizens and the Constitution of the US WILL NOT have my support,” said one reader of the story. And this next one represented many others: “I loved... Costco.... PASTED [sic] TENSE.. I'm paying my balance and canceling my membership. I pay 100.00 a year to shop there and they are rejecting charities because it's a gun store!?! This is infuriating!!!” Some read louder than others. “LOOKS LIKE ILL[SIC} BE GOING TO SAMS CLUB FROM NOW ON.” All caps. Others aren’t as dogmatic. “Looks like I might be giving up my Costco membership. I am not going to give up on the 2nd Amendment.” One spoke for a lot of happy Costco customers: “I really hope this is a fake story because if I have to stop shopping at Costco it is going to really make me mad.” Sorry, this is not a fake story. Yet another: “And now Costco goes on the list of companies with which I no longer do business.” One reader came up with a plan, suggesting “the people/employee who complained should pay the $500 dollar donation.” Costco is learning, what you do in Reno, Nevada, does not stay in Reno, Nevada. Along with Reno, Costcos in Citrus Heights and Roseville, California have turned away $500 per store designated for the Children’s Miracle Network. The simple reason: the giver is Sacramento Black Rifle. And each donation comes with a banner, and these Costco stores want nothing to do with guns. Sort of. They sell gun safes. More on that in a moment. According to the Costco corporate office, the problem began when customers complained about the banner in one of the stores. “I think it’s because a lot of the shootings that is going around,” Costco corporate rep Julian Vento explained to me. “I do know that there were… Costco members who complained about banners and that’s why it was taken down.” I used the ellipses because Vento started to say “Costco employees” but corrected himself. The exact same issue occurred in my original story: The Citrus Heights Costco reportedly told Black Rifle it was an employee complaint, before changing it to a “customer complaint.” What are the odds this happens again at the corporate level? That doesn’t explain why the money was rejected in Roseville, where the banners never went up before the money was returned. Vento said “it’s a local, regional decision.” Not a corporate decision. But, to be honest, he didn’t sound all that convinced himself. As we discussed the reasons behind the rejection, it felt increasingly corporate. After all, the Roseville manager who allegedly made the decision refused to comment and would only refer me to the corporate office. And that brings me back to Costco corporate rep Julian Vento, who said “I do own guns myself” after admitting the money was turned away because of “that gun thing going on.” I asked Vento about the same store, Roeseville, where there is an apparent pro-marijuana sign on display. I say “apparent” because, again, the Roseville manager would neither confirm nor deny the simple question of whether there are other banners in his store. “Nobody has complained about marijuana or alcohol banners,” Vento insisted. I didn’t mention alcohol, though it is noted in the original story, so apparently he had that nearby. Costco also sells gun safes, as I mentioned earlier, but Vento has no issue separating it from actual guns. “It’s about guns in general.” “But isn’t the idea that people put guns in those gun safes?” I asked. “That is just a safe so, we don’t actually sell guns.” Gotcha. But you are okay promoting marijuana use, even though you don’t sell marijuana. Meanwhile, the response over at Sacramento Black Rifle has been spectacular. “We’ve been getting calls from literally everywhere” store manager Nate Woodward told me. He said they’ve received “really positive response. A lot of support.” Over at Costco, the response has not be so glowing. “I know I’ve kind of heard a little bit about it” Vento said, shortly after he told me “not so much.” I asked him about the number of cancellations received over the brouhaha. “That one I cannot disclose on. But I believe I’ve heard that probably just as much as you’ve heard.” Oh. I’ve heard a lot. So that can’t be good news for Costco.
David Mamet hasn’t written a hit play in years, but the one he’s just finished has the potential to be a blockbuster. It’s about Harvey Weinstein, the disgraced movie mogul who’s expected to turn himself in to New York authorities Friday on sexual assault charges. Mamet wrote the play, “Bitter Wheat,” earlier this year at the urging of his longtime producer Jeffrey Richards. Mamet turned in a first draft a couple of weeks ago, and Richards, sources say, has approached John Malkovich about playing the Weinstein character. Mamet tipped his hat about the new play in February to the Chicago Tribune: “I was talking with my Broadway producer, and he said, ‘Why don’t you write a play about Harvey Weinstein?’ And so I did.” Mamet wrote about sexual misconduct — and the murkiness that often surrounds it — in his terrific 1992 play “Oleanna.” It’s about a college student who turns on her professor after they’ve had an affair. She accuses him of exploitation and ruins his career. The play was vibrant and controversial — I remember couples yelling at each other on the street after seeing it — but only a brave soul would stage it in these #MeToo times, since Mamet clearly sides with the professor. The plan is to open Mamet’s new play in London. His last Broadway play, “China Doll,” starring Al Pacino, was a fiasco. Pacino had trouble learning his lines, teleprompters were installed all over the stage, audiences walked out angrily at intermission, and critics savaged the production. Sources say Mamet is wary of another run at Broadway unless his Weinstein play gets a good reception in England. He’s got a shot with Daniel Evans, the young director who’s in talks to do it. Evans staged a well-received revival of Mamet’s “American Buffalo” in London a few years ago and is now running the Chichester Festival. But here’s Evans’ challenge: Mamet has been known to turn in a first draft and not do the work to make it a good play. “China Doll,” about a crazy multimillionaire and a private jet, was pathetic. As The Post reported, Mamet attended a couple of disastrous previews and then disappeared, leaving Pacino to fend for himself with teleprompters and bad reviews. “Al was left hanging, and took the brunt of it,” a production source told me at the time. “David was gone.” Another source says: “David hands in the play, and then he’s done. He doesn’t hang around.” Malkovich, a terrific actor we haven’t seen enough of lately, should be wary. If I were his agent, I’d demand that Mamet be at every rehearsal and preview and be prepared to rewrite what’s not working. This new play could be a great comeback for Malkovich, who hasn’t set foot on a Broadway stage since he electrified New York in Lanford Wilson’s “Burn This” in 1987. I’ve seen a lot of great performances over the years, but few have come close to Malkovich’s turn as Pale, a brilliant, troubled coke addict. I can still see him practically climbing the walls of the Plymouth Theater. Malkovich as Weinstein is a great idea. But I hope Richards has the power to get another good play out of Mamet. After producing first-rate revivals of Mamet’s “Glengarry Glen Ross” and “Speed-the-Plow,” Richards let “China Doll” ride to infamy. Don’t screw it up this time, Jeffrey. You can hear Michael Riedel every weekday morning on “Len Berman and Michael Riedel in the Morning” on 710 WOR radio.
John Goodman isn’t paying attention to the Roseanne Barr controversy — and he couldn’t care less about ABC’s decision to pull the plug on “Roseanne” and its Emmy campaign. “I wasn’t gonna get an Emmy anyway,” Goodman said in a video Wednesday, which was obtained by ET. “I’ve been up there [11] times already, and if I didn’t get one I’m not gonna get one,” the actor added. Up until now, Goodman — who served as Barr’s on-screen husband for more than a decade on “Rosanne” — has remained silent on her controversial tweet about former Obama aide Valerie Jarrett. “I would rather say nothing than to cause more trouble,” the 65-year-old explained. Asked about the tweet that his longtime co-star sent out Tuesday, comparing Jarrett to an ape, Goodman claimed that he didn’t pay it — nor the backlash — any mind. “I don’t know anything about it,” he said. “I don’t read it.” Describing how he’s been doing now that “Rosanne” has been cancelled, Goodman said: “Everything’s fine.” While Barr has apologized for her tweet about Jarrett, she has also repeatedly defended it — calling her words “insensitive, not racist.” ABC decided to cancel “Rosanne” on Tuesday and then suspended its “For Your Consideration” Emmy campaign the following day. Judging from the comments of voters, though, the show wasn’t likely to win anyway. “You can’t put some alt-right scumball on your network and give her a platform,” animation producer Deb Zak told Vanity Fair back in April. “I don’t care if somebody has a conservative viewpoint, that’s fine. She has a hateful viewpoint.”​
A powerful modern-day cannon fires water bottles as cannonballs - smashing strong walls in mere seconds. The humble, ordinary water cooler bottle used in offices all across America becomes a mighty missile when loaded into this amazing cannon - the BCB Wall Breaker. Without using any explosives whatsoever, the cannon remarkably uses just compressed air to blast the bottles through tough targets. With the tragic rise in school shootings, the BCB Wall Breaker has the potential to save countless lives of American children in future active shooter situations. For many years, BCB has had an outstanding track record innovating for Special Operations Forces. DRONE SLAYER: POLARIS MRZR ATVS, CHEVY TRUCKS, ARMED WITH NEW ANTI-DRONE WEAPON Elite military forces, such as Navy SEALs and Rangers, have very rigorous standards. Designed for special operations, this cannon meets and surpasses those high expectations. But on home soil, this cannon also has great potential for law enforcement and fire departments. The BCB Wall Breaker is a tool to help provide escape for those who are trapped by active shooters in schools, held hostage in a hotel by terrorists or penned in by fire in an apartment building. These are a number of ways it could help save lives. Ordinarily, police and military use explosives to breach walls. By using air pressure instead to launch and water bottles as ammo, breaching can be far less dangerous – especially for hostages. Escape for students in school shootings Fired from this amazing cannon, ordinary water bottles become powerful tools to save the lives of children in active shooter school attacks. MARINES' NEW SWITCHBLADE DRONES WILL UNLEASH LETHAL MINI MISSILES Imagine students barricaded in classrooms with no way to escape. The shooter is roaming the hallways. The only exit is the door to the hallway. If students tried to escape via the hallway, they could be greatly at risk. Outside the school building, police could roll up these water cannons and quickly punch holes in the walls of every classroom providing large escape holes. If students have been wounded, first responders can use the hole to accelerate access to medical care. In both these instances, escape and medical care for wounded, seconds are vital and can mean the difference between life and death. The cannon can also be useful for perpetrator apprehension. An active shooter will expect law enforcement to intervene through doors and windows. With this cannon, law enforcement can fire the cannon at any wall to create their own “door.” SOFIC: WHERE SPECIAL OPERATIONS SHOP FOR CUTTING-EDGE WEAPONS This instant access at an unexpected point can provide a crucial element of surprise to stop and capture the shooter – potentially reducing risk to both the students and staff trapped in the school and first responders during apprehension. PODCAST: FROM GEORGIA COTTON FIELDS TO ARMY TERRORIST HUNTER – HEAR ABOUT THIS COMMANDER’S DEADLY MISSIONS Weapon to fight terrorists on home soil Similar to active shooter scenarios in schools, the cannon could be useful in the event of a large-scale Mumbai-style terrorist attack where civilians are hunted and held hostage. It could be used against terrorists using vehicles as weapons to drive at civilians in the street. For example, cannons could be positioned in advance to protect 4th of July crowds. If a terrorist drove at the crowd, the cannon could blast the water bottle that would tear through the vehicle and stop the attack. PODCAST: BREACH ENEMY DOORS + BEER BOTTLES WITH THIS INSPIRING NAVY SEAL Rescuing fire victims Fire departments could also find the cannon useful in fires to provide different access points. US ARMY GETS EVEN DEADLIER WITH FUTURISTIC NEW NIGHT VISION GOGGLES If fire has made stairwells inaccessible, for example, the cannon can even punch through ceilings and floors, enabling firefighters to rescue people. If the hallway is consumed with fire, it could be used to punch through walls separating apartments to gain access to those who are trapped. How does it work? Throwing a water cooler bottle by hand at a wall is not going to do much. Such is the power of the BCB pneumatic design. Using only air pressure – no explosives whatsoever- it turns those simple everyday water cooler bottles into formidable cannonballs, blasting holes in walls. The water bottle is loaded into the cannon and is fired. When the bottle hits the wall, the bottle shatters spreading the kinetic energy out across a wide area. A large access hole is punched into the wall with water spraying out. This unconventional approach to breaching walls helps to minimize the risk of injury to those who are trapped and reduces collateral damage inside the buildings too. How powerful is the cannon? The BCB cannon can blast through all sorts of challenges. MEET THE US MILITARY'S WARSHIP KILLER: THESE NEW MISSILES WILL SINK ENEMY SHIPS With mere water bottles, it is powerful enough to punch holes through pretty much any civilian wall it could ever encounter - from solid brick walls through to double layer breeze-block walls. Metal is also child’s play for this cannon. The Wall Breaker can also tear through cars, vans and trucks with ease. Unique ammo Water cooler bottles as ammo may sound too fun to be serious – but it is actually a very smart idea. This ammo is everywhere. Water coolers are found in offices, schools, gyms, malls, hotels and more all over America. When a crisis like an active shooter in a school erupts, this means additional ammo can be readily harvested from the immediate environment if necessary. Since they can be filled with a range of materials, the water bottles also become highly flexible projectiles that can be adapted within moments to meet mission needs. FUTURISTIC NAVY SEAL BOAT DUBBED 'BATMOBILE' Tailored for scale of impact and collateral damage, a water cooler bottle can be filled with sand or even dirt scooped up from a school playground to provide a different impact if necessary. For example, water would be selected for a classroom to mitigate risk for children, but another material might be chosen for an empty gymnasium when the objective is tearing down a wall to allow a large force to enter as rapidly as possible. How does the cannon deploy? The Wall Breaker can be deployed in a number of ways. One is wheeling it up by hand and it only takes one member of law enforcement to roll and fire. For rapid agility and flexibility, the cannon can be mounted on a vehicle like the back of a pick-up truck and blast bottles from there. In a sort of ‘castle-rampart’ style, the cannon can also be set up to defend a fixed spot. If necessary, this BCB cannon can even be fired remotely. The Wall Breaker’s range varies depending on factors like the ammo contents, weight, and the environment.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. French President Emmanuel Macron this year reintroduced national service, also known as conscription, to France in order to “foster patriotism and heal social divisions.” At a time when our nation is the most hyperpolarized it has ever been, when our young generation increasingly questions the very worth of America itself, and our country, particularly new generations is at the worst health in history, it is time to consider whether we should implement national service ourselves. National service is in common use currently across democratic nations in the world as a form of civic duty amidst the freedom one is provided, just like paying taxes. It usually takes the form of mandatory military, or civilian service for objectors or those who choose, for all adults upon reaching the age of 18. Conscripts are usually paid some form of nominal salary and are required to serve usually between six months to two years. Some nations have it only for men while others have it for both men and women. Israel’s IDF is perhaps the most widely known conscription force, requiring all citizens, male and female, to serve in the military with very few exemptions. Conscription was common to the nations of Western Europe during the Cold War for obvious reasons, but still remained for many years afterwards until it was usually phased it out during the 2000’s. Amidst the current time of great social turmoil in Europe, it appears many governments have realized a nostalgia for the widespread benefits of universal service. Beyond France, Sweden recently reintroduced mandatory military service for the first time in about a decade. In Finland, now over 80% of young men perform service. Norway in 2016 expanded its conscription to include women. Clearly conscription is on the return for a variety of reasons. In the United States, the idea of national service is as old as our nation itself. In the Revolutionary era, national service existed in quasi-form as part of general citizen participation in the various state and local militias. It was a point of debate among the Founding Fathers, split between those who favored a professional standing army versus general universal service. Over the centuries national service has gone from its militia form to a variety of permutations, perhaps most notably the wartime draft first officially enacted by the federal government during the U.S. Civil War. It was instituted again during World War I, raising an army of millions. In 1940, just before U.S. entry into World War II, over 71% of the population polled wanted immediate national military service, resulting in a peacetime draft that would soon be utilized for active service after the attack on Pearl Harbor. The peacetime draft would continue afterwards into the 1950’s, utilized during Korea and our numerous Cold War bases around the world, as well as during the Vietnam War when public dissatisfaction finally saw its end in 1973. The call for national service has also materialized in numerous civilian programs, such as the Public Works Administration of the 1930’s, as well as the still-existing Peace Corps and the Corporation for National Service’s AmeriCorps. The Selective Service, which requires all men to register for potential conscription upon reaching age 18 and be ready until age 25, remains in place since its use during World War I’s draft. In 2016, Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton called for women to also be included in Selective Service registration and the United States Senate passed a bill supporting such as well. Theoretically, the Selective Service system could even now be potentially activated for conscription, although it likely would be better for our country to go through a more thorough deliberative process, with pilot programs, studies, and a national discussion. National service has always remained present in our national discourse since, with the Universal National Service Act, among other variations, regularly being proposed throughout the years in Congress and the idea seeing occasional bipartisan calls for enactment. It should be very much apparent why national service in the United States could solve much of our current social problems. Military service promotes discipline, grit, determination and teamwork. It gives life skills and supports physical fitness, both at the time and afterwards. It introduces people to those from all walks of life, as the U.S. proudly remains one of the world’s most diverse organization. Furthermore, our nation is experiencing an increasing gap between civilians and service-members with a slew of negative externalities and that seems difficult to solve. According to Pew Research, in 1980 veterans accounted for 18% of U.S. adults. In 2016 it was 7% and declining. National service sounds daunting, but our country is at a difficult point right now. It seems it’s at least an idea worth considering and exploring by our policymakers and discussing among our citizenry.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Editor's Note: This column was co-authored by Jane Robbins. *** Mark Twain enjoyed repeating the observation that Richard Wagner’s music is better than it sounds. Early in the Common Core controversy, the national standards’ proponents made similar claims about the quality and effects of the standards. Ignore what you’re seeing with your own eyes – the standards are better than they seem! History repeats itself with the subject of “personalized learning” (PL), better described as “depersonalized training.” As with Common Core, parents are discovering that PL – which involves putting children on computer screens and using sophisticated software to track their thought processes and create algorithms to predict their future lives – might not be the way to go. So now the same people who created Common Core propaganda are putting their marketing skills to work for PL. A new “messaging document” has arrived from organizations called ExcelinEd and Education Elements. The former is the new name for Jeb Bush’s outfit in Florida, which is all in on replacing teachers with machines; the latter is a consulting firm that helps schools do this. These organizations are trying to avoid the mistake they made with Common Core – allowing the truth to seep out and prompt a parent backlash. They may be a little late. The backlash has begun, both from parents who object to specific PL schemes such as Chan Zuckerberg’s Summit charter schools, and from observers who warn about the Orwellian mindset and data-crunching dystopia connected with machine-driven education (see here and here). But the authors aim to head off opposition with well-chosen language. The report replicates the condescending theme of the Common Core campaign: that parents are either too ignorant or, frankly, too stupid to see that this scheme will be wonderful, so as experts we must explain it in single-syllable words they can understand. “A lack of understanding, alongside a lack of knowledge of the benefits of personalized learning,” the report intones, “remain (sic) a consistent barrier to large-scale systemic change and support.” The report also annoyingly suggests (as does standard commentary on any opposition to progressive schemes) that the opposition is motivated by “fear” of anything different. It doesn’t occur to these people that “disagreement with” doesn’t constitute fear. But it’s a good motivator nevertheless. Anyway, in keeping with these themes, the report suggests that the PL pushers shouldn’t make PL sound like a dramatic change. The ed-tech crowd does tend to get excited about the “transformational” benefits of machine training, but according to the authors, they should tone it down a bit to keep from alarming those ever-fearful parents. The report advises: “A helpful guideline is to convey that change is required but that it will be more of an evolution than a revolution. . . . Even though some of the potentially big changes . . . may be true, experience tells us that very few . . . will occur in the first few years of implementation. For that reason, there is little reason to raise hackles in the earliest phases of discussion.” In other words, keep the public in the dark until so much money has been spent that it’s too late to reverse course. Brings back fond memories of Common Core. PL proponents should also deny that PL technology will reduce interaction with teachers, isolate kids from their peers, and expose them to the dangers of screen time. But although the report links to a couple of articles arguing that PL is possible without large doses of technology, let’s not kid ourselves. The PL utopia envisioned by these organizations and their allied tech corporations is basically all tech, all the time. Simply denying the concerns, without explaining why they’re misplaced, won’t work. As for the report’s insistence that PL won’t replace teachers, tell that to “innovation” guru and PL proponent Tom Vander Ark, who warned school administrators that PL would require a “different staffing model” and a “tough set of conversations at your next (teacher) bargaining.” The report doesn’t address the question whether PL actually improves academic achievement. Chalkbeat reports some of the evidence that any improvement is meager – and some research actually shows a decrease in “student engagement” with PL, contrary to what the pushers are instructed to proclaim to skeptical parents. But it’s still early enough for Jeb and his minions to make rosy predictions, and this report tells them exactly how to do it. After experiencing the duplicity of Common Core, though, parents may be less trusting of this next great thing emanating from the experts. It will take more than a shiny marketing campaign to make this music sound good.
The Daily Telegraph reports: The US should learn the lesson of Iraq, President Bashar al-Assad said on Thursday, threatening to expel American troops from Syria and retake areas from its Kurdish allies. In the interview with RT, the Russian state’s international broadcaster, Assad raised the prospect of conflict with US forces if they do not leave Syria. He vowed to recover territory where American troops have deployed, either through negotiations with Washington’s Syrian allies or by force. Assad, who is backed by Russia and Iran, appears militarily unassailable in the war that has killed an estimated half a million people, uprooted around 6 million people in the country, and driven another 5 million abroad as refugees. Read more here.
ATLANTA — Happy Vargas Day. If Jason Vargas wasn’t pitching for his spot in the Mets’ rotation on Wednesday, he was at least trying to avert disaster for his team, which through a combination of Monday’s doubleheader and injuries had exhausted its bullpen in recent days. The veteran lefty rose to the occasion with his best performance in a Mets uniform, leading a 4-1 victory over the Braves at SunTrust Park. With Thursday’s Mets starter, Seth Lugo, in contention for a rotation job, Vargas pitched like a man trying to avoid the bullpen. Lugo will take Noah Syndergaard’s spot in the rotation Thursday, and the Mets will potentially have a decision to make thereafter. Syndergaard, who is on the disabled list with a strained ligament in his right index finger, is expected to throw a bullpen session over the weekend before the Mets decide if he is ready to rejoin the rotation. After the Mets finished with a four-game series split, Vargas, whose ERA dropped from 10.62 to 8.53 with five shutout innings in which he allowed two hits and one walk, was asked if his latest performance demonstrates he should keep his starting job. “I don’t really have anything to say on that, man,” Vargas said. “That’s not really my call and I just do my job.” Manager Mickey Callaway has clearly considered the bullpen as an option for Vargas, who signed a two-year deal worth $16 million with the Mets in February. “He pitched great,” Callaway said. “He’s going to be a valuable part of this team no matter where he pitches and it’s just good for him to have successful outings like he did tonight.” Jeurys Familia pitched a scoreless eighth inning — against the heart of the Braves lineup — before Robert Gsellman entered in the ninth and recorded his second save in six opportunities. Familia got help to end the eighth, when diving Amed Rosario smothered Nick Markakis’ grounder and glove-flipped to Asdrubal Cabrera, who barehanded the toss to start an inning-ending double play. “It’s tough, but we practice that a lot,” Cabrera said. “I think that was the play that saved the game.” Adrian Gonzalez’s run-scoring single in the eighth — his second RBI in the game — gave the Mets breathing room after Johan Camargo had blasted a solo homer the previous inning that sliced the Mets’ lead to 2-1. In the ninth, Brandon Nimmo slammed an RBI double that gave the Mets a fourth run. Vargas, working on three days’ rest, was removed after 65 pitches and Tim Peterson, who was selected from Triple-A Las Vegas earlier in the day, entered for the sixth. Peterson, in his major league debut, allowed one run, getting the ball to Familia with a 2-1 lead. Nimmo blooped an RBI single in the seventh that gave the Mets a 2-0 lead after Rosario raced for a two-out triple. Rosario, who entered 8-for-24 (.333) over his previous seven games, was among the team’s best offensive performers on the road trip. Gonzalez’s RBI double in the fourth gave the Mets their first run. Jay Bruce doubled leading off the inning and scored on Gonzalez’s ground-rule double that bounced into the right-field seats. Charlie Culberson, who doubled with two outs in the second, was the only runner to reach scoring position against Vargas. After intentionally walking the ensuing batter, Vargas retired nine straight batters before Julio Teheran reached on Rosario’s error in the fifth. But Vargas recovered to retire Ender Inciarte and then departed before having to face the Braves a third time through the batting order. “He was done,” Callaway said. “He had a tough schedule in-between, three days’ rest, he threw a bullpen [session] at 2 o’clock in the morning or something in Game 2 of the doubleheader [Monday]. We gave him the option and he was tired.”
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Think of it as a revived Silk Road, Chinese President Xi Jinping said in 2013 when he announced China would proudly sponsor a multi-decade international commercial and infrastructure development project -- notionally running from China through Central Asia and connecting to points beyond. Yes, a benign Silk Road where all prosper. The project would have a maritime development component as well. India, however, was immediately suspicious. China and India are rival powers, militarily and economically. They have unresolved territorial disputes in the Himalayas that occasionally involve gunfire between their armies. Indian military planners, however, saw more threatening scenarios. China is an ally of India's foremost enemy, Pakistan. Highways and railroads serve commercial purposes -- like shipping silk -- but they are military assets. China might use improved highway and rail links in Central Asia to quickly deploy Chinese military forces in Pakistan. China's illegal artificial island-building campaign in the South China Sea is a maritime development project encroaching on other nations' sovereignty In 2018, we know a lot more about China's Belt and Road Initiative. The BRI has an expanded official name, one adorned with silk: "The Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st century Maritime Silk Road." Yes, land and sea. The land component, which Beijing refers to as simply "the Belt," consists of highways, railroads, pipelines and other infrastructure projects built within a very broad Central Asian corridor and connecting to Europe, Southwest Asia and the eastern Mediterranean littoral. The BRI's Maritime Silk Road links China by sea to Africa and southwest Asia and, via the Suez Canal, Europe. On the BRI's sea leg, China will help build seaports, improve old ports and port facilities and improve the ports' regional land transportation infrastructure. China is interested in developing a sea shipping route through the Arctic Sea to connect China to Europe. The Road might reach Norway's ice-free port at Kirkenes. The BRI will be completed by 2049, the 100th anniversary of the Communist takeover of China. BRI benefits don't stop with building big things. Cash-rich China promises to invest in nations that participate in Belt land and Road sea projects. What developing country could turn down this no-strings-attached offer? India suggests potential BRI participants unwrap the silk camouflage and carefully consider a Chinese Road project where Beijing is pouring concrete, the deep-water port of Gawdar in Pakistan's Baluchistan province (which borders Iran). China is building a huge navy. Gawdar is a perfect base for China's blue water fleet -- an Indian Ocean Chinese base challenging the Indian Navy. Nevertheless, India sees some projects as potentially beneficial and has signed a BRI Memorandum of Understanding with China Xi is trying to allay suspicion. In April, at a BRI conference held in the Chinese city of Boao Xi said the BRI is "...neither the Marshall Plan after World War II nor a Chinese conspiracy." The BRI "may be China's idea, but its opportunities and outcomes are going to benefit the world." However, Xi has not convinced analysts at the Washington, DC-based Center for Advanced Defense Studies that the BRI is benevolent. In 2017 two CADS analysts published a paper title "Harbored Ambition," which examined 15 Chinese-funded seaport projects. They concluded "Chinese (project) analysts unofficially discussing port investments routinely prioritize China's national security interests over the objective of mutually beneficial economic development, contradicting the position of official policy documents." Many BRI projects are expensive and not economically viable for private construction firms, so they are built by Chinese state-owned companies. How much will the BRI cost? No one knows; two to three trillion dollars is the rumored estimate, but it is unclear if even the three-trillion figure accounts for Chinese state subsidies. Should China insist on providing Chinese "security assistance units" to protect construction operations in dangerous areas, some countries might see that as violating their sovereignty.
An FBI agent who allegedly quit the bureau over his belief that the Hillary Clinton email investigation was rigged will testify before the House of Representatives, The Hill reported. The joint investigation between the House Judiciary and the Oversight Committees — led by Republican Reps. Bob Goodlatte of Virginia and Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, respectively — has been a source of consternation for Republicans and Democrats alike. Conservatives have complained about the slow pace of the examination into how the Clinton email investigation was conducted, noting that only two witnesses have appeared before it. Democrats, of course, have complained that it exists at all, since anything that distracts from the endless investigation into how President Donald Trump is really a Russian plant is simply frivolous — particularly if it implicates former FBI Director James Comey, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton or former President Barack Obama in any wrongdoing. Well, now we’re finally about to see some fireworks. Three top witnesses are going to testify before lawmakers: John Giacalone, who was in charge of the Clinton investigation for the first seven months; Bill Priestap, assistant director of the FBI’s counterintelligence division; and Michael Steinbach, former head of the FBI’s national security division and the man who succeeded Giacalone. TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover All three are of particular interest, especially since Priestap was the supervisor of FBI agent Peter Strzok, whose anti-Trump text messages have thrown the objectivity of the entire investigation into doubt. However, the real headliner here may be Giacalone. Shortly after then-FBI Director Comey announced he wouldn’t be pursuing charges against Hillary Clinton for the email server, Fox News pundit Judge Andrew Napolitano wrote a column in which he claimed Giacalone had quit the bureau because he believed the investigation was rigged. In the Oct. 28, 2016 column, Napolitano claimed at that at the start of the Clinton email investigation, “agents and senior managers gathered in the summer of 2015 to discuss how to proceed. It was obvious to all that a prima-facie case could be made for espionage, theft of government property and obstruction of justice charges. The consensus was to proceed with a formal criminal investigation.” “Six months later, the senior FBI agent in charge of that investigation resigned from the case and retired from the FBI because he felt the case was going ‘sideways’; that’s law enforcement jargon for ‘nowhere by design,'” Napolitano wrote. Do you think that the Hillary Clinton investigation was rigged? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “John Giacalone had been the chief of the New York City, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C., field offices of the FBI and, at the time of his ‘sideways’ comment, was the chief of the FBI National Security Branch.” “The reason for the ‘sideways’ comment must have been Giacalone’s realization that DOJ and FBI senior management had decided that the investigation would not work in tandem with a federal grand jury. That is nearly fatal to any government criminal case. In criminal cases, the FBI and the DOJ cannot issue subpoenas for testimony or for tangible things; only grand juries can,” Napolitano continued. “Giacalone knew that without a grand jury, the FBI would be toothless, as it would have no subpoena power. He also knew that without a grand jury, the FBI would have a hard time persuading any federal judge to issue search warrants.” Napolitano speculated there were several possible reasons that the case went “sideways.” One was that Obama feared having to testify if Clinton went to trial (he had sent emails to the private server, after all, meaning he was aware of it). There was also the fact that a Clinton indictment could have led to Trump becoming president, and Obama simply couldn’t countenance that. (Less than two weeks after Napolitano’s column was written, it must be noted, that reason became moot.) Either way, if the investigation had indeed gone “sideways,” it would need to have done so with approval from the highest levels — certainly James Comey and possibly Barack Obama. RELATED: NYT Lies About Trump Crowd Size, Then Admits Crowd Was 550% Bigger Than It Said Whether or not Giacalone has any concrete evidence of this or not is another issue entirely. My guess would be no, given that we’re going on two years since Comey’s infamous news conference and we still haven’t heard anything to that effect from Giacalone. However, of all of the congressional testimonies we’ve seen over the past few years, this could be one of the most underreported. John Giacalone may open up a gigantic can of worms for Comey and Clinton — one that drags them back in the spotlight for reasons significantly less pleasant than their book tours. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions first irked President Trump by recusing himself from the special counsel Russia investigation following some backlash over the answers he gave at his confirmation hearing last year. Trump thought it a weak decision and called the AG "beleaguered" on Twitter. The public shaming continued Wednesday when the president began quoting retiring Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC), who appeared on "CBS This Morning" to suggest Trump should've reconsidered his AG pick. Rep.Trey Gowdy, “I don’t think so, I think what the President is doing is expressing frustration that Attorney General Sessions should have shared these reasons for recusal before he took the job, not afterward. If I were the President and I picked someone to be the country’s.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 ....chief law enforcement officer, and they told me later, ‘oh by the way I’m not going to be able to participate in the most important case in the office, I would be frustrated too...and that’s how I read that - Senator Sessions, why didn’t you tell me before I picked you..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 ....There are lots of really good lawyers in the country, he could have picked somebody else!” And I wish I did! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 Still, Trump has not fired Sessions. Trump probably won't be quoting another of Gowdy's interviews. On Fox News Tuesday, the chairman of the House Oversight Committee refuted Trump's claim that a "spy" infiltrated his 2016 campaign. In fact, Gowdy is "more convinced" than ever that the FBI acted appropriately to address Russian interference.
Tennis superstar Serena Williams is known for her daring style both on and off the court (in case you missed it, she just wore a catsuit at the French Open). But when it came to her new namesake fashion line, “Serena,” she served up some ice-cold shade on one ubiquitous trend. “We all know how I feel about the cold shoulders,” Williams tells The Post of last year’s beloved shoulder cutout trend. “We were like no way. Cold shoulders; I had to put my foot down.” The line debuts today on Serena Williams’ website with 12 core pieces — and the remainder will drop throughout the summer and fall. With prices ranging from $35 to $250, the 36-year-old says her togs can take women from the boardroom to the club and anywhere in between. “I wanted to show [clothes] for different aspects of my life. [This collection] encompasses a lot of the things women do,” Williams tells The Post. And that includes her newest role: mom to daughter Olympia, 8 months. “I’m a mom now. It’s really changed how I wear clothes,” Williams says. “I want to be comfortable and practical but I want to look good. It’s almost as if I want to look better than I did before to prove that I can.” She plans to drop approximately 75 pieces, including metallic anoraks, athleisure, sleek menswear shirts, parachute pants, denim jumpers, pencil skirts and figure-hugging dresses that come in black, pink and leopard. There’s also a modern update on the Juicy Couture tracksuit coming in a later launch, which has high-waisted trousers and a matching top with bell sleeves. “When I was younger I used to wear Juicy Couture and this has a super modern vibe to it. This is actually one of my favorite pieces,” she says. Williams — who has modeled in fashion shows for designer pals and had a line with HSN prior to this one — had to majorly multi-task last year in order to pull off this line launch: Olympia was born in September, she got married in November and she’s been working hard to return to tennis. So the creative process for the “Serena” line “took a little over two years probably because in between there was a marriage and a baby so it may have taken a bit longer,” she says with a laugh. “We wanted to get it right and make sure everything was perfect. There’s a lot of practicality in it but at the same time you can be sexy and stylish and trendy,” Williams says, adding, “But not over the top.”
New York City’s most expensive apartment listing on the open market is also its weirdest. With an asking price of $85 million, the 15,000-square-foot duplex penthouse at the Atelier — located at 635 W. 42nd St., near less-than-glam 12th Avenue — costs $5,666 per square foot. That’s nearly double the record for the Hell’s Kitchen neighborhood. But what’s really mind-boggling are all the over-the-top extras that come with the place (which, by the way, boasts Hudson River views but no outdoor space). Among them: two Rolls-Royce Phantoms — a hardtop and a convertible — as well as a Lamborghini Aventador roadster. There is also a $1 million, 75-foot yacht, with five years of docking fees on the Hudson, plus a summer stay in a Watermill mansion that rents for $350,000 a season. But wait, there’s more: a year’s worth of weekly dinners for two at Daniel Boulud’s 65th Street flagship, a pair of courtside season tickets to the Brooklyn Nets (valued at around $225,000), and a year of services from a live-in butler and a private chef. The kicker is out of this world: two $250,000 seats on a Virgin Galactic space flight. So what gives? Penthouse owner Daniel Neiditch, who is also the building manager of the Atelier and the president of the building’s condo board, is the man behind the marketing. And the 39-year-old property investor, who owns the brokerage firm River 2 River Realty, says it’s all about the chance for a lucky buyer to live their own lavish life. “Someone not from New York can [move here and] have a New Yorker’s lifestyle and point of view,” said lifelong New Yorker Neiditch, who previously lived in the building. “In a way, I’m offering my lifestyle. I’m offering a way for a foreigner to jump right in.” “Going to outer space was always a dream of mine,” added Neiditch. And, in fact, the courtside seats, cars, Hamptons house, butler and yacht are all his own — and he insists he has enough to go around. “It’s not like I’m going to be out on the street. I have another Hamptons house. I have other cars,” Neiditch said, adding: “It’s not that I am selling stuff that I don’t want. It’s all stuff that I thought created a nice package.” Other real-estate insiders are skeptical of the whole thing, especially given the fact that the penthouse has been on the market for five years already and Neiditch hasn’t adjusted the ask. “People only pile up giveaways when they won’t reduce the price. It has never made a lot of sense to me,” a top Manhattan broker said. “You are millions of dollars overpriced and you think throwing in a $250,000 car is going to make it better?” Manhattan broker Ryan Serhant, who also stars on the series “Million Dollar Listing New York” on Bravo, said that while luxe incentives are unusual in New York, that’s not the case in markets like Los Angeles, where homeowners have more space to sprawl. “If you have a house with a helipad and it comes with a helicopter, that makes sense,” he said. “But in New York you have to ask: Where are you going to park a car and when are you ever going to use it?” While Neiditch says he will pay any taxes associated with the transfer of his lavish playthings — which are worth around $5 million all told — he will not allow the buyer to deduct the items’ value from the asking price even if they don’t want his stuff. “If they don’t want the items that come with the sale, they can sell them,” Neiditch said. There is another sticking point: That $85 million does not buy you an actual turnkey apartment. Instead, you get a bunch of smaller pads. The sales package includes a $2 million construction credit, because the “penthouse” is currently configured as 13 separate units, filled with month-to-month renters. Neiditch has already commissioned architectural plans for the conversion, and it would take 30 days to evict the tenants, he said. “Getting the permits and planning could take six to nine months. The actual construction could probably be done in a year to 18 months,” said lauded New York architect Peter Pennoyer, who frequently handles condo combinations. He also doesn’t think a $2 million credit will go very far. “People typically spend a minimum of $500 per square foot, so $7.5 million would be a reasonable starting point [for the renovation]. But people often spend much more than that.” “It’s called deceptive advertising, plain and simple." - The president of a major New York brokerage Several prominent Manhattan brokers take umbrage with the fact the listing does not disclose that the units are not combined. However, it does not seem to violate any rules, including those of major listings clearinghouse StreetEasy.com. “It’s called deceptive advertising, plain and simple,” the president of a major New York brokerage stated. Neiditch denied that there’s any deception. He also claimed to have already turned down a $50 million offer. “We’ve got overseas people coming to see it,” Neiditch said. “We have people in India who know that [Indian media billionaire] Subhash Chandra bought a triplex in the building [in 2012] and are eyeing [this penthouse].” If Neiditch gets his way, it will be a potential game-changer for how business is done. But that’s precisely why his wheeling and dealing has earned so many eye rolls. “How do you sell something that is insanely overpriced? You throw in a bunch of stuff and get attention,” the top Manhattan broker said. “But at the end of the day . . . you pay on a square-foot basis, and no dinner for two is going to make it a better deal.” This article originally appeared on the New York Post.
Dear Dave, My wife and I want to begin teaching our son how make a budget and live on one. He’s 16, and he has a part-time job and a hand-me-down car. Is this a realistic idea? Mike Dear Mike, Your son is at a great point in life to learn how to make money behave. Even in his situation, when he’s still living at home, there are plenty of things he can include in a budget. There’s gas for his car, along with maintenance and insurance. He’ll need to save a little money — maybe even for college — and I’m sure he’ll want some spending cash, too. Sit down, and teach him how to make a written budget by figuring out the upcoming month’s income and expenses ahead of time. Also, make sure he knows how to properly balance and reconcile his bank account. It’s still your responsibility to provide him with the basic necessities at this point. But I love your willingness to teach your son how to handle money intelligently. The sooner he learns some basic money management principles, the sooner he’ll be able to handle his finances responsibly in the real world! —Dave
It’s wrong. It costs too much. Put those arguments together, and you have a potent political message on criminal justice reform, evidenced by the electoral success of a pair of initiatives in Oklahoma aimed at reducing incarceration rates and reallocating funding to drug treatment programs. Right on Crime state director Andrew Speno characterized his organization’s support for questions 780 and 781, both of which were approved on election day, in primarily fiscal terms. “Were dumping all this money into the system, and when Oklahoma has the highest incarceration rate of women and the second incarceration rate overall it tells us something: Oklahoma is not working and we need to fix it,” said Speno, whose organization bills itself as the “one-stop source for conservative ideas on criminal justice.” Speno and his organization have argued that ballot initiative 780 represents an important first step toward fixing the state’s fiscal problems. “We faced a severe budget crisis last year, a $1.3 billion shortfall, so lawmakers don’t have a choice but to look at criminal justice reform just like they look at healthcare, every statute needs to be evaluated for its cost effectiveness,” he said. The initiative, which was approved 58-42 percent, reclassifies a number of non-violent drug and theft related crimes from felonies to misdemeanors. Most notably the law reduces simple drug possession from a felony to a misdemeanor and increases the threshold for felony theft or forgery from $500 to $1,000. The companion measure, the Rehabilitative Programs Fund Initiative, was approved 56-44 percent. It establishes a “County Community Safety Investment Fund” and empowers the state Office of Management and Enter­prise Services to calculate the amount of money saved as a result of the incarceration-reducing reform, and then reallocate that sum from the general fund to the investment fund. Money in the investment fund will then be spent on rehab programs such as drug and mental health treatment, professional training and educational initiatives. Joining the conservatives of Right on Crime in support of both proposals were the liberals of the American Civil Liberties Union. Allie Shin, director of philanthropy and strategic initiatives at the ACLU of Oklahoma, lauded the approval of the initiatives as “an area where good fiscal policy and good moral policy align.” Shin argued that support for the reforms hinges on the question of whether the public believes there are what Shin calls “spare Oklahomans,” or individuals who have forfeited their right or ability to serve as productive members of society, and who instead will remain a burden on society indefinitely. “Rather than continuing to create felons for nonviolent offenses, we should decide if there are spare Oklahomans. I personally don’t think there are, and if there are not we should consider what we can do to help these people.” Shin, like Speno, calls 780 “the right first step to make sure all Oklahomans get the help they deserve.“ While the initiative is vague with regard to who will have the final say on the allocation of funds, it stipulates that the funds be dispersed proportionally according to the population of each county. According to Speno, counties will be given a significant degree of oversight with regard to how the money is spent. Speno said the two ballot initiatives were largely being viewed as a “litmus test” by lawmakers eager to gauge the public’s appetite for serious criminal justice reform. And he suggested their success will open the door for further reforms now that legislators are confident voters are behind them. ‘Understand the ramifications’ While Speno and Shin celebrate what they see as the moral and fiscal benefits of the reforms, some in Oklahoma’s law enforcement community remain skeptical of the voter-approved changes even while expressing broad support for the principle of overhauling the system. Oklahoma City Fraternal Order of Police Vice President Mark Nelson said he has no problem with saving the state money and increasing treatment options for drug offenders. But he described the ballot initiatives as “some of the most lenient drug laws that the country has,” and added that the public does not “seem to understand the ramifications of these specific initiatives.” Among those troubling ramifications is the lack of a habitual offender statute to ensure that authorities can protect the public from individuals who are arrested repeatedly for drug possession and property crimes perpetrated to support their drug addiction. Nelson argued that confining prosecutors and law enforcement officials to the threat of a misdemeanor as leverage to coerce a change in behavior is insufficient. He pointed out that the maximum sentence for a misdemeanor is one year. Because of Oklahoma’s overcrowded jails, inmates typically serve a fraction of that. Nelson and others in law enforcement remain doubtful that the threat of a few months in county jail will be sufficient to prompt an otherwise uncooperative person to assist in an investigation or to begin to address an addiction. Speno is more confident in the wonder-working powers of positive reinforcement in behavior modification. He argued that while not all addicts want to get clean, many do, and research suggests that positive incentives such as the possibility of having one’s record expunged can serve as powerful tools in correcting destructive behavior. Speno’s assertion regarding the efficacy of positive reinforcement is supported by the encouraging effects of similar reforms implemented in Texas, where in 2007 the state’s policymakers allocated $241 million for residential and non-residential treatment-oriented programs for non-violent offenders. In the year after these reforms were implemented, there was a 5 percent drop in murders, a 4.3 percent drop in robberies, and a 6.8 percent decline in forcible rapes. Additionally, the number of parolees convicted of a new crime declined 7.6 percent from 2007 to 2008, despite an increase in the number of parolees. Nelson acknowledged that the results of the Texas reforms are encouraging, but pointed out that Texas had a larger budget for treatment programs and maintained a habitual offender statute. “We all want the same goal here, but you can’t put different ingredients in this pot and expect the same results as Texas,” Nelson said. But he acknowledged that the public has spoken out in favor of significant criminal justice reform. “If this starts a conversation between the public and lawmakers,” he said, “then that would be a good thing.”
At a ceremony on Arlington National Cemetery’s hallowed grounds in 1985, President Ronald Reagan pondered the depths of sacrifice of those who die defending our nation on battlefields near and far. “The imagination plays a trick,” President Regan said. “We see them like the Founding Fathers, grave and gray-haired.” But he reminded his listeners that most of the fallen were quite young when they died “and they gave up two lives – the one they were living and the one they would have lived.” For many of the years since President Reagan made this observation, ours has been a nation at war. Flag-draped coffins have been greeted by spouses and young children. Bereaved parents must do the unthinkable and bury their children. The TV news, newspapers and websites have featured the fresh, young faces of men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our country. Americans know about these terrible losses. But as a young veteran who had just left the Marines, I felt they didn’t care. Then Oakville, Missouri, showed me I was wrong. It happened in June 2010. My friend, Cpl. Donald Marler , was in Helmand Province in Afghanistan. He and I spoke briefly over Facebook one day. We joked about a mutual acquaintance and our shared dislike for a tactical vehicle known as an MRAP – just a mundane conversation between buddies. Two days later, I got the call that Don had died when the MRAP he was riding in during combat operations overturned in a canal. He was only 22. A grateful community paused to honor and remember Cpl. Donald Marler in June 2010. And on Memorial Day, a grateful country does the same for all those who lost their lives protecting our country. Don was a great Marine. He skipped high school graduation just so he could get to boot camp a little early. In the Marine security detail at Camp David, where I served with him, he filled jobs normally reserved for higher ranking sergeants or staff sergeants. Don excelled in some of the toughest schools in the Marine Corps. He had volunteered to deploy to Afghanistan and to go on patrol when he was killed. As I made my way to his funeral, I was cynical. This tremendous guy had died for his country, but I figured only Don’s family and friends, fellow Marines, and perhaps a few veterans at the local VFW would care. I was wrong. Hundreds of people lined the roads and overpasses to pay their respects as Patriot Guard riders in full force escorted Don’s body to the funeral home. Two trucks from the local fire station raised a flag over I-55. At Don’s funeral, every pew was full. It was standing room only. On the way to Jackson Barracks National Cemetery, businesses posted signs: “Rest in Peace Cpl. Donald Marler.” Firefighters and police officers turned out to show their respects. People stopped their cars on the side of the road and stood as the casket went by. The local Holiday Inn provided free and discounted rooms to Marines who came in for the funeral. A rental car company gave us cars to get to the service. I was reminded on this day that Americans know what’s at stake for men and women in uniform. More importantly, I was shown that they honor those sacrifices with their words and their actions. Don was a warrior. He got his orders changed so he could go to combat. He volunteered for convoys and patrols so he could fight alongside and protect his brothers. He exemplified the Marine motto – Semper Fidelis – always faithful. On the 66th anniversary of D-Day, Don joined a special group of Americans who stood in the way of tyranny. On this day, we stop to remember those Americans like him who didn’t make it home. Those who gave up the life they would have lived for the lives we are able to live now. Those men and women knew freedom isn’t free. They were willing to pay the highest possible price for it. A grateful community paused to honor and remember Cpl. Donald Marler in June 2010. And on Memorial Day, a grateful country does the same for all those who lost their lives protecting our country. We stand up to protect those who made it home. We honor and care for those who “shall have borne the battle.” We must live our lives in a way that’s worthy of the sacrifices they made for us.
Reed Hastings, the founder, chairman and CEO of Netflix, had quite a run last week. The darling of streaming saw his company pass Disney and Comcast in market cap as his stock hit an all-time high of $352.90 a share. Hastings also notched a multiyear deal with former President Barack Obama and wife Michelle’s production company, Higher Ground Productions, to produce “films and series for Netflix, potentially including scripted series, unscripted series, docu-series, documentaries and features,” the company said. You could say both Hastings and the Obamas did fairly well over the past decade or so. Netflix in 2007 had a $3 share price and was mailing DVDs to people. The Obamas were poised to enter the White House and then had a reported net worth of $1.3 million, according to CNN Money. Fast-forward to 2018. The Obamas have an estimated combined net worth of $75 million, according to published reports, mainly derived from speeches and a two-book deal with Penguin Random House. Hastings’ move to streaming helped him amass $4.7 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. see also Obamas ink production deal with Netflix WASHINGTON — Former President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle,... The Obama-Netflix production deal — on which which neither party will put a value — was most likely helped along by new Netflix board member Susan Rice, who served as Obama’s national security adviser. Nevertheless, the Obamas are certainly on their way to becoming very rich in the post-White House phase of their life. You could say they have become true-blue capitalists, using their clout to create a new media empire spanning books, documentaries and feature films. This capitalist bent is quite a departure from Obama’s policy decisions when he was in the White House. I say welcome to capitalism, Mr. President. A little too late, yes, but welcome anyway. Congratulations!
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. President Trump is working to fulfill his campaign promise to seat judges who respect both the rule of law and the Constitution. Trump fulfilled this pledge when he nominated Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, who has a strong record of interpreting the law as it is written, not as he wishes it were written. The president should also be commended for nominating similarly fair-minded and qualified judges for lower courts. Thanks to the hard work of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, 38 of these well-qualified nominees have been confirmed. But liberal senators, led by Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., continue to obstruct the president’s nominees by abusing Senate rules and procedures. As a result, total judicial vacancies are ballooning. When Trump took office, there were 108 judicial vacancies. Now, there are 176 current and known future judicial vacancies. Why have vacancies nearly doubled? Because members of the Democratic minority are hell-bent on preventing Trump from putting judges on the court who will respect the Constitution. They’d much rather have judges willing to legislate liberal causes from the bench. Under Schumer’s direction, Democrats have embarked on an obstruction campaign to create gridlock in the Senate, impeding or even halting the confirmation of Trump’s nominees. Democrats are weaponizing Senate procedure in an attempt to run out the clock on the Trump administration. One tool they’ve latched onto is the cloture process. Rather than allowing the Senate to directly proceed to a vote on a nominee as used to be the norm, Democrats are using this to force up to 30 hours of debate on a nominee, even when that “debate” consists of an empty Senate chamber or senators talking about unrelated topics. In many cases, dozens of hours of the Senate’s time have been wasted “debating” nominees who have unanimous support, simply letting the clock run down without mentioning the nominee once. By insisting on going through the cloture process for nearly every nominee, Democrats have slowed confirmations to a glacial pace. Their plan is to slow the confirmation of qualified Republican nominees so that they can preserve liberal dominance of the courts. They are less interested in seating fair-minded judges than they are in confirming what Gorsuch called “politicians in robes” — liberal politicians, of course. They fear Trump’s nominees because they know that they would be impartial judges who would protect constitutional rights, including free speech, religious liberty, and the right to bear arms. For the sake of our courts, as well as the credibility of the Senate, this blatant obstruction of qualified nominees must be stopped. Fortunately, Sen. James Lankford, R-Okla., has offered a solution: The Lankford Proposal would amend the body’s rules to shorten the length of post-cloture debate. The proposal would still grant 30 hours of debate post-cloture for Cabinet-level positions, Supreme Court justices, and Court of Appeals judges, but would cap post-cloture debate for all other nominees at eight hours, and district court nominees, who would be capped at just two hours. These same limitations were adopted as a temporary measure in 2013 by a majority of senators in both parties. The Senate should immediately adopt this proposal to stop those who seek to waste the American people’s valuable time and put qualified judges on the bench. Confirming the president’s extraordinary judicial nominees is a top priority for me and my organization, the Judicial Crisis Network, and we are committed to doing whatever necessary to end this Democratic obstruction. That’s why we’ve launched a campaign in support of Lankford’s gridlock reform. It’s time to tell the Senate Democrats who are obstructing Trump’s picks that they must stop playing games and start voting for qualified judicial nominees. Our courts — and our country — deserve better. Editor's Note: This column first appeared in The Washington Examiner. Carrie Severino is the chief counsel and policy director to the Judicial Crisis Network. She is also a former law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas and a graduate of Harvard Law School.
Yelp reviewers, beware. A Manhattan woman who gave one-star reviews on Yelp and ZocDoc to a Kips Bay gynecologist has spent nearly $20,000 defending herself against a defamation suit filed by the physician, according to her and court papers. And the litigation has only just started. “I gave an honest review of my experience to warn others, and he is trying to silence me. It’s a nightmare,’’ Michelle Levine told The Post. Levine said she found Dr. Joon Song of New York Robotic Gynecology & Women’s Health online and went to him for a checkup in July 2017. “A week later, he billed my insurance company $1,304.32 for the new-patient visit and ultrasound, and I got a bill for $427 that wasn’t covered,” she said. “The annual was supposed to be free!” Levine alleges in court filings that Joon never even gave her a manual pelvic exam, instead simply asking her about menstrual cramps and then performing an ultrasound. Levine claims that Joon said he gave her pelvic and breast exams, even though he didn’t. “When I called his office [to gripe], they were immediately aggressive and said I had come in complaining of pelvic pain,” which required the ultrasound, Levine said, denying she ever told them she had pelvic pain. “I was so disgusted, I wrote a review on several sites, including Yelp, ZocDoc and Health Grades,” she said. “Very poor and crooked business practice,” Levine wrote in the review. “I suspect that this doctor gives unnecessary procedure [sic] to a lot of people and then charges the insurance sky high prices and no one knows the difference. “Everything about my one and only visit here has caused me emotional distress and panic, and now they want me to cough up an extra $500 for services I didn’t even need?” Two weeks later, she got an email from the doctor’s lawyers, telling her she was being sued. The $1 million suit touts Joon’s Yale University training and accuses Levine of false postings and online harassment. “No reasonable person would believe that the statements made therein were opinion,’’ court papers say. Levine said the court battle has so far cost her close to $20,000. “They tried to drag my start-up wine-and-spirits technology business into it … They posted my entire medical record, including notes about my mental health, my bills, my insurance info, my driver’s license, birth date and home address,” she said. Lawyers for Joon and the clinic did not return messages. Additional reporting by Emily Saul
Stocks fell on Thursday after the Trump administration announced that it would apply tariffs on metals from the European Union, Mexico, and Canada–sparking threats of retaliation from each of those trading partners. But the decline was far more muted than the heated rhetoric about “trade wars” might have implied. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 252.94 points, or around 1 percent on the Tuesday following the forced destruction of the Italian populist government. The S&P 500 dropped just 0,.7 percent. The Nasdaq Composite was down by 0.3 percent. By contrast, news of political turmoil in Italy was followed by a decline of 391 points in the Dow, or 1.58%. Even at the lowest point on Thursday, the Dow was only down by about 300 points. The S&P dropped 1.16% and the Nasdaq was off by 0.50%. So a heightening of trade tensions between some of the world’s biggest trading counterparties was less impactful than worries about the Italian government’s stability.
"Full Frontal" comedian Samantha Bee apologized Thursday shortly after calling Ivanka Trump a “feckless c***” on her show Wednesday evening. "I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it," Bee said in a statement posted to Twitter. I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it. — Samantha Bee (@iamsambee) May 31, 2018 White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders called Bee’s remarks “vile and vicious” and also condemned the initial lack of response from both the media and the network. “The language used by Samantha Bee last night is vile and vicious. The collective silence by the left and its media allies is appalling,” Sanders said. “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast, and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network,” she added. Bee’s remarks were inspired by a picture Ivanka posted of herself with her young son which Bee believed to be ill-timed. "You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c***!” Bee said. “He listens to you. Put on something tight and low cut and tell your father to f***ing stop it. Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes.”
When New York lottery winner Lou Eisenberg met Curtis Sharp in 1982, he knew right away they’d be pals. Sharp, a maintenance man from Newark, had just hit the $5 million jackpot — exactly a year after Eisenberg famously scored the same amount, which at the time was the most in New York history. “Because I had won $5 million in 1981, I got invited to Curtis’ Lotto event,” Eisenberg recalled. “I liked him because he reminded me of me! He was dressed to the nines and came in singing a song. Curtis had his wife on one arm and his mistress on the other! I laughed myself silly.” What was supposed to be a quick meet-and-greet between the men evolved into a friendship that would last a lifetime — and, as it turns out, far longer than their winnings. Eisenberg, now 90, and Sharp, 80, both went from blue-collar working stiffs to millionaires and then back to everymen again, struggling to make ends meet. “In the end, I’ve got him, he’s got me — but neither of us have any more money,” Eisenberg told The Post. Sharp added, “We’ve got our stories, and we share those in telephone calls at least once a week. We talk all the time. We’ve been with each other through the rich good times — and now we’re together through the old and broke times.” Eisenberg was 53, living in Brooklyn and earning $225 a week as an office light-bulb changer when he bought his usual six numbers from a Midtown convenience store in November 1981. This time, he won big. After taxes, he received the first of his 20 payouts of about $200,000 a year and quit his job. “For 53 years, I’ve been eating bread. Now I want to eat cake,” he said at a press conference held by New York Lottery. Overnight, “Lucky Lou” became a celebrity and performed his happy-go-lucky shtick on the “The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson” and as a regular guest at local city events. A year later, lottery officials asked Eisenberg to attend the jackpot party for Sharp, then 44. “They asked me to help greet him,” Eisenberg recalled. “I was the first Jew that won $5 million in New York, he was the first black that won $5 million in New York. And we were both just working stiffs.” Sharp was living in Newark and earning $300 a week as a maintenance man when he asked a buddy to buy him a lottery ticket from a store near the Port Authority Bus Terminal. After his win, Sharp, like Eisenberg, began receiving a similar annual payout. “It was $239,005 a year for 20 years,” he recalled, which was more than Eisenberg’s because Sharp was living in Jersey and paying lower taxes than his buddy in New York. When lottery officials noticed how similar the two winners were, they were paired for a few local lottery commercials. After the publicity died down, the two continued to meet and talk about the wacky world of winning the lottery. Eisenberg talked about his fun trips to Paris and gambling in Las Vegas. He also confided about the strain of his divorce, about his young new wife — and the subsequent divorce from her, too. His alimony payments to two women began eating up more than half of his take-home winnings, he complained to Sharp. He had to hand his Brighton Beach condo over in one of the divorce settlements. When friends and neighbors asked Eisenberg for money, he happily handed it over, he added. “It was easy come, easy go. There was always a check coming soon,” Eisenberg said. Sharp knew exactly what his friend was going through. Several divorces and a series of fancy cars ate up Sharp’s money, never mind the dough he was dropping at casinos. Despite hanging on to his day job for another eight years in order to qualify for a pension, Sharp acknowledged that he was going on a lot of booze and drug benders. He was also giving a lot of the money away to friends and relatives. Sharp’s favorite thing was donating to charities, and he once cut a check for $15,000 to help victims of the Ethiopian famine. “It came in, it went out,” Sharp said. “But neither me nor Lou thought it would end.” Sharp and Eisenberg are far from the only lottery winners with rags-to-riches-and-back-to-rags stories. Evelyn Adams, who famously hit the New Jersey lottery not just once but twice, in 1985 and 1986, for a total of $5.4 million, is now barely scraping by at age 64. She blew through her money years ago, mainly by gambling and giving it away to those who asked. “Honey, I’m the type of person who would give people the shirt off my back — and that’s what happened,” she said in an interview in 2004. Adams didn’t return recent phone calls from The Post, but her daughter, Traci, said her mom is living in a trailer in New Jersey. “She’s good. She’s alive, she’s in good health,” Traci said. William “Bud” Post III — who won a $16.2 million Pennsylvania lottery jackpot in 1988 — wasn’t as lucky health-wise, or much any other way. Post, whose brother was once arrested for trying to have him murdered in order to inherit his money, died alone in 2006 at the age of 66 from physical ailments. He had been living off food stamps at the time. And Virginia native Jack Whittaker had big plans after he won a whopping $314.9 million in the Powerball multistate lottery in 2002. The construction boss opted for a lump-sum payout of $113 million to start his life of Riley. But within five years, Whittaker had squandered every cent on bad investments and was being sued by Caesar’s Atlantic City for bouncing checks. Eisenberg and Sharp never thought money would be a problem for them — because they didn’t expect to be walking the earth for so long. “I started getting payouts at 53. I thought, ‘Well, I’ll probably be dead by 73, and that’ll be that,’ ” Eisenberg said. “Why plan for after that?” Sharp agreed. “The way I was living, I’m surprised I didn’t die a long time ago. But, here I am,’’ he said. Neither of the friends set aside a dime for their old age, they said. Months after Eisenberg received his final payment in 2001, he was broke and living in a mobile home. He now lives in the town house of a deceased aunt on the condition he help take care of her disabled adult daughter. Eisenberg said he receives about $1,800 a month in Social Security and a small pension. “I have plenty of food and everything I want,” he said. “But when I go to the track, I can only take $30 or $40 with me.” Sharp’s pension and Social Security equals about $2,600 a month, he said. He eventually became a Baptist minister and moved to Antioch, Tenn., where he now ministers to the prison population. Sharp said he still gives away a lot of his monthly pension money and lives a very basic life. “If someone needs something, I help out,” the minister said. Neither Eisenberg nor Sharp regrets the highs and lows that came from hitting it rich. “It was great,” Eisenberg said. “Are you kidding?” For his 90th birthday in April, Eisenberg’s girlfriend paid to fly Sharp in from Antioch to their place in Florida for a party. “It might be Lou’s last birthday, and the only thing he wanted was to spend it with Curtis,” said the gal pal, Jane Anne Walker, 66. For his part, Sharp said he was happy to take his “old bones” and hop on a flight to West Palm Beach. And Sharp had the perfect gift for his best friend. “Lotto tickets, of course!’’ he said. Sharp said he bought the pair $15 worth of Powerball, Mega Millions and local state lottery tickets. “We didn’t win,’’ Sharp said. “But I played again the next week. I almost hit!’’
The following is an exclusive column given to Townhall in the words of Capt. George W. Starks, now aged 94, as told to Carole Avriett. The story of Capt. Starks and his nine crew members is told in full in Avriett’s newly-released title, Coffin Corner Boys: One Bomber, Ten Men, and Their Harrowing Escape from Nazi-Occupied France. On March 16, 1944, my B-17 crew and I took off from Podington, England, for our bombing mission into Germany. We were over northeastern France when we were hit, and I had to order my crew to bail out. Many times during training we had been cautioned to be very, very careful who we talked to and who we trusted if we were shot down. So on that first afternoon after I parachuted down, I hid in the brush next to a cultivated field—had no idea what might happen next. I knew Germans were probably all around. I figured they had seen us, knew where the plane had crashed, and would be scouring the countryside. One walked just a few feet from me; I held my breath, my heart pounding. But the German soldier moved on, and later a Frenchman came slowly walking along, whistling—sort of a signal-type whistle. I didn’t know what else to do except confront him and hope for the best. He pulled a small flask of wine from his jacket, some cigarettes, a piece of cheese, and black bread. It tasted so good. Later he took me into the village to the home of a woman who lived there with her young daughter. Through sign language and broken English, I learned that her husband was Polish and a POW. It suddenly hit me that if she were caught, she and her daughter would probably be shot instantly. That night several villagers brought me French-style workman-like clothing, an overcoat, and a knapsack. They had filled the sack with some food items. Then the lady, Josefa Wilczynska was her name, let me sleep on a small cot next to her kitchen. I slept in my clothes, and when I woke early the next morning, I was still clutching the knapsack they had given me. I really didn’t want to leave that house. For a few minutes I felt safe, but I knew I couldn’t stay—I was in danger of being found, and these people were in danger of being discovered helping an American airman. As I started my long walk toward Switzerland, it was the same each time I was given shelter in someone’s house: I didn’t want to leave. But I knew I had to keep going… On that first morning as I said good-by to this brave woman, I thought about what she and the others in the village had done for me. And I wondered what in the world had happened to each of my crew—I knew we had come down scattered over a broad area. I made two pledges to myself: if I survived this ordeal that lay ahead of me, I would never lose touch with my crew again; second, if possible, one day I would return to France to find these brave souls again and thank them for saving my life. After the war, I tried to make good on both those promises. I went back to France several times and located almost all of those who had helped me. I also located all my crew here in the States and went to see them when I could. One of those visits stands out vividly in my mind. It was in August 1983. I had located most of my crew and finally found Don Edgerly, who had been my engineer. My wife and I traveled to be with him at his home in Wapato, Washington. We spent two glorious days together, laughing, reminiscing, sharing tears. We talked about one young French couple with children who had taken him, Bill Wyatt, and Bob Williams, the ball turret gunner and radio operator respectively, into their home, allowed them to sit in front of their fireplace to get warm, and shared what food they had with them. We both knew what an incredibly dangerous thing that was for them to do. Yet this French family wasn’t the only one. We each could remember so many who had done similar things for us as we battled to get to freedom. It was a bittersweet visit because when I finally got home from my trip, I had a letter awaiting me from Don’s wife. Sadly, it wasn’t thanking me for coming to see her husband. Unbelievably, my dear friend had passed away on August 24, 1983, the day after I left his home in Wapato. I keep in touch even today with Don’s grandson, Bruce, whom I met on that trip in 1983. Because of the unselfish courage of all those French men, women, and children who helped us as well as many from the organized groups such as the French Resistance, the Underground, and the Maquis, all ten of us made it back to the States to marry and have families of our own. In fact, collectively we had 27 children, which led to 58 grandchildren, 22 great-grandchildren, 6 great-great-grandchildren…and counting. More than a hundred souls came to life because each man made it home. Now I am the only one left of my crew. And many of those who helped us in France have passed on also. Just like my crew, they have younger ones who remain. Memorial Day is a time for remembering all those who were important in your life during a time of war when hardship and trial, danger and strife, are daily fare. But war is also a time of bravery and sacrifice beyond words—and friendships forged in those fires are friendships that remain forever.
A populist coalition government is back on the cards in Italy, with the anti-establishment Five-Star Movement (M5S) and nationalist League (Lega) ready to submit a new Cabinet. President Sergio Mattarella, an EU loyalist chosen by the political class rather than elected directly by the people, used his largely ceremonial position as head of state to controversially block the two parties’ previous Cabinet from taking office, on grounds that he did not like the proposed economy minister, Paolo Savona — a eurosceptic who has argued for Italy to have a ‘Plan B’ for exiting the euro and readopting a national currency of its own. The populists vowed to stand by their candidate, with M5S calling for Mattarella’s impeachment and Lega calling for fresh elections — leaving the elderly president free to call on Carlo Cottarelli, a former International Monetary Fund (IMF), to form a technocratic, globalist-friendly ‘caretaker’ administration. That plan unravelled amid a public backlash when Cottarelli found himself unable to drum up any support for a ‘non-political’ government, and it looked as though Italians would have to head back to the ballot box again and deliver an increased populist mandate — until news today that M5S and Lega had apparently reached a deal to submit another Cabinet to Mattarell, minus the eurosceptic Savona. Sabotage: Italian President Blocks Eurosceptic Coalition Govt, Populist Leader Calls for Impeachment https://t.co/BwjAdHRsCt — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 28, 2018 “The Five-Star Movement and the League have reached an agreement on a political government headed by Giuseppe Conte as prime minister,” party leaders Luigi Di Maio and Matteo Salvini announced in a joint statement. “Maybe finally we have made it, after so many obstacles, attacks, threats and lies,” remarked Lega’s Salvini acidly, in a message posted to Facebook not long after the announcement. Savona has been replaced by another little-known economist, Giovanni Tria of Rome’s Tor Vergata University, who had been critical of EU economic policy but stopped short of advocating a ‘Plan B’ on the bloc’s single currency. President Mattarella could still reject the proposed government, but this seems unlikely — and polls indicate that fresh elections would result in a parliament with an even more eurosceptic composition than at present. Follow Jack Montgomery on Twitter: @JackBMontgomery
Google reportedly identified one of the ideologies of the California Republican Party as “Nazism” on its highly popular search platform. The piece of inaccurate information, which is hyperlinked to presumably take web browsers to more information about the hateful, fascist persuasion, is found in the “knowledge panel,” a sidebar widget that presents further, more immediate information. The feature has had problems before, specifically when an embedded fact-check feature tried to erroneously pin specious claims on articles written by The Daily Caller. Google eventually suspended the fact check project after The Daily Caller News Foundation investigated and pressed further. The most recent misattribution was first reported on by Vice News. Other ideologies listed besides Nazism, according to a screenshot obtained by Vice’s Alex Thompson, include “Conservatism, Market Liberalism, Fiscal conservatism, and Green conservatism.” TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Many people, especially those on the right, will suspect that it might have been done by a rogue Google employee or inadvertently through a flawed algorithm. Google, however, told TheDCNF that it’s because sometimes “people vandalize public information sources, like Wikipedia, which can impact the information that appears in search.” Wikipedia is for the most part open-source, meaning that almost anyone with only limited verification can add, amend and delete information. “We have systems in place that catch vandalism before it impacts search results, but occasionally errors get through, and that’s what happened here,” a Google spokeswoman said. Do you think big technology and social media companies are biased against Republicans? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Nevertheless, it comes at an inopportune time for the subject as California primaries are less than a week way. It’s not clear how long the tag was up, but absentee ballots have been cast for some time ahead of the elections. The listing caught the attention, particularly the ire, of many who are Republican or on that end of the political spectrum. U.S. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, for example, took notice and equated it to apparent bias. Sadly, this is just the latest incident in a disturbing trend to slander conservatives. These damaging actions must be held to account. #StopTheBias https://t.co/6ztyuc772s — Kevin McCarthy (@GOPLeader) May 31, 2018 The listing has since been removed, but how much damage it may have done is not clear. RELATED: California Senate Goes on Offensive, OKs Raising Gun-Buying Age, Monthly ‘Limit’ Google says it was only up for a short period of time. “This would have been fixed systematically once we processed the removal from Wikipedia,” the company representative concluded. “But when we noticed the vandalism we worked quickly to accelerate this process to remove the erroneous information.” A version of this article appeared on The Daily Caller News Foundation website. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. FOX's Michelle Pollino and Michael Tammero are back with their first 'Take Two' in awhile. Hear them discuss the reasons behind the Oscars bad ratings, which movies they enjoyed the most and what shows are they tuning into now. Listen to the 'Take Two' podcast below: Follow Michelle Pollino on Twitter: @Michellpollino
This past weekend, President Donald Trump and the most visible member of his legal team, former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, fired up their campaign against special counsel Robert Mueller. They attacked people at the Department of Justice whom Trump appointed. They smeared career DOJ lawyers and FBI agents by offering allegations without showing any supporting evidence. And they purported to challenge the legitimacy of Mueller's office itself. The legitimacy question is an opinion Giuliani offered six times to my colleague Bill Hemmer on "Fox News Sunday." Surely, Giuliani is entitled to any opinion on any matter, but he must know that his illegitimacy opinion is baseless. Mueller's work, though a constant irritant to Trump, is quite legitimate. It is authorized by the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, which were approved by Congress. It was created by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, a Trump appointee. It has been ratified by six different federal judges. The president himself has even accepted the legitimacy of some of Mueller's work. Trump unilaterally imposed financial sanctions on the Russian intelligence agents whom one of Mueller's grand juries indicted for computer hacking and other crimes allegedly committed during the 2016 election. The recent claim by Trump and Giuliani that the investigatory process is rigged against Trump betrays insincerity by Giuliani and an effort to gin up the base by Trump. From his years as a federal prosecutor, Giuliani knows the prosecutorial mindset. It is not one of patiently examining law and facts to ascertain guilt or innocence. That is the judicial mindset. Prosecutors target folks they believe are guilty and then look for enough lawfully acquired evidence to prove guilt. That is a legitimate use of government assets -- a use geared to charging defendants, not evaluating their moral worth for high office. One of the tools available to prosecutors -- and often used in white-collar cases -- is to dispatch a friendly person to chat with those at the periphery of an investigation to see whether any spoken words can lead prosecutors to credible evidence. This process of using an informant to gather evidence is so stunningly normal that it ought not even be of note. That's often how criminal investigations of nonviolent crimes begin -- with conversations between intermediaries who spill the beans. One of the most successful practitioners of this technique was a U.S. attorney in Manhattan named Rudy Giuliani. Today, as the spokesman for Trump's defense team, Giuliani is condemning this process he once perfected -- a process he knows to be lawful -- and he is doing this by calling the intermediary not an informant but a spy. Calling an informant a spy depends on where you sit. When he is your guy, he's an informant. When he is the other side's guy, he's a spy. The Giuliani claim -- unsupported by any public evidence -- is that the Obama administration sent an unnamed FBI undercover agent to inveigle the inner circle of the Trump campaign. If this is true and if it was done without a search warrant, it was a monumental violation of the civil rights of Trump campaign officials, including those of the man who would become the president. But Giuliani has shown no evidence for this. How did we get here? All of this spying and informing -- this mishmash of law enforcement and intelligence gathering -- is today the byproduct of the federal government's post-9/11 mentality. Before 9/11, the CIA gathered intelligence from outside the U.S., and the National Security Agency gathered intelligence from inside the U.S. The FBI constitutionally, for the most part, gathered evidence of crimes. Pre-9/11, the intelligence community and the law enforcement community were prohibited from communicating with each other, for well-grounded historical and practical reasons. Because the intelligence community uses unconstitutional and often unlawful means to acquire data and because law enforcement must use constitutional and lawful means to acquire evidence for a court not to suppress it, they did not exchange notes. But pursuant to the commands of the wildly unconstitutional Patriot Act (six federal judges have held portions of it unconstitutional), the intelligence community and law enforcement began blending their work. FBI agents soon realized that by portraying their work as intelligence gathering and not emphasizing the law enforcement aspects, they could go to a different court -- the FISA court, with its unconstitutionally low bar for obtaining a search warrant (namely, probable cause of speaking to a foreign person) -- to get search warrants. This proved far easier than obtaining a constitutional search warrant, which requires probable cause of a crime. An easier warrant means less work. That was a temptation too great to resist. The intelligence community soon realized it could share with law enforcement what it found by spying on Americans, in return for law enforcement's looking the other way at the lawlessness of domestic spying. All of this produced a cowboy culture of utter disregard for constitutional norms in much of federal law enforcement and domestic intelligence gathering. This is a form of corruption -- the knowing governmental violation of constitutional norms and the intentional toleration of it, set below the radar. Now back to Trump and Giuliani. If they are successful, they will have assaulted the rule of law by persuading the public to accept innuendo and known untruths. I am often on the side of the individual against the government, but if legitimate law enforcement has been or is undermined for political purposes, whether by President Barack Obama in 2016 or by President Trump in 2018, all of us will suffer from more corruption. Giuliani's job is not to be Trump's lawyer; rather, it is to effect public sentiment. For the government, as Abraham Lincoln once said, with public sentiment, nothing can fail; without it, nothing can succeed. Trump and Giuliani understand that better than they understand the rule of law.
The concept of wetting yourself in public is a terrifying prospect, but it happens to Emma Carey every single day. As a walking paraplegic, incontinence is something that the Gold Coast, Australia, resident has to live with. The 25-year-old survived a skydiving accident in Europe five years ago — the parachute became tangled around her tandem skydive instructor’s neck, causing him to lose consciousness. And while the survival was miraculous, she said she felt the impact on her life on a daily basis. She will “never go a day without having an accident” and wetting her pants. The young Aussie backpacker landed on her stomach and effectively broke the instructor’s fall when she did a tandem skydive in Switzerland while on a three-month European backpacking holiday. She broke her back, sacrum, pelvis, jaw and shattered her teeth. She got a spinal cord injury at L1 and doctors told her she was paralyzed from the waist down and would never walk again. Incredibly, Carey is now able to walk, though she tires easily. A post shared by EMMA CAREY (@em_carey) on Feb 15, 2017 at 4:06am PST She took part in the Wings for Life World Run, an event for people with spinal injuries, earlier this month. She managed to walk 5 km in the event, which she was “super happy” with, but she had to be carried part of the way by friends and was barely able to walk the week after. In the lead-up she appeared on “The Project,” an Australian talk show, and made headlines the following day after viewers called out the slightly tone-deaf wording from panelists who asked Carey if she was “grateful” for the accident that nearly killed her. Media had a field day with the “gaffe,” but Carey said it barely registered with her. “I didn’t think it was a big deal — I think it’s funny that everyone freaked out about it,” she said with a laugh. That sunny, optimistic disposition seems to filter through to the daily difficulties Carey faces following her near-death experience. A post shared by EMMA CAREY (@em_carey) on May 7, 2018 at 5:36am PDT Through multiple surgeries, infections, grueling physio sessions and hospitalizations, the young Queensland native tends to look on the bright side. Even when it comes to wetting herself in public. “As a paraplegic I have to use a catheter as I am incontinent,” she said. (For the uninitiated, a catheter is a thin straw that is inserted into the urethra and tracks up into the bladder). “I will never go a day without having an accident — if I go out, it’s guaranteed it will happen.” Originally, she was mortified by the issue. “For the first few months after I came out of hospital I was nervous to go out in public because of it, so I just wouldn’t go out. “But then one day I just thought ‘this sucks — I’ve just survived something that I should not have survived, I should be out enjoying every single part of the world and element of life, I shouldn’t be locked inside, I should be out living.’ A post shared by EMMA CAREY (@em_carey) on Jan 7, 2018 at 3:31am PST “I realized that if I let myself be embarrassed every time I have an accident, I am going to be sad and upset every day of my life, so I just have to change the way I look at it.” She said the key to this was talking about it openly with all her friends. “Every time I make a new friend I somehow bring it into conversation. That way if it happens when we are hanging out together they aren’t freaked out and we can just laugh it off.” She also doesn’t hide it from strangers, sharing wet-pants pictures with her 118,000 Instagram followers. She does this to “help break the stigma and help other people talk about it.” Carey has received numerous messages from people thanking her for her raw honesty. A post shared by EMMA CAREY (@em_carey) on Aug 1, 2017 at 4:04am PDT “Someone came up to me in person a few weeks ago, a young girl who is completely deaf in one ear and deaf in her second ear unless she wears a hearing aid. “She said she had been too embarrassed to wear her hearing aid and that she would rather be deaf. But she said that after reading and seeing me talk about wearing catheters she felt less embarrassed and spoke to her friends about it. “That just made me feel so happy … why should we be ashamed of medical things that allow us to lead a normal life?” It’s not only urine that Carey has to deal with. She spends 30 minutes every morning emptying her bowels through an enema (though she points out for her it’s not too bad — some wheelchair-bound people need to spend up to two hours each morning undergoing this procedure). She has to take a change of clothes with her wherever she goes in case she has an accident and gets feces everywhere. “More than anything it’s annoying … when that happens you do have to go home and have a shower and get changed — that is more annoying and time-consuming than anything.” A post shared by EMMA CAREY (@em_carey) on Jun 29, 2017 at 4:43am PDT The other irritating aspect is the sheer amount of “stuff” she has to cart around. “I have to have a catheter inserted every hour so I have to carry them around as well as wipes, plastic gloves, the thick pads I have to wear in my underwear and a change of clothes.” Unfortunately, the inconvenience of incontinence also comes with health risks. Carey has been hospitalized multiple times with infections from the catheter. “I can’t feel the burning sensation in my bladder, but I know I have an infection because I get a fever and vomit,” she explains. Carey is refreshingly open about the recovery process. Her Instagram account reflects her active outdoor lifestyle and doesn’t dwell on the medical procedures and intensive rehabilitation. As a result, people are often confused by the extent of her injuries. “People often say to me ‘oh so you’re better now, how long did it take you to get fully better?’ They just don’t understand that I’ll never be fully better…I think the term ‘walking paraplegic’ really confuses people. They don’t understand that my legs have come back, but I still deal with all the other problems that come with paraplegia. They see that I look completely fine and they find it all a bit hard to believe.” A post shared by EMMA CAREY (@em_carey) on Sep 6, 2017 at 5:22am PDT She said what she does find “really odd” is when people accuse her of lying about her injury. “Some people on social media have questioned why I am still talking about it even though I am ‘completely better,’” she said. “That annoys me, especially if I have just pooed my pants and I’m trying to find a shower. I just think ‘you have no idea what I am doing right now.’ I find it upsetting that someone could think I would lie about that. “They accuse me of telling my story and talking about the reality of incontinence for fame or attention. “But the point of this isn’t for sympathy or for praise…it’s to show you that it is completely and entirely possible to not give a single s–t about the things that people expect you to care about.”
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. The VA still without a permanent Secretary. FOX's John Toldi speaks with Veteran and co-founder of Nine Line Apparel Tyler Merritt about the state of the VA and his clothing line.
Tronc on Tuesday said it was buying The Virginian-Pilot and related we sites and real estate from Landmark Media Enterprises for $34 million. The deal includes several niche publications, plus a 465,000-square-foot headquarters in Norfolk and a Virginia Beach distribution facility. Meanwhile, there was a new round of cuts at the Daily News over the past two weeks, and its gossip column appears to have vanished from print in recent days. Also, two staffers from the sports desk tweeted their goodbyes on May 18. Tom Biersdorfer wrote, “Friday was my last day at the New York Daily News after almost 8 years … I’ll miss creating the back page, after making more than 1,000 of them. Tough choice, but time for something new. -30-” Ian Powers also bid adieu that same day. “Today is bittersweet for me as I finished my last shift at the New York Daily News … Stay tuned for my next exciting venture.” Insiders said their departures were part of the Tronc reorganization that got rolling in March. Interactive developer Kelli R. Parker also resigned recently after about a year on the job, since most of the jobs in that department were headed west as part of a consolidation of design and production for all the papers in Chicago. An update: Patrick Soon-Shiong’s deal to acquire the Los Angeles Times and the San Diego Union-Tribune from Tronc for $500 million, announced in February, still has not closed. And McCormick Media, which was given a 10-day extension to complete its purchase of just over 25 percent of the stock now owned by ex-chairman Michael Ferro for $23 a share, also has not finalized its deal. Tronc stock closed up 6 cents, at $16.39, on Tuesday.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. "F.B.I. Used Informant to Investigate Russia Ties to Campaign, Not to Spy, as Trump Claims," read the headline on a lengthy New York Times story May 18. "The Justice Department used a suspected informant to probe whether Trump campaign aides were making improper contacts with Russia in 2016," read a story in the May 21 edition of The Wall Street Journal. So much for those who dismissed charges of Obama administration infiltration of Donald Trump's campaign as paranoid fantasy. Defenders of the Obama intelligence and law enforcement apparat have had to fall back on the argument that this infiltration was for Trump's -- and the nation's -- own good. It's an argument that evidently didn't occur to Richard Nixon's defenders when it became clear that Nixon operatives had burglarized and wiretapped the Democratic National Committee's headquarters in June 1972. Until 2016, just about everyone agreed that it was a bad thing for government intelligence or law enforcement agencies to spy -- er, use informants -- on a political campaign, especially one of the opposition party. Liberals were especially suspicious of the FBI and the CIA. Nowadays they say that anyone questioning their good faith is unpatriotic. The crime at the root of Watergate was an attempt at surveillance of the DNC after George McGovern seemed about to win the Democratic Party's presidential nomination, just as the government misconduct in Russiagate was an attempt at surveillance of the Republican Party's national campaign after Trump clinched its nomination. In both cases, the incumbent administration regarded the opposition's unorthodox nominee as undermining the nation's long-standing foreign policy and therefore dangerous to the country. McGovern renounced the Democrats' traditional Cold War policy. Trump expressed skepticism about George W. Bush and Obama administration policies on NATO, Mexico, Iran and (forgetting Barack Obama's ridicule of Mitt Romney on the subject) Russia. The incumbents' qualms had some rational basis. But their attempts at surveillance were misbegotten. Back in 1972, my brief experience in campaigns left me skeptical that you could learn anything useful by wiretapping the opposition. If you were reasonably smart, you should be able to figure out what a reasonably smart opposition would do and respond accordingly. Subsequent experience has confirmed that view. It's a different story if you face irrational opposition. It's hard to figure out what stupid people are going to do. Similarly, it's hard to figure out what the Obama law enforcement and intelligence folks had to gain by spying. Candidate Trump's bizarre refusals to criticize Vladimir Putin and Russia were already a political liability, criticized aptly and often by Hillary Clinton and mainstream media. But neither the Obama informant/spy nor Robert Mueller's investigation has presented additional evidence of Trump collusion with Russia. None of Mueller's indictments points in that direction, and Trump's foreign policy over 16 months has been far less favorable to Russia than Obama's. Both the Watergate wiretap and the Obama appointees' investigator/spy infiltration were initially inspired amid fears that the upstart opposition might win. The Watergate burglary was planned when Nixon's re-election was far from assured. A May 1972 Harris Poll showed him with only 48 percent against McGovern. It was only after the Haiphong harbor bombing and Moscow summit in early June made clear that U.S. involvement in Vietnam was ending that Nixon's numbers surged -- just before the June 17 burglary. In March 2016, it was conventional wisdom that Trump couldn't be elected president. But his surprising and persistent strength in the Republican primaries left some doubtful, including the FBI lovebirds who instant messaged their desire for an "insurance policy" against that dreaded eventuality. Their unease may have owed something to their knowledge of how the Obama Justice Department and FBI had fixed the Hillary Clinton emails case. Clinton wasn't indicted but was left with a disastrously low 32 percent of voters confident of her honesty and trustworthiness. There are two obvious differences between Watergate and the Obama administration's infiltration. The Watergate burglars were arrested in flagrante delicto, and their wiretaps never functioned. And neither the FBI nor the CIA fully cooperated with the postelection cover-up. That's quite a contrast with the Obama law enforcement and intelligence appointees' promotion of Christopher Steele's Clinton campaign-financed dodgy dossier and feeding the mainstream media's insatiable hunger for Russia collusion stories. Has an outgoing administration ever worked to delegitimize and dislodge its successor like this? We hear many complaints, some justified, about Donald Trump's departure from standard political norms. But the greater and more dangerous departure from norms may be that of the Obama officials seeking to overturn the results of the 2016 election.
Refugees and migrants are rescued by members of the Spanish NGO Proactiva Open Arms after they left Libya trying to reach European soil aboard an overcrowded rubber boat, north of the Libyan coast. In total, 105 refugees and migrants from various countries, including Bangladesh, Egypt, Nigeria, Morocco, Ghana, Pakistan, Sudan, Libya, Eritrea and Senegal, were rescued. AP
New Yorkers have always looked beyond the five boroughs for a reprieve from city life, flocking to places like the Hudson Valley for bucolic escapes. But as the popularity — and cost — of typical weekend getaway areas surge, some city dwellers have reassessed what they want from a vacation home. In the popular riverside town of Beacon, NY, the median single-family home price increased by 57 percent over the last five years, according to data gathered by Zillow. It’s a similar story in the upstate towns of Cold Spring and Hudson, where the same metric has jumped by roughly 25 percent. But just a two-hour drive north of Hudson (itself a two-hour drive from Manhattan), in the lush southeast corner of Vermont, some New Yorkers have discovered you can get more house for less — and be even closer to nature without the trendy trappings of those upstate weekend retreats. In Windham County, home to the year-round resorts of Stratton and Mount Snow, the median single-family home price has increased just 5 percent over the last five years to a modest $180,000. Compared to the ritzier Hudson Valley, Windham County is less fussy — with fewer high-end boutiques and restaurants in its towns of Wardsboro and Jamaica — and presents a lower barrier to entry. That’s why Jenny McClary and Allie Leepson, both 30 and partners who run content strategy team The 1909, decided to bypass Hudson when looking for a weekend home. Even though they love the artsy, shop-filled town where they tied the knot in 2015, they found it was a microcosm of their weekday lives. “It’s like the West Village up there,” says Leepson, adding that she’s observed some folks get dressed to the nines for mundane errands in Hudson. So in October 2017, the couple spent $170,000 on a three-bedroom Adirondack-style cabin in Wardsboro, Vt. McClary says they were drawn to the area because, unlike Hudson, it “doesn’t feel like it’s trying too hard.” They hope to visit the cabin, a four-hour drive from their Park Slope apartment, one or two times a month. But since they first listed it on Airbnb in February from $200 per night, the property has been consistently booked on weekends. After their closing, McClary and Leepson installed new lights and a vintage freestanding fireplace, which lend the space a comfortable midcentury modern-meets-ski chalet vibe that’s proven appealing to vacationers. “We forgot to pencil ourselves in,” McClary says. “Our renters have stayed longer than we have.” Their property sits in the state’s Green Mountain National Forest, and fulfills their dream of being secluded in scenic surrounds without settling for a “scary cabin in the woods,” McClary says. Their location puts them a 15-minute drive from Mount Snow, with hiking trails minutes away from their front door. Windham County’s proximity to the forest, and the ski areas within it, has proven a draw for tristate-area weekenders looking to leave the commotion of their everyday lives behind. Coupled with a location that is a straight shot north from New York on I-91, it’s emerging as a favorite Hudson Valley alternative. Second-home buyers are looking for a different kind of property than in years past, according to Ellen Mallia of Four Seasons Sotheby’s International Realty’s Stratton office. “We had a lot of people coming from the Connecticut area looking for ‘statement’ homes” like newer-build mansions, Mallia says. “What we’re seeing right now with our younger buyers is they’re looking for experiences,” like trekking and winter sports, “rather than grand possessions.” A similar desire for a humble getaway from the city drove Lauren Hudson and Chris Krieger to purchase their home in the small town of Jamaica. The couple from Trumbull, Conn., paid $235,000 for a contemporary three-bedroom in August 2017. “We were looking for something truly four seasons,” says Krieger, 35, a lending director who likes to snowboard and hike. Jamaica fit the bill, putting them about 30 minutes from both Stratton and Mount Snow. The couple turned to Vermont rather than the Hudson Valley because they were “looking to get a little further removed from the tristate area,” says Hudson, 36. They don’t even mind the spotty cell service and slow Wi-Fi. “We can detach there,” Hudson, a creative director, says. “At first we were nervous about it, but now we’re really thankful for it.” Like McClary and Leepson, Hudson and Krieger have listed their home on Airbnb from $350 a night. The couple plans to make the three-hour drive from Connecticut to Jamaica more often this summer, now that the house’s booking requests from winter sports enthusiasts have let up. They are also looking forward to connecting with neighbors. “The sense of community — you just don’t get that in Connecticut,” says Hudson, adding that after just nine months of homeownership in the area, “everyone knows our names.” There’s perhaps no better evidence of Windham County’s friendliness than North Country General, a Jamaica restaurant and bar serving up locally sourced food and drink alongside Vermont-made wares. Alexandra Fraser, 34, opened the hospitality venture in 2017 with her 30-year-old husband, Dean, after leaving the West Village to make a permanent home in Vermont, where Fraser spent much of her childhood. In the year it’s been open, North Country General has become a gathering place where locals and weekenders mingle. It doesn’t hurt that, by Fraser’s estimate, it’s the first new bar in town in 30 years. Fraser’s decision to move back to Vermont was influenced by her pregnancy. “Vermont has a lot of therapeutic ways of helping people connect with the earth and disconnect from a lot of the things in life that keep us out of focus,” Fraser says, noting that she often felt isolated in New York. That’s not so in Jamaica. “There’s a sense of community here that’s still genuine and authentic.” The morning after Roosevelt Islanders Elizabeth Erickson, 37, and Jeffrey Escobar, 41, closed on their Jamaica vacation house, a new neighbor introduced herself in North Country General. “There’s a thousand real stories like that here,” Erickson says.Erickson and Escobar weren’t initially drawn to Jamaica because of the close-knit vibe, but it’s become a real benefit to owning in the town. The two attorneys started thinking about buying in Vermont after visiting a good friend who left Brooklyn for the Green Mountain State. Erickson says she was shocked to see how much $200,000 could get them in Vermont compared with other second-home spots. After just two appointments in 2015 with Mallia, their broker, they dropped $167,500 on an updated Cape Cod-style house dating to 1839. Its closeness to the mountains was important to the couple, who bonded over their shared love for skiing, as was the property’s gated yard, where they could let their young daughter, Madeline, explore. This past winter, the family made the trek to Vermont every weekend, making the best of their season passes at Stratton. Over the summer, they’ll visit just one or two times a month, often hosting friends who, like them, revel in the area’s tranquility while drinking coffee or sipping wine on the front porch. For Erickson, the best part of owning in Vermont is the freedom that being outside of the city gives Madeline. “She’s only seven, so in New York, we keep her really close to us,” Erickson says. “She’s such a city kid, but the first thing she does when we get up there is take her shoes off.” Now that’s something you can’t — or at least shouldn’t — do outside a New York apartment.
Usain Bolt’s string of “triple gold” perfection in the Olympics has come to an end — and it’s not his fault. “The Fastest Man Alive” was flawless in the Summer Games, winning gold medals in the 100-meters, the 200-meters and the 4×100-meter relay at three consecutive Olympics (2008, 2012 and 2016). But one of his Jamaican teammates — sprinter Nesta Carter — was retroactively disqualified from the 2008 relay in Beijing because of a positive doping test that wasn’t discovered until eight years later. The International Olympic Committee re-examined the Bejing samples in 2016, and Carter tested positive for the stimulant methylhexaneamine. Jamaica was stripped of its relay title. TRENDING: Browns player promises big gift to fans if Cavs win NBA Finals Why is everyone stripped of their medals because of the stupidity of one teammate #UsainBolt — Johnny Dee (@DeeJohnny720) May 31, 2018 Carter took his case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Switzerland, but the judging panel dismissed his appeal Thursday. Do you think it's fair for Usain Bolt to lose his gold medal over this? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Wildcard updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. The panel said it “could not accept any of the arguments raised by Nesta Carter contending that the test results should be ignored or the IOC (disciplinary) decision should otherwise be overturned for certain alleged failures.” Jamaica had a world-record time of 37.10 seconds in Beijing as Carter ran the opening leg and Bolt took the baton third. Their teammates were Michael Frater and Asafa Powell. The 2008 gold medal will now go to Trinidad and Tobago, with Japan being upgraded to silver and Brazil to bronze. The IOC reanalysis program, which uses new and more accurate tests on samples stored since the 2008 and 2012 Games, has resulted in dozens of positive tests for banned substances and numerous athlete disqualifications. This is the only one involving Jamaica. Bolt discussed Carter’s case with the BBC in 2017, saying, “I am not happy about it.” RELATED: Twinkle toes: ‘Dancing with the Stars’ opts for all-athlete cast in new season However, he said, “I have no power over this anymore. You can’t get too angry about something that you can’t really change.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
WASHINGTON -- Imagine the horror of learning you have a terminal illness for which science has not yet come up with a treatment. Now imagine receiving the same diagnosis, and then learning a promising new treatment exists that could save your life -- but you can't get access to it thanks to governmental obstacles. That is the nightmare that befell Andrea Sloan, an Austin lobbyist who gave up her job at a high-priced law firm to advocate for victims of domestic violence. In 2007, Sloan was diagnosed with ovarian cancer, and for more than six years tried every Food and Drug Administration-approved treatment for her disease. All failed. With Sloan's health rapidly deteriorating, her doctor at MD Anderson Cancer Center told her she had one last hope: a new drug that inhibits DNA repair in cancer cells, which had shown great promise in clinical trials with patients that had her specific genetic mutation. But Sloan did not qualify for a clinical trial. And while the drug had passed safety trials, it was not yet approved by the FDA. She would have to seek "compassionate use." After months of lobbying (and being turned down by one manufacturer), she finally convinced another to grant her access. She was ready to begin treatment, but then she hit a deadly roadblock: Before she could obtain the drug her physician recommended and that a manufacturer was willing to provide, she had to beg the FDA for approval. Her doctor was forced to spend around 100 hours filling out FDA paperwork (a requirement that has since been streamlined, thanks to public pressure). Then, the FDA took 24 days to review the application. As Sloan waited, her health deteriorated further. In an interview for the book "The Right to Try: How the Federal Government Prevents Americans from Getting the Lifesaving Treatments They Need," which I co-wrote, Sloan's best friend Michelle Wittenberg told me about Sloan's anguish as she waited on the green light from Washington. "She would say, 'Michelle, what's going on? What's the delay? The drug company's agreed to give it, why is it taking so long?'" When the FDA finally relented, the drug worked. Scans showed it beating back her cancer. But it was too late. Shortly after getting the scans, Sloan came down with pneumonia. Thirteen days later, she died. "The delay in getting that drug that was working killed her," Wittenberg said, "The extra month tacked on because of the FDA process? Too long." Wittenberg formed "Andi's Army" to lobby the Texas state Legislature to pass a "Right to Try" law that would grant those in Texas with terminal illnesses (and who have exhausted all FDA-approved treatments) access to investigational drugs -- so long as they have been proven safe in clinical trials, are part of the FDA's ongoing evaluation process, and the company developing the medication is willing to make it available. In 2015, Gov. Greg Abbott signed the "Andrea Sloan Right to Try Act" into law. Today, 40 states have passed similar laws. And on Wednesday, President Trump will sign a national Right to Try Act into law. In the states, Right to Try has not been a partisan issue. In most instances, it passed without a single dissenting vote. The issue brought together politicians who never worked together on any other issue. In Illinois, for example, the bill was co-sponsored by state Sen. Mike Connelly, a socially conservative Republican, and state Rep. Greg Harris, a liberal Democrat who is HIV-positive. As Connelly told me, "This is the first bill I've ever encountered that is both pro-life and pro-choice. It gives people the freedom to choose to fight for their life." But, sadly, this spirit of bipartisanship did not translate to Washington. Only 22 House Democrats voted for the final bill that Trump will sign. In August, a version introduced by Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., passed the Senate by unanimous consent, but stalled in the House, which eventually passed a more limited bill from Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore. Last week, Senate Republicans tried to accommodate Democratic objections by bringing up the Walden bill for a vote, but Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer blocked it from coming to the floor. So the House passed the Johnson version, with Democrats nearly united in opposition. In other words, Democrats in Washington managed to take an issue that unified thousands of legislators from both parties in 40 states, and turned it into a divisive, party-line vote. Thanks to Trump, Americans facing terminal diagnoses will now have a new chance at life. How tragic -- and pathetic -- that Democrats refused to join him in making that happen.
As school choice application deadlines approach in New Jersey, many schools find they have more applicants than available seats due to state charter caps.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. I don’t argue with liberals for several reasons, including the fact that as a trial lawyer I argue for a living so I expect to be paid for it, and the fact that I really don’t care what liberals think enough to try to change their minds. When I deal with them on Twitter and other social media, I just want to defeat them as I demonstrate to fellow conservatives that it’s okay to fight back. But some of you do argue with liberals, though I don’t get why. See, liberals don’t argue either, mostly because they know no one else will buy the ideological garbage they are peddling. Instead of a reasoned position, they will inevitably offer a cheesy simulacrum of an argument that consists of the kind of hack ploys that would embarrass a shyster in a polyester leisure suit doing shaky rear-ender cases out of his 1992 Corolla parked down by the dump because he can’t afford a van down by the river. Liberals don’t argue in good faith because they can’t, and Normal people who don’t argue every day as part of their job often don’t see the argument grifts they are being side-swiped by. Normals are direct and honest folks, and often (though much less frequently than they used to since Normals began to get militant) they labor under the illusion that debates with liberals involve honest exchanges of facts and evidence that can lead people to change their minds. No. Liberal “argument’ is a bludgeon designed to beat you into submission with distraction and deception. Let’s look as some of liberals’ favorite cheats, and how you can defeat them. The Cheat : “Jesusplain Those Rubes!” When in doubt, play the messiah card! It’s always a pleasure to have some atheist hipster explain to you how Christ was a socialist SJW who was ultra-open-minded about what bathroom people should use and who demands you give the government money so it can hand your cash over to deadbeats. I often wonder if this gambit ever works, if anyone ever thinks, “Gosh, I guess if @ImpeachTrumpHillarysHot says my Savior hates AR15s, then I better disarm myself in the face of liberal-enabled crime and liberal-supported tyranny.” How to Beat It : You could explain the whole Christianity thing, but it’s easier to just tell the liberals to go pound sand. The Cheat : “You are [Something Terrible] for thinking that!” Racist, sexist, homophobic, Nickelback-loving – there’s not a slur or slander you won’t be called for standing up for the principles that made America great. But somewhere along the line, certain conservatives – let’s just say they tend to try to sell you cruises where you can mingle with the who’s who of the Fredocon elite – started trying to please liberals, seeking to prove that, “No, I’m not that horrible thing you just called me!” Big mistake. Of course, that never works. Liberals themselves are all of the things they call you, and they know it, and they don’t care, because their caring and concern and compassion for all the groups they accuse you of oppressing is just a pose. Watch how quickly they go from claiming you hate gay people to accusing you of being gay because calling a conservative gay is an insult that is supposed to blow our button-down bourgeois minds. How to Beat It : You could deny the charges, but it’s easier to just tell the liberals to go pound sand. The Cheat : “We are better than that!” They like to try to weaponize our morality against us, which is hilarious since they hate morality almost as much as they hate us. They create some sort of moral test, usually out of thin air, and then announce you have failed it. One of the best was the recent “Splitting up families of undocumented workers is not who we are!” Except it is who we are. We split up the families of criminals all the time and we should – there’s no nursery in San Quentin for a reason. What they want to do is well up those tears in your eyes so you don’t clearly see the truth – the problem is not the consequence of illegal aliens breaking into our country. The problem is the illegal aliens breaking into our country. The problem is always the misbehavior we are calling out, not the fact we are calling it out. How to Beat It : Refuse to play this human shield game and tell the liberals to go pound sand. The Cheat : “No other developed country [Does This]!” The “Compare America to wonderful foreigners” ploy often comes up in their gun screeds, where they claim that no other “developed” country has as many murders as America and then put the blame on the 100 million gun owners who didn’t kill anyone. It’s true that no other “developed” country has Democrat-run blue cities full of Democrat constituents who shoot each other down in the streets. Nor do they have a citizenry that retains the right to oust a tyrannical government, but where we see that as a feature, liberals – who think Castro was a great guy – see this as a terrible bug. And what’s this about being “developed” anyway? Mexico and Brazil, which have gun control laws that the Democrat Disarm the Normals Caucus only dreams of, also have murder rates exponentially higher than ours. Why don’t liberals compare ours with theirs? Do they think non-whites are somehow undeveloped? Do they have lower expectations for non-white people? This is, frankly, super-racist. Stop being racist, liberals. How to Beat It : You could explain that this is America and not some dwindling nation made up of emasculated Euroweenies with a flatlining birthrate, but it’s easier to just tell the liberals to go pound sand. The Cheat : “Well, [Insert Huge Shameless Lie Here]!” Facts are, apparently, for suckers. When in doubt, liberals lie, and then they lie again. Like on guns. Prominent liberals announce they want to repeal the Second Amendment and then huffy libs leap up to assert that, “No one wants to take your guns.” Gaslight better, people! At least try. How many times have you heard how AR15s are “weapons of war” when no one ever uses them in wars? How many blue falcon Democrat vets have tried selling us on disarming by saying, “I carried a M16/M4 for a year and, for some reason, now I think I have the moral authority to tell you other Americans what self-defense tools you can and can’t have!” Okay, an AR15 is not a M16/M4. It just isn’t. Saying so means you are a liar, or too stupid to be talking about guns. And wait a minute – I was in 27 years. Shouldn’t I have even more moral authority to tell people that every citizen should have an AR15, or does this special “But I was in the Army!” moral authority only accrue to liberals? Getting basic facts about guns wrong again and again is not a mistake – it’s a lie designed to mislead you. The same with TRUMP RUSSIA TREASON RUSSIA EMOLUMENTS RUSSIA TREASON STORMY TREASON. After almost two years of this hooey, they are still lying about evidence of collusion between Trump and Putin. There’s none about Trump but plenty showing the Obama/Clinton Cartel colluded with foreigners big time. But that’s apparently A-OK collusion. Facts, schmacts, it’s all about the narrative! What does it say about an ideology that its proponents have to lie about what they really want? It says that they know that if you know what they really want, you won’t have any of it.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Todd Starnes spoke with Senate candidate, Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) just hours before President Trump was expected to put his support behind her at a campaign rally in Nashville. Rep. Blackburn told Starnes why people should vote for her to replace the retiring Republican Senator Bob Corker. "Tennesseans know that they can depend on me to defend life at all stages. They know that they can depend on me to defend the Second Amendment and all of our rights and freedoms. They know that I say there are the big five we have to protect every single day: faith, family, freedom, hope and opportunity. And I am going to work on that," Rep. Blackburn said. Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America! Listen to the whole interview here: Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."
For years, all home buyers have heard is that prices are going up, up, and away. But the cost of buying a newly constructed abode has fallen to its lowest price point of the last 12 months. So if you've been wanting to buy a home that's never been touched by another owner, we give you permission do a happy dance. The median price of a new home dropped nearly 6.9% from March to April to reach $312,400, according to a joint report by the U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. That was only up 0.4% from April 2017, less than inflation. "This could be a sign that builders are trying to build at lower price points," says realtor.com® Chief Economist Danielle Hale. That would be a boon to the many would-be homeowners, particularly first-time buyers or those on a tight budget, who are being priced out of the market. "The largest share of home buyers and home shoppers in the market are looking to buy entry-level homes." Hale pointed out that 5% of new-home sales were for abodes priced under $150,000. That may not sound like much, but it's the largest share we've seen at that super-desirable price point since August 2016. However, new homes were still about 24.8% more expensive than the $250,400 median cost of an existing home (one that has previously been lived in), according to the most recent data available from the National Association of Realtors®. That's because new homes have pricier finishes and appliances, with no wear and tear on anything. Plus, land, labor, and building materials costs have been on the rise. Meanwhile, the number of new homes sold and for sale dipped 1.5% from the previous month to about 662,000, according to the report. They rose, however, 11.6% from the same month a year earlier. (Realtor.com® looked only at the seasonally adjusted numbers in the report. These have been smoothed out over 12 months to compensante for ups and downs at certain times of year.) The Midwest saw the biggest annual bump in the number of homes sold or for sale in April. About 91,000 home hit the market or were closed on in April, rising a whopping 26.4% from the same month a year earlier, but remaining flat from the previous month. The West came in second, with a 18.9% year-over-year rise. But the 176,000 abodes for sale or sold were down 7.9% from March. In the South, the 355,000 homes on the market or changing hands were up 6% annually and increased 0.3% from the previous month. In the Northeast, the number was up 5.3% year-over-year and 11.1% month-over-month, with 40,000 new homes. "The absolute level of [new-home] sales remains quite low compared to current demand levels and the overall population. But you can’t sell what hasn’t been built," Freddie Mac Deputy Chief Economist Len Kiefer said in a statement. "As long as single-family home construction remains at a low level, so too will new home sales."
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Sometime over the last few decades, “animal protection” became synonymous with, er, let’s say “enthusiastic” people doing things like throwing red paint on fur coats, demanding wholesale ban of meat (and pets!), and of course bashing a sitting president for swatting a fly during a TV interview. While the vast field of animal protection certainly has its oft misguided, dogmatic flank—as does any movement—the truth is that there are just as many animal lovers wearing MAGA hats as there are wearing p***y ones. Nothing—nothing--rocks the political and media world like a good shot of strange bedfellow political and social activism. And today, on the most worthy animal welfare front, we are seeing the dawn of perhaps one of the most formidable alliances ever. You probably wouldn’t know it, but for years center-right folks have lead the way on historic efforts to prevent and punish animal cruelty, from storied animal lover Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS) passing and strengthening the federal Animal Welfare Act to Sen. Bob Smith (R-NH) retiring chimpanzees from labs. Even Rick Santorum – whom even most center-right folks can barely stand – was pretty heroic and committed to the cause during his time in the US Senate. Today is no different. The demand for progress from folks you might otherwise not associate with animal welfare is just broader and the demanders louder. It’s beautiful thing. And it’s having the most welcome added benefit of focusing and trimming fat, so to speak, from what had become for a time a rather ineffective and meandering movement completely owned and dominated by the left. Indeed it’s not all sweetness and light amongst these strange bedfellows. Not all of the old guard are keen for their relatively newfound determined, feisty and lean company. But they’ll learn. If they would like to survive, they’ll learn. And oh, what change will come. Quickly! While some bloated and impotent establishment groups fundraise off of their same-old “Republican attack on animals” and blindly fill the coffers of Democratic lawmakers out of nothing more than habit, a pugnacious watchdog group called White Coat Waste Project (WCW) that was founded by a veteran GOP political strategist who once worked in a taxpayer-funded animal testing lab has been making waves and scoring remarkable victories. WCW’s common-sense ‘don’t ban animal testing, defund it’ approach to ending wasteful and cruel government animal tests is helping rack up wins for center-right lawmakers, taxpayers and of course our animal friends. To wit: In January, the Food and Drug Administration canceled nicotine addiction testing on baby monkeys after lawmakers including Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA), and Congressman Matt Gaetz (R-FL) openly criticized the wasteful project uncovered by WCW. Rep. Gaetz told reporters, “Bureaucrats spending millions of Americans’ hard-earned tax dollars to hook primates on nicotine is exactly the kind of government monkey business that needs to be exposed and ended.” In March, our current GOP-led Congress and President Trump cut funding for horrific experiments on puppies at the Department of Veterans Affairs following a WCW exposé and bipartisan campaign led by Reps. Dave Brat (R-VA) and Brian Mast (R-FL). Rep. Brat wrote on his website that, “these unethical painful taxpayer-funded canine research tests have not provided a scientific breakthrough in decades. It is time to defund these wasteful and distressing experiments on man’s best friend.” Brat took the lead on the issue of these tests were taking place in Richmond, VA rightfully attacked this abuse while Senators Kaine and Warner stood on the sidelines. And now, right wing firebrand Congressman Mike Bishop (R-MI) is taking on government waste and kitten abuse that WCW unearthed at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. After news broke that the USDA has been breeding hundreds of kittens and making them eat rotten meat in deadly experiments, Bishop immediately introduced the Kittens in Traumatic Testing Ends Now (KITTEN) Act to stop the project, remarking, “Any government research program like this one that’s been funded since the Nixon administration needs to be put under the microscope, especially when it involves using kittens as disposable test tubes in harmful tests that most taxpayers oppose.” One historical center-right pioneer in the cause, Abraham Lincoln, would likely agree. Honest Abe was an animal lover whose wife once said his hobby was “cats” (which is extra funny to me because that’s my hobby tooooo, Honest Abe!). Polling shows that a majority of voters—and even more Republicans than Democrats—want to cut cruel and outdated government animal testing, and many conservatives are thrilled that there’s finally a segment of the animal protection movement that represents their principles and values. For evidence, look no further than all of the favorable coverage and commentary about WCW’s work with Congress in the Daily Caller, Town Hall, Washington Times, Washington Examiner, PJ Media,Gateway Pundit and even The 700 Club. The center-right animal protection legacy is older than the labeled center-right movement itself. Kudos is in order for WCW and their other loud and proud fellows’ fresh voices and action in opposing government-sanctioned animal cruelty and giving the needle a much-needed boost on animal welfare in general. The strange left-right bedfellow coalition is nascent, but if and when it truly congeals, unimaginable change will occur.
The Denver Post: Colorado’s political leaders weigh in on Amazon campus bid As cities and developers along the northern Front Range scramble to put together proposals to host Amazon’s second headquarters, political leaders are working behind the scenes to boost Colorado’s chances of coming out on top. Chief among them is U.S. Sen. Cory Gardner, who directly pitched one of the top three executives at Amazon the day after the company asked economic development officials in cities with a population of 1 million or more to submit a proposal by Oct. 19 to host its new corporate campus, known as Amazon HQ2. The day before Amazon publicized its request for proposals on Sept. 7, the Republican congressman met with Jeffrey Wilke, CEO of Amazon Worldwide Consumer, in his Washington, D.C., office for nearly an hour. “We spent a lot of time talking about efforts to boost STEM programs. They talked about how excited they were to be in Colorado, the work they are doing here,” said Gardner. The Daily Camera: Boulder Valley officials say they originally didn’t disclose $850,000 fraud case because of legal issues Boulder Valley School District officials are defending originally not releasing information about last year’s $850,000 fraud case, citing ongoing legal concerns. They’re also talking to committees and other groups about the case, providing assurances that the school district has added safeguards to protect from scammers. A year ago, a scammer posing as a contractor stole about $850,000 of bond construction money. The district has recovered all but $172,000 of that amount. The theft came to the district’s attention when contractor Adolfson and Peterson Construction asked for a payment on a past due account, even though the district had been sending payments. Adolfson and Peterson’s work was part of the district’s $576 million bond issue, approved by voters in 2014. The Cannabist: Milestone for Colorado marijuana: $100M in monthly recreational sales The trend of summer highs for Colorado’s cannabis industry continued in July as monthly recreational sales surpassed the $100 million mark for the first time since legalization. The Cannabist’s calculations of the latest Colorado marijuana tax data show that the state’s cannabis shops sold nearly $137 million in marijuana products — $101.1 million in adult-use sales and another $35.8 million in medical marijuana sales — during the month of July. The monthly sales tax reports posted by the Colorado Department of Revenue and the subsequent extrapolations by The Cannabist customarily come with their share of caveats: The reported receipts largely reflect sales made in July but could vary because of aspects such as incomplete or late-filed returns. The July 2017 sales figures, however, come with some added wrinkles. It’s the first month to reflect a new taxing structure for recreational marijuana.
To meet or not to meet -- that is the question everyone is asking about President Trump and North Korea leader Kim Jong Un. The two leaders have gone back-and-forth on whether they will hold a historic summit this summer as a push for the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula continues. After initially accepting Kim’s invitation, Trump announced he was pulling out of the summit in a letter to the North Korean leader in May. But since then, as talks between officials have continued, Trump has suggested the summit could still happen. Read on for a look at how the meeting came about, fell apart and potentially came back together. Trump accepts invitation Trump accepted Kim’s invitation to meet in early March, the White House said. “President Trump has said for some time that he was open to talks and he would eventually meet with Kim when conditions were right,” then-U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said. “And I think in the president’s judgement that time has arrived now.” Date, time and place is set It wasn’t until May when the date for the summit was publicly set: June 12. Trump said in a tweet that he and Kim would “both try to make it a very special moment for World Peace.” The meeting was scheduled to take place in Singapore. Leaders waffle on meeting Later in May, Trump began to suggest a reverse in course on whether the meeting would take place as North Korean officials threatened to cancel talks. “If it doesn’t happen, maybe it will happen later. You never know about deals. I’ve made a lot of deals,” Trump said on May 22. “You never really know. It may not work out for June 12.” The comments came after a meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in at the White House. Later, after Vice President Mike Pence told Fox News Kim had “asked” for the meeting, North Korea’s vice foreign minister accused the U.S. of “misleading the public opinion as if we have invited them to sit with us.” “We will neither beg the U.S. for dialogue nor take the trouble to persuade them if they do not want to sit together with us,” Choe Sun Hui reportedly said. Trump backs out Trump announced on May 24 that he decided to pull out of the summit in an open letter to Kim. “I was very much looking forward to being there with you,” Trump wrote. “Sadly ... I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting.” “I felt a wonderful dialogue was building up between you and me, and ultimately, it is only dialogue that matters,” Trump continued. “Some day, I look very much forward to meeting you.” The White House also revealed that North Korean officials had stopped coming to recent meetings regarding the summit. North Korea reverses course After Trump pulled out of the summit, North Korea said it was still willing to come to the table. “We express our willingness to sit down face-to-face with the U.S. and resolve issues anytime and in any format,” North Korean Foreign Minister Kim Kye-gwan said on May 25, according to Korean Central News Agency. Trump offers hope for the meeting Trump suggested a summit could still take place in June in a May 25 tweet. “We are having very productive talks with North Korea about reinstating the Summit, which, if it does happen, will likely remain in Singapore on the same date, June 12th, and, if necessary, will be extended beyond that date,” Trump said. South and North Korea meet again Kim and Moon held a surprise meeting on May 26 on the North Korean side of the demilitarized zone reportedly to discuss a path forward for the summit with Trump. Aides travel to North Korea, Singapore Trump said U.S. officials arrived in North Korea for discussions about the summit on May 27. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said, “We continue to prepare for a meeting between the President and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.” “Our United States team has arrived in North Korea to make arrangements for the Summit between Kim Jong Un and myself,” Trump tweeted. “I truly believe North Korea has brilliant potential and will be a great economic and financial Nation one day. Kim Jong Un agrees with me on this. It will happen!” U.S. officials also reportedly met with Kim Chang Son, the North Korean leader’s chief of staff, in Singapore on May 28. “We have put a great team together for our talks with North Korea,” Trump said in a tweet the following day. “Meetings are currently taking place concerning Summit, and more.” New York City meetings Kim Yong Chol, one of Kim’s closest aides and North Korea’s former military intelligence chief, met with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in New York City on May 30. The two are also expected to engage in a “day full of meetings” on May 31, according to the White House. Pompeo met with Kim in April, before he was sworn in as secretary of state, Trump has said.
A New Zealand man has received the shock of his life after police knocked on his door to inform him he doesn’t actually own the house he purchased in 2012 — and they want to confiscate it. Nigel Rothsay only became aware of the administrative error in December, when police raided his next-door neighbor in the small town of Masterton, about 62 miles from Wellington, the capital of New Zealand, on suspicion of dealing methamphetamine, Stuff.co.nz reported. In placing a restraining order on the house under the Criminal Proceeds (Recovery) Act, they discovered that Rothsay actually owned his neighbor’s property and they owned his. “It’s crazy,” he told the website. “I still can’t believe it. My life has been on hold for months.” The mix-up seems to have occurred at some point during the property transfer when the lot numbers were mixed up, although conveyancing business First Property Legal denied wrongdoing. Rothsay said despite initial assurances that he owned the property, the council eventually backtracked. “A guy from council turned up and gave me a real fright. The police were right, I didn’t own my house,” he said. First Property Legal sent Rothsay a letter in February blaming either real estate agent Harcourts, which sold the property, or the seller’s agent, Public Trust. The letter said the houses were initially signed over correctly but then changed two months later because Public Trust told First Property Legal there had been a mistake. “It’s been a huge stress. I’m a builder, but too stressed to work consistently trying to sort it out. I’d like to get back on track,” Rothsay said. A police spokesman told the website they were still trying to remedy the unique situation. “We empathize with the individual and recognize that this is stressful for them,” he said. “However, as more than one party is involved, it is taking longer than anticipated to resolve.”
With the rapid development of artificial intelligence and robotics, concern is beginning to grip a core of important people. Highly capable automated systems and machines will take jobs, and human job-holders will find themselves unable to compete with the vastly superior skills of an army of robots. Without doubt, AI has made tremendous strides, and it is certainly worth considering. The scenario works like this: There are four types of work, depending on how repetitive and how much brain power is required—repetitive and cognitive, non-repetitive and cognitive, repetitive and non-cognitive, and non-repetitive and non-cognitive. Many of the repetitive jobs are already at risk or gone, as well as non-cognitive work. It won’t be long before even highly-cognitive work is also threatened. As work becomes automated and robots become the norm, wide swaths of the population will find themselves without any ability to support themselves and their families. I have seen the analogy of the economy as a plane with four engines, the different types of work. As the engines go out one by one, the plane gets closer and closer to a crash landing. Politicians must do something!!!!!! Fortunately for everyone, the economy is not a plane with four engines that are burning out. It is, instead, a complex adaptive system, in fact an incredibly complex, very adaptive, wide ranging system, covering a huge geographic area, with millions, and indeed billions of people, making billions of decisions every minute of every day. A closer analogy would be a living organism than a machine with engines and controls. It has positive and negative feedback loops that not even the most complex artificial intelligence can or will be able to control or even predict, fundamentally because the actors who make up the system, the vast networks of human bodies and minds, are not atoms with set, determinate properties. They can change their minds, they can be stubborn, they can follow the herd or they can lead the way to change. One thing that we know from the entirety of history is that human society reacts to changes in stimulus. People, very fortunately, are self-interested. When something bad happens, they do whatever they can to preserve their own lives and that of family, friends, etc. They also have found, however, that by cooperating with others, they can magnify their own results. That is why the human race has survived and thrived. The important point to keep in mind is that technology is not a new, competitive, autonomous species intent on displacing humans. It is just a tool for human beings to do things more efficiently or more cheaply, to satisfy their own needs and the needs of others in cooperative exchange. Businesses use automation and technology to be more profitable in those voluntary exchanges. Without customers, however, there is no exchange. That is one of the feedback loops in a functioning economy. Though not perfect as some would like it, as people lose jobs, they lose income, which means less product sold, which means lower prices, which means less capital for investment in automation. It also means that technology declines in price, as demand for it lags. The cheap, abundant technology is not only available for mega corporations, but can also be utilized by individuals and small businesses to increase their own ability to satisfy the wants and needs of others more efficiently. Technology means that, as there are fewer traditional jobs, there is more opportunity for displaced workers to create value in their own way, for their own customers. The only way that that will not happen is if politicians pretend that they know the future and how the economy should work, take matters into their own hands, and do something.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The left is deeply embedded in identity politics. Hillary Clinton took this movement and ran with it in the 90s. For years, she said that the Republicans hated women, eventually making it part of the Democratic platform. The most recent trend is illegal immigration. Recently, President Trump made some comments about MS-13, calling them animals. The Democrat broadcasting service, also known as the mainstream media, did some creative editing to make the footage look like Trump hates immigrants. Liberals may be overplaying their hand. The mayor of New York City, Bill de Blasio, was on MSNBC a couple of days ago. He said that Trump was using MS-13 “to paint Latinos as dangerous in our country.” He went on to say that he read the transcript from Trump’s remarks about the violent gang, saying there are “only a few” MS-13 members in this country. However, there are approximately 10,000 members in America. Just one is too many. In downplaying the number, de Blasio is placing American citizens in danger, and being intellectually dishonest about their volatility. Trump hasn’t shown any disdain for legal immigration. In fact, he encourages it. The president is rightfully against illegal immigrants who come over, take jobs from American citizens, and then send the money that is earned back home, taking hundreds of billions of dollars out of the United States economy. Democrats and never Trumpers have consistently attacked the president for his stance on immigration. Are their grumblings effective? Probably not. There are Americans who are out of work because an illegal immigrant took their job. Their pay is suppressed. And some citizens are on welfare against their will due to an illegal immigrant, or they are working two jobs. Those who are suffering see Trump trying to slow down illegals, and this gives them hope. The Democratic Party steps in and say they are against the president’s immigration agenda. Liberals don’t understand that not everyone wants to live off of the government. They want the freedom and satisfaction of being gainfully employed. Let’s not forget the citizens who have lost loved ones due to illegals committing crimes in this country. Democrats and the media quickly come to the side of illegal aliens in defense of them when they are criticized. The left is not the party for American citizens. Politicians have let themselves get so deep into the so-called Trump derangement syndrome they can’t see the self-inflicted damage, but that’s okay. Democrats don’t need to stop. They should continue down the road of protecting illegal aliens. Trump and midterm politicians need to push the illegal alien issue. Democrats should be put in a position where they publicly choose between illegal aliens, or American citizens (including legal immigrants). Don’t forget that Democrats are the ones who created the DACA debacle. Obama created an unconstitutional edict, causing a legal issue for all the recipients. Now, Trump has to fix it. Hillary was supposed to leave it. Let’s see if the newest identity politics fad on the left pays off in November.
Carmelo Anthony just made a big bet on beer and pizza. The NBA star, along with Somerset Hospitality Group, is leading a $5 million investment to roll out a chain of sports bars and pizza joints nationwide, The Post has learned. Anthony is an investor in Nobodys Pizza, a South Bronx venue from Keith Rubenstein’s real estate empire Somerset, which is now forming a partnership with The Ainsworth, a 10-year-old chain of pubs owned by Brian Mazza and Matt Shendell. The Ainsworth is still basking in a viral internet hit. Its controversial “24-karat chicken wings” got launched in collaboration with self-proclaimed “foodgod” and Kardashian clan pal Jonathan Cheban. Now, the plan is to roll out the Ainsworth alongside Nobodys Pizza at between 20 and 30 locations near sports stadiums across the country over the next seven years, according to Rubenstein. “I am excited about the prospects of partnering with The Ainsworth and Nobody’s Pizza — combining food, entertainment, sports and real estate,” Anthony said in a statement to Side Dish. They’re just beginning to scout locations, but Rubenstein says it’s likely that the first partnership between the two brands will be in Nashville, where The Ainsworth is already planning to open. “We plan to … use our investor base of professional athletes and influencers to promote operations and growth,” Rubenstein said. “Side-by-side openings are just being planned and it is too soon to know where.” Nobodys Pizza was formerly known as La Grata, with a southern Italian menu created by Serafina vet Chef Erminio Conte. The menu, which features items like pesto linguini and a chicken paillard, has now added crowd-pleasers like chicken wings and burgers. The Ainsworth will also open a 7,500-square-foot space in a warehouse Rubenstein is converting into a food hall at 9 Bruckner Blvd. on the South Bronx waterfront. That Ainsworth space will also feature around 5,000 square feet of outdoor space on two levels “with multiple bars and possibly a pool,” Rubenstein said.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Peter Navarro, Assistant to President Trump & White House Office Of Trade And Manufacturing Policy Director, explained to Brian Kilmeade why he feels "duped" for recommending Stefan Halper, the FBI source who assisted the Russia investigation, to the White House personnel office for an unidentified ambassadorship in Asia. Navarro also discussed the reasoning behind yesterday's actions of the White House imposing tariffs and restrictions on Chinese goods. Listen here: Peter Navarro on feeling "duped" for recommending Stefan Halper to the White House (Kilmeade) Peter your name came up in the news when this Cambridge proefessor Stefan Halper, saying you were the guy who recommended him for some type of ambassador in Asia somewhere, do you know him? Did you recommend him for a job? If so, do you feel duped today? (Navarro) Duped, yes. Stefan Halper if you look at his resume its stunning. Cambridge professor, he wrote a best selling book "The Beijing Consensus", he is recognized ax one of the great Chinesse experts. He works for the Pentagon in the Office of Net Assessment which is one of the premiere agencies of government, it's baffling. What I did was refer a spread sheet with twelve names on it to the personnel office and for the life of me I cant figure out how that somehow got out into the press but look, we were all duped by that and shame on, this kind of thing shouldn't be happening. It just shouldn't be happening. (Kilmeade) What do you mean, the informant? (Navarro) Having having spies infiltrate into the Trump campaign. I mean come on. It's like that just that shouldn't take place. I mean that's not that's not America and using using people like that, I mean come on now. It's like I was like I was dumbfounded when I read that news it was like you can't make this stuff up. (Kilmeade) But you know right? Besides having great resume you know him? (Navarro) know here's what I know. I've met him a couple of times he was in he was in my film documentary. I interviewed about 35 Chinese experts for the documentary "Crouching Tiger." It's a 10 part series, He is quite eloquent. I just call him up and said want to do it. I went out to his place with my film crew. We shot it and then I subsequently saw him on two other occasions but that's it. And yeah it's like the 12 people that were on that list there they're fine China experts and yeah I feel duped, yeah pretty much.
A female passenger is speaking out after her male seatmate on a Southwest Airlines flight allegedly masturbated next to her on Tuesday. Uhh @SouthwestAir we have an issue. I’ve spent this entire flight sitting next to a guy who has his iPad open on the tray table, watching porn, WITHOUT using headphones or anything, and twice now his body has started shaking in the throes of his orgasmic bliss. I’m so disgusted. pic.twitter.com/3an0ukXXyt — the real elly-ice™ (@shariatPR) May 29, 2018 The woman, who sent several tweets to Southwest explaining the situation, said the passenger began his crude behavior shortly after takeoff and did not stop throughout the nearly five-hour flight. She claims the male passenger loaded a pornographic video on his iPad and watched several explicit videos “like it was nothing.” “The first time he was ‘finishing,’ he used his left hand and gripped my right forearm, pinning it down to the armrest between us,” the woman told Fox News. The woman also claimed that the man did not hide his lewd behavior and handed over his used napkins to a flight attendant. An airline representative responded to the passenger’s tweets via Southwest’s official Twitter account and told her to notify a flight attendant. But the female passenger claimed she could not notify the cabin crew without putting herself in danger. The representative then suggested she notify the crew once the plane reached its destination, which she reluctantly agreed to do. Fine. I will stay aboard until everyone else gets off the flight, continuing the torture, because that’s exactly what someone who is being assaulted like this wants to do. — the real elly-ice™ (@shariatPR) May 29, 2018 The crew reportedly told the female passenger to tell a supervisor, who then gave her a voucher good for one free dinner. Southwest Airlines also released a statement saying it would investigate the situation, but did not state whether a representative from the company had contacted the woman. “We’re looking into reports that a Customer was viewing material deemed inappropriate by another Customer,” the airline said in a statement. “At this time we have nothing further to share.”
The latest bit of shameless hypocrisy from Sen. Chuck Schumer is an attempt to blame rising gasoline prices on President Trump’s decision to pull out of the Iran deal. Remember, that’s the deal that Schumer voted against. Hypocrisy from Schumer in and of itself wouldn’t be new or newsworthy. The latest from the Senate minority leader, though, is a window into the coming campaign. Take it as a warning. The Democrats will wilt away on foreign policy, even if only for political advantage at home, and, bereft of pro-growth ideas, will use government to strong-arm the markets. It’s what they do. On gas prices, Schumer roped in three other Senate Democrats, Maria Cantwell of Washington, Ed Markey of Massachusetts and Bob Menendez of New Jersey. These Four Horsemen of Hypocrisy showed up just before the Memorial Day weekend at a gas station. Schumer opened by blaming Trump’s “reckless decision to pull out of the Iran deal.” That, he suggested, has led to higher gasoline prices. Then he launched into one of the Democrats’ patented diatribes against corporations and rich people. Menendez, ex-chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, chimed in about geopolitical instability and the Trump administration’s “chaotic approach.” As did Cantwell and Markey. As for the alleged chaos, none of them laid even a particle of responsibility at the feet of the Iranian ayatollahs. Trump may be America First. The Democrats are Blame America First. The idea of blaming rising oil prices on Trump’s pullout from the Iran deal is undermined by a letter the four senators sent May 23 to Trump himself. It doesn’t even mention Iran. It does note that oil prices had been trending upward — 75 percent in the past year — since long before Trump this month announced the end of the Democrats’ policy of Iran appeasement. The Democrats’ letter asked Trump personally to plead with the Saudi crown prince and to send Energy Secretary Rick Perry to whinge to OPEC. They want to launch litigation at the World Trade Organization. And regulate our economy more. Columnist Ira Stoll, who edits the Web site FutureOfCapitalism.com, is particularly devastating on the hypocrisy of the regulatory angle. The Democrats, Stoll notes, are widely resisting not only increased offshore drilling but also new pipelines here in America. And, in the case of Cantwell and Markey, it gets even more ridiculous. Both have introduced legislation whose very purpose was, as Stoll puts it, “to raise the price of fossil fuel energy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change.” Cantwell’s contraption would involve the government selling permits for the importing or use of fossil fuel. That would drive up energy costs. She would redistribute the lucre to non-rich Americans. Markey was a backer in 2009 of what became known as the Waxman-Markey Energy and Security Act, which would have set government prices on the “right” to burn oil, coal or natural gas. The Wall Street Journal warned it could be the “biggest tax in American history.” It went nowhere. Which brings us back to the current campaign. The Schumer-Menendez-Markey-Cantwell complaints show nothing so much as that the Democrats are running on an empty policy tank. They’re going to go into the fall campaign with an energy policy that consists of more regulation, less drilling and sending Rick Perry, whom Democrats once mocked, to talk to our suppliers. The Republicans will be running on the fact that — as Stephen Moore pointed out this week in The Post — by the end of June we could be up to an average growth rate of 3 percent: Boom territory. Trump has already started taking this to the voters. He did so at a rally this week in Tennessee, where after introducing his guests he launched right into the numbers. New jobs created since the election are now at 3.3 million, he boasted; unemployment (it’s below 4 percent) is at the lowest level since the turn of the century. Minority unemployment is at record lows. And, he said, the forgotten men and women are no longer forgotten. How is Schumer going to be able to blame that on pulling out of the Iran deal? Lipsky@nysun.com
Former judge Russell Fagg, who is running for the Montana Senate Republican primary, admitted to plagiarizing while on the Montana Law Review in 1984, which prompted him to resign. Fagg wrote an op-ed in the Montana Billings Gazette in 2017, in which he admitted to plagiarizing an article while serving on the Montana Law Review. The former judge wrote: In 1984, I wrote onto the Montana Law Review while in law school, something I was proud of. While then writing a case note (a summary of a case), I did not use quotation marks properly around the author’s writing. The transgression was a small part of the article, but technically I plagiarized. Fagg also faces two federal complaints regarding alleged unethical behavior. The American Democracy Legal Fund (ADLF) filed a complaint with the Senate Ethics Committee against Fagg for submitting a financial disclosure report with several errors and omissions, which included a failure to disclose his private jet. ADFL’s Brad Woodhouse said, “Russell Fagg has repeatedly tried to keep Montanans in the dark about his finances and his campaign for Senate. Voters deserve transparency in this election and Fagg should stop trying to deceive the people he’s trying to represent.” The ADLF also alleged that Fagg unethically attempted to raise money while serving as a judge. Other Montana politicians have faced steep political consequences for plagiarizing their academic and legal work. In 2014, then-Sen. John Walsh (D-MT) dropped his bid for reelection after reports revealed that he plagiarized a paper he submitted for a master’s degree for the U.S. Army War College. The Army War College rescinded Walsh’s master’s degree after the scandal emerged. Fagg has also faced political backlash over his support for an Internet sales tax. In February, Fagg admitted that he would support an Internet sales tax, and then backtracked a month later. The former judge said, “To answer your question directly, yes I would support an online sales tax.” “I actually did not say I would support an internet tax,” Fagg said a month later. Fagg trails in the polls compared to rancher and state auditor Matt Rosendale. Forty-nine percent of Montana Republican primary voters describe Rosendale as “very conservative.” Sens. Ted Cruz (R-TX), Rand Paul (R-KY), and Mike Lee (R-UT) have endorsed Rosendale for the Montana Senate Republican primary. Cruz wrote in an op-ed in the Flathead Beacon that we need “strong leaders like Matt Rosendale” who will defend the Constitution. Sen. Paul wrote an op-ed in May that Rosendale is a “fearless conservative leader.”
Virginia’s top economic development agency is reorganizing itself in the wake of a blistering 2016 audit report that found the agency was not effectively managed and put the state at risk of fraud and wasteful spending. The Virginia Economic Development Partnership (VEDP), which awarded close to $400 million to companies over the past 10 years, lacked sufficient checks and balances and failed to verify that firms receiving economic development grants were keeping their promises, according to the report issued last December by the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission (JLARC). Barry DuVal, president of the Virginia Chamber of Commerce and a former secretary of commerce and trade, termed the audit report damaging but accurate. “I really think the General Assembly responded effectively in demanding change and set forth a number of items that needed to be addressed,” DuVal told Watchdog.org. The way that the VEDP doled out economic development grants in the past understandably raised concern among those serving on the legislative watchdog panel, he said. “Grants were issued in the past that should have had more vetting and more due diligence prior to releasing state funds,” DuVal said. Stephen Moret, who took over as VEDP president and CEO in January, said the partnership is in the process of carrying out 27 recommendations in the audit report that are under the VEDP’s control. And Moret offers a spirited defense of any accusation that the VEDP is engaged in corporate welfare by providing companies with financial incentives to locate or expand in the commonwealth. “First of all, it’s important to understand that Virginia is one of the smallest incentive states in America,” Moret told Watchdog.org, adding that the state gives our relatively small incentive packages to businesses. “It’s not about the companies’ welfare,” he said. “It’s about the welfare of our economy.” In the future, the VEDP will be a lot less focused on incentives as an economic development tool, according to Moret. Instead, the partnership will be looking more to improve workforce development, expand broadband access and generally make the state a more attractive place for investment, he said. Virginia already has the built-in advantages of having public schools and institutions of higher education that are among the best in the nation, along with one of the best overall business climates, Moret said. Current changes at the VEDP are about two key issues, one of which is to address all the shortcomings mentioned in the legislative audit, he said. The second is more broad-based. “If you think about Virginia, this is one of America’s premier states, so we want to create a state economic development organization that is equal to the aspirations that we have for Virginia,” Moret said. The VEDP will report back to the General Assembly before the end of the year, and he expects to be able to say that the clear majority of the recommendations will have been fulfilled. A timeline for whatever changes remain will also be laid out, Moret said. Though the legislative audit focused on VEDP problems, it gave the agency high marks for its efforts at helping companies develop or expand their presence in international markets. The legislature passed a measure that would have shifted the international trade role to a separate agency, he said, but lawmakers eventually decided not to implement it. “It will remain as a very important division of VEDP,” Moret said. In fact, he said, the agency is working to expand that area so it has adequate staff to help more companies in the international arena. A 2015 Virginia Chamber of Commerce study found that between 2009 and 2014, 30 percent of the state’s job creation was related to exports. The agency operates offices in the United Kingdom, China, Japan and India. Another key area for the VEDP will be to work closely with community colleges and technical schools to create customized worker-training programs for in-demand jobs, Moret said, adding that companies’ site selections often hinge on having a skilled local workforce. “We’re not currently a leader in state workforce development programs,” he said. Among Moret’s overarching goals are to see the state add 75,000 jobs annually and to position every region of Virginia for economic growth. Though some lawmakers reacted with alarm when the 2016 audit was released, they now seem optimistic about the VEDP’s reboot. “I believe the VEDP is now functioning efficiently under its new leadership,” Delegate John O’Bannon III, R-Henrico, a member of the Appropriations Committee, told Watchdog.org in an email. “I am confident they will meet the JLARC recommendations and are well prepared to improve Virginia’s economic outlook.” DuVal, the chamber president, said the VEDP, chamber and the Virginia Tech School of Business are currently working together to evaluate the state’s competitiveness and national business climate rankings, which have slipped somewhat in recent years. A report on how the state can improve the rankings will be released Dec. 1, he said. DuVal expects the chamber and VEDP to continue working cooperatively in the years to come. “The new leadership has brought the right vision and organization,” he said.
Second Lady Karen Pence and her daughter Charlotte Pence have given readers a glimpse into what a day in the life of a vice president is like - through the eyes of their pet bunny. They chatted with Townhall this week about their new book, Marlon Bundo's Day in the Life of the Vice President. Both of the Pence women were able to exercise their talents for the project, they shared with Townhall on Monday. Charlotte, who wrote the poetry in the book, has been "writing for as long as she can remember." She studied screen writing and creative writing in undergrad and described it as a definite "passion" of hers. For Karen, painting is something that she loves to do, although the past year most of her artwork consisted of Marlon Bundo watercolors. The book is intended for children, but I wondered if it also gave the Pences a chance to show off a bit of their personality. "In the beginning, we just thought it would be a fun thing," Mrs. Pence said. "Then the more she changed her idea, I think she realized this would be an educational book because a lot of people don’t know what the vice president does. The last few pages can serve as a study guide for teachers to go through some of the facts about the vice president’s job." Charlotte admitted that she didn't even know really know what a vice president does, until her family jumped into the role. "I don’t think I knew that much about the official duties of the vice president either really until our family was in this role," she shared. Charlotte gushed about being able to join her family on some pretty amazing international trips and meeting people from all other the world. She served as a sort of adviser to her father, helping him with speech prep or sitting in on meetings. Mrs. Pence, too, says representing the United States on a global scale has been the most thrilling part of her new gig. "For me, I can say, biggest honor was last February when I got to lead a delegation to the special Olympics in Austria," she recalled. "I don’t know how anything will ever top it. It was pouring down, freezing rain and they didn’t care. They sang along, it was really moving." Another perk has been getting to know the Trump family. "We’ve gotten to know their family pretty well when I was on the campaign trail," Charlotte explained. "We got to hang out with the Trump children and grandchildren. "They're a very big, close family and we are as well. We all just meshed really well together." In case you're wondering, Marlon Bundo will be joining the Pence women on the book tour. But, don't expect to pet or hold him. "He’s very tame, but if he had a lot of people around him, he gets nervous," Mrs. Pence explained. The 4-5-year old bunny will be keeping to his cage and new little travel bag.
Lara Trump is embracing the holiday spirit, sharing a photo of herself to Instagram in a $55 navy blue “Make America Great Again” one-piece swimsuit. “In honor of the holiday weekend: #flashback to double mirrored sunglasses!! By popular request, link to bathing suit in bio‼” the 35-year-old wrote in a May 26 post, which has since been liked over 21,000 times. HIGH SCHOOL SPEAKS OUT AFTER BEING CRITICIZED FOR NOT ALLOWING GRADUATING SENIOR TO WEAR ARMY SASH President Trump’s daughter-in-law completed the look with white lace shorts and a ponytail. She holds her son Luke, eight and a half months old, also wearing mirrored shades, at a beachfront location. According to the swimsuit’s listing at the Trump online campaign store, wearers can “make a YUGE splash” this summer in the one-piece with a high-rise style cut and low back. Similarly, men’s swim trunks are also offered with the same design, with the president’s tagline printed vertically with red stripes. Both suits are “proudly made in the USA.” FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
One Chick-fil-A owner might have finally given liberals a reason to praise the Christian company it loves to hate. Eric Mason, who has owned a Chick-fil-A in Sacramento, California, for almost three years now, announced earlier this week that he will start paying those applying for the store's "hospitality professional" position $17 an hour. He currently pays his employees $12 to $13 an hour. It’s not exactly clear what a “hospitality professional’s” role is, but a local listing on a job search site for another California Chick-fil-A gives us an idea. “A Hospitality Professional provides world-renowned, extraordinary service to our guests. The position is essential to the restaurant in having a positive influence on all who comes into contact with Chick-fil-A,” the ad reads. “Hospitality Professionals provides unforgettable hospitality within the four walls of our restaurant and even beyond through our Drive-Thru. We do not require restaurant experience as a pre-requisite for consideration for employment.” Minimum wage in the state is currently $11 an hour. However, California is steadily increasing that rate by $0.50 a year. By 2020, the minimum wage will be $15 an hour. But according to Mason, that’s not why he made the decision to raise his employees' wages — at least it’s not the only reason. “The people is the real key component to successful businesses,” Mason explained to ABC 10. “We're looking for people who are looking for long-term opportunity, someone who can build relationships with our guests.” “We're looking for people trying to raise families, improve their lifestyle,” he added. However, if the past —and a slate of studies — are anything to go by, a higher minimum wage doesn’t always translate to a higher standard of living for workers. In 2014, Seattle passed a $15 an hour wage hike that was set to take place over two years. It was a disaster. New York City also gave the wage hike thing a go and didn’t fare any better. The result in both cases was business closures, fewer job opportunities overall, and fewer hours for those who could find work. But these prime examples of how raising the minimum wage can go horribly wrong hasn't slowed down the Fight for 15. Eighteen states decided to raise their minimum wages in 2018. Those with the biggest hikes were Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, New York, Rhode Island and Vermont. While many businesses in California are preparing for the change, Mason seems to be the exception by raising his employees' wages all at once. “All responsible employers are preparing for the impact of the increasing minimum wage, but they are usually doing it over time and planning for it,” Carey Klosterman, director of research and compensation services at the California Employers Association, told Fox2Now. “While increasing the wage to this level at a fast food restaurant is commendable, I don’t foresee that many businesses will likely be following in their footsteps.” It’s not hard to see why. Wage hikes are expensive for a business, hence why so many restaurants went under in the Empire State. But according to Fox2Now, Mason will likely see one benefit to paying his workers so much more: a reduced turnover rate. Of course, keeping workers for longer won’t mean much if the business closes its doors before the end of the year. Mason says he knows it won’t be easy, but he doesn’t appear too worried. The change will take effect Monday, June 4th. Now if only Chick-fil-A would hire people to work on Sundays. That’s a change everyone could get behind.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Leftists are pushing a new narrative. This past weekend the flavor was cruelty. CNN, MSNBC, and other left-wing news outlets began crying afoul of the illegal immigrant children separated from their parents after crossing the border. To “prove” this is happening, someone found a photo and posted it on Twitter. In the picture, two immigrant kids are sleeping in a cage on a concrete floor after being detained. It didn’t take long for politicians, actors, actresses, liberal reporters, and anyone who hates President Trump to share the photo. There is only one problem. The picture isn’t from Trump’s presidency. It was from 2014 when Obama was still in office. Oops. Linda Sarsour and Shaun King were a couple of notable people who retweeted the photo. Unfortunately, their “outrage” was feigned. Sarsour has no problem with radical Islam, which allows the beating of children. This is King’s second faux pas in as many weeks. Last week, he quickly jumped on the opportunity to accuse a Texas highway patrol trooper of allegedly sexually assaulting a drunk driver. The officer’s body camera footage promptly exonerated the trooper. Is King ever going to learn? When conservative news outlets proved that the picture was from Obama’s ICE department, leftists began to delete their tweets. They quickly moved along as nothing happened. There were no apologies for causing an uproar. Why? The truth came out. The fact can’t be acknowledged or tolerated. The left gets mad only when they can push their agenda. Leftists operate on feelings. They have mastered the art of working up their constituents into a frenzy for a public outcry and have gotten pretty good at it. No matter how effective this may be, Conservatives should not abandon the truth. Ultimately, the truth will prevail. The 9th circuit court of appeals has ruled that illegal immigrant children are away for a short time from the adults who bring them here, giving authorities time to assure child trafficking isn’t occurring. These children end up in foster homes. If liberals cared about these children, they wouldn’t encourage adults to make a dangerous trip across the desert only to have children in these “barbaric” and “inhumane” holding cells. That is unless a Democratic president is in office, then it’s okay to use the chain link cages. On a weekly basis, leftists end up having a political attack fail in front of them. It would be nice to know how many left-leaning voters have given up on the current state of the Democratic party. Left-wingers have forgotten about their voters to attack Trump. This is particularly dangerous for Democrats. But do they see that? After all, a significant amount of union workers and Democrat Reagan voters cast a ballot for Trump, but it seems to be unnoticed. The left is losing. The best thing the left could do is attack Trump with policy. Instead, they assault him with fake photos, and that’s okay.
1:09 Paris Jackson refused to sit by and watch Dior's horse show It’s no moonwalk, but Paris Jackson’s epic walkout at a French fashion show has people talking. The 20-year-old left the Dior show early because she reportedly was offended by the treatment of animals at the fashion house's Mexican rodeo-themed show. 1:49 The Drake-Pusha T beef is the messiest in rap history Drake and Pusha T have taken their beef to the next level, after the less famous rapper released a diss track, “The Story of Adidon,” accusing Drake of hiding a love child he had with a porn star named Sophie. The diss track was accompanied by a shocking “unedited” photo of Drake in blackface. 3:39 MeToo charges starting to haunt Morgan Freeman Morgan Freeman is experiencing fallout after eight women accused the Hollywood star of sexual misconduct. “I apologize to anyone who felt uncomfortable or disrespected — that was never my intent,” Freeman wrote in a statement to The Post. 0:56 Brad Pitt threw Harvey Weinstein against a wall Brad Pitt came to Gwyneth Paltrow’s defense back in 1996. After Harvey Weinstein allegedly made a pass at the “Emma” actress, Pitt threw Weinstein against a wall. “If you ever make her feel uncomfortable again, I’ll kill you,” Pitt reportedly said to the now-disgraced media mogul. 3:23 Kim Petras is the first transgender pop star Kim Petras could be the next Britney Spears. This is the 25-year-old trans singer’s journey to pop stardom. Her music video for “I Don’t Want It All” has nearly two million views on YouTube. 1:42 HSN exec called out for sending 'disrespectful' email A scandal has hit QVC and the Home Shopping Network. After the two TV giants merged, HSN’s on-air training manager, Gordie Daniels, sent an email to the entire staff that many found disrespectful. HSN is home to Mariah Carey, while QVC boasts Ellen DeGeneres as one of its star hosts. 1:54 Sonja Morgan’s equal-opportunity humpfest on the dance floor What some people call “humping,” Sonja Morgan calls grinding and dancing. While the “RHONY” star had a wild night on the town in New York, dancing dirty with both men and women, she told Page Six that the reports were greatly “exaggerated.” 1:55 Amber Heard is dating Heidi Klum’s ex Johnny Depp and Elon Musk are long gone. Amber Heard has a new beau in her life, art dealer Vito Schnabel. The two were spotted “locking lips” over breakfast at West Village hot spot Sant Ambroeus. 1:08 'He was so hot’: Countess Luann confirms fling with Keith Hernandez Long before she married the Count, Luann de Lesseps dated Mets legend Keith Hernandez. While he told Andy Cohen that the two “hooked up,” the Countess says it was more like dating. “He was so hot, I had such a crush on him,” she dished to "Page Six TV."
The market finished slightly lower for the week, but the Russell 2000 continued to reach new all-time highs. The tone of the week was largely positive and breadth encouraging as there were more 52-week highs than new lows every day on the NASDAQ and every day except Tuesday on the NYSE. Overall the market is up for the month after that dramatic intraday reverse on May 2nd investors are now looking for the next catalyst(s). I agree with President Trump; the market is watching trade negotiations closely. Considering trade through April with the three nations, China, Mexico, and Canada: Imports $282 billion Exports $169 billion But what about traditional drivers of the economy and stock market? While businesses are doing great and stepping up investments the big question these days revolve around the state of mind of the American consumers. Consumers have the cash as wages are higher and disposable income after servicing debt remains high. There is less stress but curious reality emerging among consumers. Great Recession Hangover We learned last week from the New York Fed that Americans are sitting pretty but acting tepidly and that could have consequences for the economy. Record low bankruptcies Record high household net worth Record low credit inquires I say folks are smarter having lived through the Great Recession and many will never get over their financial miscues again if they can help it. That means using debit and paying off credit when they can. It means they won’t over spend on things like toilet paper or soup (see Campbell’s soup drubbing). Then there’s the competitive nature of retail, particularly brick and mortar retail which has been hit or miss with Macy’s surging this week as Nordstrom’s was hammered. Overall the S&P Retail ETF (XRT) has been on fire and next week we will hear from a slew of retailers including: TJ Maxx, Kohl’s, Target, Ralph Lauren, Tiffany, Best Buy, and the Gap. Today’s Session China Trade Showdown: Averted? A grand bargain is rapidly being hammered together which could result in China: + Imports US goods + 40% agriculture imports +100% energy imports + Technology protections Mainstream media replies: Trump all bark no bite. LOL! The fact of the matter is the US media and all of those that never heard of ZTE until two weeks ago are making it easier for China to drive a harder bargain. There are a lot of details to be hammered out so it’s not a done deal, but the saber-rattling is over as the focus has shifted to resolution which means a better deal than we had when the elites in America railed against the Trump administration for disrupting the status quo. In the end I want technology protections but it’s the core of China’s ambitions. A deal that slows that and opens china’s market would be monumental. Period! In addition to the China news there’s the strong earnings pronouncement from Micron powering semiconductors and a general sense North Korea will be solved at some point.
The island of Hawaii is the newest one in the state of Hawaii, and is still growing. It is the only one with active volcanoes and regular lava flows. The others were formed the same way millions of years ago, but have shifted away from the volcanic hot spot long ago. There is presently no risk of volcanic eruption anywhere in Hawaii but on the big island. The United States Geological Survey has divided that island into different zones, depending on the risk. Volcanic activity increased in the 1980s, and, in the 1990s, after millions of dollars of losses, insurance companies started to refuse to cover homes that were in the highest risk areas. In order to cover actual damages over time, the premiums would have to be too high for homeowners to afford. When people couldn’t get home insurance in high-risk areas, the state legislature instituted a program called the Hawaii Property Insurance Association (HPIA) to offer insurance at affordable rates when private companies would not. It is funded by forcing all private insurers in the state of Hawaii to contribute to the Association in proportion to the total amount of insurance they offer in the state. Thus the relatively inexpensive policies offered to high-risk property owners, rather than being subsidized directly through taxes, are subsidized through higher premiums for everyone else in the state who chooses not to live in a high risk zone, an indirect, hidden, informal tax on other property owners. It is doubtless true that, though political pressure for selfish reasons was part of it, at least part of the impetus for the formation of HPIA was compassion by some people for those who would not be able to insure their homes. The problem is not the compassion, but rather the negative unintended consequences of ignoring economic reality. The situation is the same for another similar program, subsidized national flood insurance. Insurance is an investment in profitable activity, and providers must weigh risks involved when they set premiums. The higher the risk, the higher the premiums must be to cover all related costs. True insurance is not a plan for low risk customers to subsidize high risk customers. It is a method to equalize the risk of loss so that each risk category carries its own weight. Anything else, like HPIA and flood insurance, is not really insurance, but rather some other type of redistribution scheme, regardless of what it is called. Insurance is a reasonable way for people to share risk of major losses for infrequent, unpredictable, uncontrollable events. It makes sense to pay a portion of replacement cost every year for the peace of mind that, in the unlikely event of catastrophe, all will not be lost. Risk can be statistically determined for a large pool of policy holders. If, however, hurricane damage is known to occur every ten years or so for a particular locality, an annual premium would have to be one tenth of the damages plus administrative expenses in order for it to be viable, more expensive than most people can afford. For both volcano and flood insurance made artificially inexpensive for high-risk areas, the perverse incentives actually put more people and property at risk, because it removes the cost of bad choices and places it on people who didn’t make them. People build more homes or more expensive ones in flood plains, hurricane-prone ocean fronts, and in areas of potential lava flows than they would if they had to pay the full, long-term cost of their choices. Hurricane damage keeps increasing over the years because more people make bigger, more-foolish decisions, only because they don’t bear the full cost. Both programs are based on the same bad idea.
KKR & Co.’ will pay $8.3 billion to buy BMC Software, sources said — marking the buyout shop’s biggest acquisition in years. Henry Kravis’ firm is working with Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs and four unregulated banks to arrange financing for the LBO, a source said. KKR announced the deal on Tuesday, but the price was not disclosed. “It’s an unusual lineup for something that big,” a lending source said, adding that you would expect to see Bank of America or JPMorgan in on the action. KKR might be turning to less traditional lending sources because of the amount of leverage it is using to complete the buyout, the source speculated. In a separate deal, KKR’s pending bid for Envision Healthcare, the private equity firm is raising 7.25 times Ebitda. Financing for that deal is still being shopped. Over the last several years, PE firms have typically not borrowed money for much greater than a six times Ebitda. The Post broke the news last week that KKR was in exclusive talks to buy BMC.
Cars.com has hired JPMorgan Chase to explore strategic options including a possible sale of the company, The Post has learned. The online car retailer earlier this month added two directors to its 11-member board that were nominated by activist investor Starboard Capital. With the activist firm headed by Jeff Smith in the boardroom, it looks unlikely this assignment is for anything but a sale, a source following the situation said. “Hiring a banker means they think they can get $40 a share as that is what they want to sell for,” the source said. Cars.com shares on Wednesday were recently trading at $25.19, up 3 percent. Cars.com didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. Possible suitors include buyout firm Apax Partners and Atlanta-based cable TV company Cox Communications, which reportedly kicked the tires on the company two years ago before it went public. Publishing giant Hearst, which owns Popular Mechanics, last month told trade publication DealReporter it might have interest in Cars.com if it were for sale. Cars.com says it attracts 19.4 million unique monthly visitors. Another large private equity firm too has recently started doing diligence on the $1.8 billion market cap company in case it came up for sale, the source following the situation said. Cars.com shares got hit earlier this month when Facebook announced it was expanding its auto marketplace into Canada and the UK, following a recent announcement it was doing the same in the US. Overall, Cars.com has been essentially flat since spinning off from local TV broadcaster Tegna last June at $25.34. Cars.com’s revenue-sharing partnerships with publishers including Gannett will be running out in a few years. Cars.com then can keep more of the profits from the auto dealerships that pay to advertise on the site, according to sources.
Progress, in the form of new fiber-optic networks, is proving temporarily costly to taxpayers due to water-line breaks. Watchdog.org’s Kenric Ward recently reported on the near-weekly breaks in San Antonio, where Google Fiber is building a gigabit-capable high-speed internet network. Total costs for repairs are expected to top $250,000, and the San Antonio Water System is slowly being reimbursed by the contractors responsible for the damages. RELATED: Water utility chases unpaid Google Fiber bills A similar situation has arisen in Nashville, where Google Fiber, AT&T and Comcast are building or expanding networks. Watchdog discovered that at least one business owner is now negotiating with Google Fiber contractors for reimbursement after his eatery lost most of its business during a major water-line break last October. Swett’s Restaurant has been a staple of north Nashville for six decades, but after a crew hit a water line on Oct. 30, causing flooding of Clifton Avenue, that restaurant lost thousands of dollars in business when the street became impassable for several days, estimated owner David Swett in a letter to Mayor Megan Barry and the Nashville Metro Council. “As a taxpayer, I … find this unacceptable,” he wrote. “The city would not allow me to expand my restaurant if it required neighboring businesses to close for periods of time or suffer substantial financial loss. It is not fair that Google Fiber gets special treatment. Their emphasis on quick growth at any cost should not come on the backs of small businesses.” Swett’s attorney, C.K. McLemore, told Watchdog this was the second time the water main had been broken in a month. The two haven’t pursued litigation yet, and are now trying to work out compensation outside the courtroom. “There have been a ton of disruptions due to breaks in water lines trying to install this network in Nashville,” McLemore told Watchdog. The tally of water-line breaks related to fiber construction between August 2015 and October 2016 was 71, with $261,889 in damages. Contractors had only paid Nashville’s Metro Water Services back $24,589 as of Oct. 27, 2016. Watchdog attempted to contact MWS spokeswoman Sonia Allman for more updated information, but hasn’t heard back from her via email or phone. The records show the contractors responsible for the damage, but not the company they’re working for. An AT&T spokeswoman told WRCB in Nashville that the company’s subcontractors had damaged water lines during fiber installation twice between January 2015 and August 2016. Comcast Public Relations Director Sara Jo Walker told Watchdog on Wednesday that the company had experienced no major hits to any utilities in Nashville. The company has invested more than $120 million in the Nashville area to bring multi-gigabit speeds to the region, she said. “We are consistently working in dozens of neighborhoods across the area to strengthen our customers’ internet experience and to offer faster speeds to more people,” Walker said. Google Fiber didn’t reveal how much damage its contractors had done, but said “our proactive damage prevention program includes careful planning with each entity, beginning with requesting utilities be accurately marked to construction coordination.” Water line breaks are mostly a nuisance, but Google Fiber crews have also ruptured gas lines, which can be a much more serious public threat. A gas leak along Wallace Road in south Nashville caused by a Google Fiber contractor last April resulted in the evacuations of the Women’s Imaging Center and eight homes along Hopedale Drive. Google Fiber contractors also hit a gas line on Herman Street last July. WRCB reported there have been at least four gas line leaks by Google Fiber contractors in Nashville. Google Fiber’s rivals, including AT&T and Comcast, are currently suing over “one-touch, make-ready” ordinances in Nashville and Louisville. RELATED: AT&T sues Nashville over one-touch, make-ready ordinance These laws, designed to aid Google Fiber in building its network more quickly, would allow a single contractor to move all existing network equipment on any utility poles in the city to prepare them for a new provider to install its equipment. AT&T argues in its lawsuit in Tennessee district court that there’s not sufficient recourse if its property is damaged and the new law could interfere with existing union contracts. Although much of the fiber is installed above ground along the poles, a fair amount of the work still takes place underground, leading to taxpayer headaches. Johnny Kampis is a national reporter for Watchdog.org. Contact him at jkampis@watchdog.org and on Twitter @TuscaloosaJohn
A study from the University of Wisconsin-Madison released this week revealed that President Donald Trump’s Tax Cuts and Jobs Act led to an increase in defined-benefit pension plans in 2017. President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December, which lowered the corporate tax rate from 35 to 21 percent, starting in 2018. The researchers found that the rate reduction incentivized companies to increase their contributions in 2017 so that they can take advantage of the deductions at the higher tax rate in 2017. Dan Lynch, one of the authors of the paper, said, “Firms contributed more to their pensions in 2017 because they could get a tax deduction at 35 percent.” The researchers found that on average, the companies increased their unexpected pension contributions by $16 million each. This increased contribution amounts to roughly 24 percent increase from 2014 to 2016. The researchers contend in their paper: Our findings suggest the reduction in the corporate tax rate incentivized firms to increase pension contributions, resulting in a wealth transfer from capital to labor. Importantly, this was not a primary consideration in the decision to lower the corporate tax rate. Our results suggest a potential unintended consequence of the rate reduction. The American economy continues to benefit from Trump’s tax cut legislation. The Conference Board’s Consumer Confidence Index found that consumer confidence continues to stay a 17-year high. President Trump tweeted on Monday, “A Democratic lawmaker just introduced a bill to Repeal the GOP Tax Cuts (no chance). This is too good to be true for Republicans…Remember, the Nancy Pelosi Dems are also weak on Crime, the Border and want to be gentle and kind to MS-13 gang members…not good!”
So just to bring you up to date: --The FBI used an informant to spy on Trump campaign aides who had contacts with Russia. The New York Times and Washington Post extensively described the man and what he did, based on FBI leaks, but refused to publish his name out of concern for his safety. Their narratives enabled several mostly smaller outlets to identify the retired American professor living in London, leaving the big organizations protecting a secret that is no longer secret (the Post bowed to reality last night and named the informant). --The president of the United States then demanded that the Justice Department investigate whether the FBI or DOJ infiltrated or surveilled his campaign for political purposes. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, a Trump appointee, who the president may or may not be trying to force out, asked the department's inspector general to look into the matter. --At the same time, DOJ is resisting a subpoena from House intel chairman Devin Nunes for all documents related to the professor—but not his name—which the panel has been trying to get for months. --Hours before Gina Haspel was sworn in as CIA director yesterday, Trump went on a Twitter tear against Barack Obama's CIA chief, John Brennan, for having disgraced himself and the country, blaming Brennan for ginning up the whole Russia probe as a political hit job. Brennan says Trump is on a disastrous path. --Trump also lambasted the Justice Department for not continuing to investigate Hillary Clinton over her email server, and questioned why the brother of her campaign chairman, Tony Podesta, has not been charged in conection with his lobbying work. --And the Times reported that Donald Trump Jr. met with an emissary for two Arab princes who wanted to offer help to the campaign, a story the president dismissed as boring. Got it? And that's without getting into Michael Cohen, Michael Avenatti, the hush money to Stormy Daniels, and other allegations swirling around the president. During a break in my show on Sunday, the assembled journalists agreed that it is becoming increasingly hard, even for those of us who do this seven days a week, to keep unraveling every thread of this tangle of investigations and allegations. So what must it be like for average Americans who are busy with work and family and couldntt tell Carter Page from George Papadopoulos? I believe much of the country, despite the nonstop media coverage, is tuning this out, or that it's been reduced to background noise. That means Trump has, at least for now, neutralized what the press is casting as a grave threat to his political survival. Maybe that's why his approval ratings are inching up. There are monumental issues at stake here. From the right, it seems outrageous that the Obama administration would use a secret informant who's had past dealings with the CIA to infiltrate an opposing presidential campaign. And Trump's push to investigate the investigators is viewed as justified because of "deep state" opposition, with the side benefit of undercutting the Robert Mueller investigation. From the left, it seems outrageous that a president would force his own Justice Department to investigate a duly authorized probe that, despite charges of politicization, the FBI managed to keep secret until the final days of the campaign. And Trump's continued insistence on investigating his defeated opponent and other Democrats is viewed as shattering all previous presidential norms. But when you have this endless cycle of charges and countercharges on such complicated issues, it can all seem like a blur.
When used correctly, sunscreens are designed to protect you against sunburns and skin cancer. However, new reports paint a dire picture of sunscreen products. The nonprofit Environmental Working Group’s 12th annual sunscreen guide found 67 percent of products tested didn’t work well or contained potentially harmful ingredients. In addition, Consumer Reports’ annual sunscreen buying guide found that about a third, or 24 of 73, tested at less than half of the SPF on their labels. New York dermatologist Dr. Whitney Bowe believes not all sunscreens are made equal. To pick out a trusted product, she recommends you start by looking for three important things on the label: Broad-spectrum, an SPF of 30 or higher and water resistant. “So broad spectrum means its covering against both UVA and UVB rays, so think A for aging and B for burn,” Bowe told Fox News. One thing Bowe said many consumers often overlook, which can hinder sunscreen protection, is that the lotions do have an expiration date. BEST SKINCARE REGIMENS FOR SUMMER SELFIES “Most sunscreens are designed to last about three years before they expire, but that’s only if you keep the sunscreen in a cool, dry, location,” Bowe explained. “So what do most people do with their sunscreens? They bring it to the beach, they leave it on a towel baking in the sun, they leave it in their hot car, then all bets are off, because those ingredients are going to break down and then they’re not only not effective, [but] you can burn through them. My rule of thumb is buy new sunscreens every season.” Expired sunscreens can also potentially cause irritations or a rash on the skin, she added. Below, see Bowe's top picks, including lotions, sprays and sticks, for both adults and children. Sunscreen for adults: La Roche-Posay Anthelios Clear Skin SPF 60 Sunscreen, $19.99; at La Roche-Posay A post shared by La Roche-Posay USA (@larocheposayusa) on May 21, 2018 at 6:00am PDT “It has the words ‘clear skin’ on it, [and] it’s great for acne prone skin,” Bowe said, who is an expert advisor to both La Roche-Posay and Aveeno brands. “It basically doesn’t clog the pores and it has a little bit of a matte finish so it doesn’t leave you with that shiny sort of look a couple hours after applying it.” Coppertone Clearly Sheer Whipped Sunscreen Lotion SPF 50, $14.99; at Target A post shared by Coppertone USA (@coppertoneusa) on May 27, 2017 at 11:19am PDT “A really great drug store brand that I love to throw in my beach bag is made by Coppertone, it’s actually a whipped sunscreen. It’s really fun to use and one of the mistakes people make when it comes to using sunscreens is that they don’t use enough and this one comes out and actually looks like whip cream so you end up using about as much as you actually should,” Bowe said. When it comes to applying sunscreen, you want to shoot for a shot glass full, or about 2 ounces to cover your face as well as your other exposed areas, and you want to reapply that same amount every two hours if the skin is dry, Bowe explained. SuperGoop City Sunscreen Serum SPF 30, $42.00; at Supergoop A post shared by Supergoop! (@supergoop) on May 15, 2018 at 6:09am PDT “It’s a great multi-tasker because not only does it act as a moisturizer and a sunscreen but it also has anti-oxidants in it so it protects the skin from environmental stressors like pollution so it’s great for anti-aging and sun protection.” Colorescience Sunforgettable Total Protection Brush-On Shield SPF 50, $65.00; Colorescience A post shared by Colorescience (@colorescience) on May 17, 2018 at 2:40pm PDT “It’s actually a brush on powder and it comes in a travel size so you can just throw it in your pocketbook if you’re going to go out to lunch or drive a little bit in between offices. You can brush it right on top of your makeup, and it’s great for reapplication.” Sunscreens for kids: Baby Bum SPF 50 Mineral Face Stick, $9.99; at Baby Bum A post shared by Georgiana | Motherhood Blog🌴 (@modernmotherhoodblogs) on May 24, 2018 at 10:03am PDT “It’s a face stick, [and] it’s this little cute thing that’s perfect for tiny little noses, tiny little lips, tiny little ears and its really fun for the kids to get involved too. It’s not like a messy sunscreen so I can hand that to a little child and let them get involved in the sunscreen process.” Aveeno Baby Continuous Protection Sensitive Skin Lotion SPF 50, $10.97; at Walmart A post shared by Aveeno (@aveenous) on May 5, 2018 at 7:45am PDT “I love this one because it has an oat extract so it’s really soothing and gentle even for the most sensitive skin and it doesn’t lead to tears if it gets in the eyes. That’s huge for those of you who are parents, because I am, and it’s just a meltdown if it gets in the eyes.” There is also a new trend of glitter sunscreens for kids, Bowe said. “It remains to be seen how these perform on independent testers like Consumer Reports but it certainly is fun, and for kids who are reluctant to put on sunscreen that may be an added incentive to make it a little bit more glamorous.” FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS If you want to be extra cautious with your little ones, Bowe recommends wearing rash guards with UPF 50, wide brimmed hats and sunglasses and to practice safe sun behaviors like seeking shade between the hours of 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. when the sun is at its strongest.
Trump is pressuring Germany to cancel a natural gas pipeline deal with Russia. There are signs Merkel may cave in. More Hardball: President Trump Presses Germany to Drop Russian Pipeline for Trade Deal. "The officials said Mr. Trump told German Chancellor Angela Merkel in April that Germany should drop support for Nord Stream 2, an offshore pipeline that would bring gas directly from Russia via the Baltic Sea. This would be in exchange for the U.S. starting talks with the European Union on a new trade deal. Raising the pressure further, Sandra Oudkirk, a senior U.S. diplomat, told journalists in Berlin on Thursday that as a Russian energy project the pipeline could face U.S. sanctions, putting any company participating in it at risk. Mr. Trump has publicly criticized the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, saying at a meeting with Baltic State leaders at the White House this year that “Germany hooks up a pipeline into Russia, where Germany is going to be paying billions of dollars for energy into Russia…That’s not right.”" Not Right?! Excuse me for asking but what's wrong with it? If individuals want to voluntarily make trade deals it's nearly impossible for anything to be wrong with it. Notice that I said "individuals". Free trade ultimately is between individuals, not countries. US LNG a Bad Deal For Europe "Liquefied gas from the U.S. needs to be shipped over the Atlantic and would be considerably more expensive than Russian gas delivered via pipelines. A senior EU official working on energy regulation said Russian gas would be at least 20% cheaper. “Trump’s strategy seems to be to force us to buy their more expensive gas, but as long as LNG is not competitive, Europe will not agree to some sort of racket and pay extortionate prices,” an EU official said." Yet, there are signs Germany is wavering. Merkel Caving Already? A senior German official said “We are in principle open to that, but the question is what quantities the Americans can provide, and at what price.” "But with fresh pressure from Washington and with Germany’s lucrative U.S. trade relationship at risk, Ms. Merkel is traveling to Russia on Friday to meet Mr. Putin in a bid to broker a compromise that would satisfy the U.S. and her European partners." Anyone who thinks Trump will make a deal and stick with it has holes in the head. Everything is subject to negotiation, renegotiation, and cancellation at a whim. Not Germany's Decision Curiously, this is not Germany's decision to make. "A U.S.-German agreement on Nord Stream 2 may not be enough to resolve trans-Atlantic trade tensions. For trade talks to start, members of the EU would have to give the EU bureaucracy a mandate to start formal negotiations with Washington and not all members are interested in a new deal German government officials say that since all the permits for Nord Stream 2 have been issued, there is no legal way to stop the project, which is run by Gazprom , the Russian energy giant, under financing agreements with international companies such as Engie, OMV, Shell, Uniper and Wintershall." Convoluted Story This story is amazingly convoluted. Merkel is traveling to Russia looking for a compromise that is well outside her scope to make. And it would force Europe to overpay for US LNG. This reminds me of the decision Merkel made on immigration (also not hers to make), welcoming immigrants with open arms. That mistake blew up in her face in short order. What a pathetic EU and German response to Trump's demands! Note that a German-Russian compromise would not even pave the way for US trade talks. That's an EU-wide decision. Moreover, it's crystal clear that Trump like bilateral trade agreements, not multilateral ones. Finally, there is no reason to believe that Trump would not seek to renegotiate any deal down the road. Who Wins? Trump has gone bonkers. In the NAFTA dispute, he wants to set minimum wages in Mexico, but not the US; He reversed on ZTE (See ZTE Back From the Dead After Trump Reverses Sanctions), and now this. Regarding ZTE, Angry Bear had some interesting comments. "The whiplash that many observers have felt on learning of President Trump’s about-face on China’s ZTE telecom company from condemning it as violating US national security and violating sanctions rules by selling to North Korea and Iran has been pretty easily explained by our soon thereafter learning that China has provided a mere half a billion dollars to a project in Indonesia where Trump interests are deeply involved. This is probably the most blatant violation of the Emoluments Clause of the US constitution yet, but do not hold your breath that anything formal will come of it, despite widespread outrage. Rather his backers will accept that this is necessary for obtaining Chinese support in dealing with Kim Jong-In in the possible forthcoming summit. This is supposed to trump all other considerations. It is the hypocrisy that while Trump seems to be blithely forgiving ZTE for breaking already in-place sanctions against Iran, he and members of his administration such as John Bolton have been unyielding to the Europeans that all of their companies must cease any economic dealings with Iran ASAP now that Trump has scuttled US participation in the deal, even though it is widely accepted in Europe that Iran is in full compliance with the deal. The spectacle of the freshly arrived US ambassador issuing an immediate “order” to German companies to immediately comply with US demands on this has raised especial hackles." If you think Trump tactics will benefit the US, think again. Global trade wars will not benefit anyone. For further discussion, please consider What's Trump's Real Trade Target: China or Europe?
Parents in Nebraska have banded together in a group, Our Children Our School, to advocate on behalf of children who struggle in traditional learning environments and face the prospect that they may not graduate. These parents want more input in the education their children receive. “I feel it’s important for us to unify the voice of the parent,”Clarice Jackson, the parent who founded the group, told KETV. “I think parents have been speaking and they’ve been speaking in silos, so even though they’re being heard, the sound is not loud enough.” Read the story here.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo arrived in New York City yesterday for meetings with North Korean officials, including infamous spy chief Kim Yong Chol. The goal of the meetings, which spanned into today, was to renegotiate a potential summit in Singapore between U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean dictator Kim Jon Un. President Trump cancelled the summit last week after the North Korean regime threatened the United States with nuclear war and stopped answering phone calls about summit planning. Pompeo will hold a press briefing with reporters in New York Thursday afternoon, but took to Twitter over the past 24-hours to update Americans on the progress. Substantive talks with the team from #NorthKorea. We discussed our priorities for the potential summit between our leaders. pic.twitter.com/y5sMadd84v — Secretary Pompeo (@SecPompeo) May 31, 2018 Pleased to host the delegation from #NorthKorea. Meetings are underway. pic.twitter.com/KV4ITLnOfU — Secretary Pompeo (@SecPompeo) May 31, 2018 Welcoming back the delegation from #NorthKorea, led by Kim Yong Chol, to the second day of meetings in New York. pic.twitter.com/3CGmihqaat — Secretary Pompeo (@SecPompeo) May 31, 2018 The potential summit between @POTUS and Chairman Kim presents #DPRK with a great opportunity to achieve security and economic prosperity. The people of #NorthKorea can have a brighter future and the world can be more peaceful. — Secretary Pompeo (@SecPompeo) May 31, 2018 Good working dinner with Kim Yong Chol in New York tonight. Steak, corn, and cheese on the menu. pic.twitter.com/1pu4K3oym7 — Secretary Pompeo (@SecPompeo) May 31, 2018 President Trump also weighed in on the meetings Thursday morning. Very good meetings with North Korea. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018 A North Korean delegation will travel to Washington D.C. Thursday afternoon to deliver a letter from Kim Jong Un to President Trump.
The world’s deadliest race has claimed another life. Motorcycle racer Dan Kneen was killed on Wednesday during qualifying for the Isle of Man TT, an event consisting of several races held on public roads on the independent British island in the Irish Sea. The BMW rider died at the scene after crashing in the Churchtown section of the 37.7-mile course. Kneen was the 147th competitor to lose his life in the 111-year history of the event, and the 256th rider to die on the course, which is set up for two events each year. Three entrants died during the 2017 edition of the TT. The Isle of Man is a self-governing crown dependency of the U.K. Considered a tax haven, it is famous for having no speed limits on many of its winding roads. The 30-year-old Kneen lived on the island and finished third in the Superstock TT class last year. He was competing in the Superbike class this time around. A second rider, Steve Mercer, was critically injured on Wednesday after colliding with a course vehicle. The event is scheduled to run through June 8. FOLLOW FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE
Illinois workers whose fight against being forced to pay dues to a union they don’t want to join have an ally in an Ohio policy group. The Buckeye Institute last month filed what’s called an amicus brief with the U.S. Supreme Court in support of state of Illinois employee Mark Janus, who filed a federal lawsuit claiming his free speech rights were being violated by being forced to pay dues to a public employee union that he has no interest in being a part of. “Forcing employees to pay for speech with which they disagree is a violation of their First Amendment rights,” Robert Alt, president and CEO of The Buckeye Institute, said in a news release announcing the filing. “Neither Mr. Janus, nor anyone else, should ever be forced to pay fees to a union just to keep their jobs. Such compulsion is fundamentally unjust and unconstitutional.” National Right To Work Foundation represents the plaintiffs. Their case was struck down by the Illinois 7th Circuit Court of Appeals in March. They filed a petition in July asking the Supreme Court to hear the case. Foundation President Mark Mix said this is about compelled speech vs. free speech. Mix said what’s happened is there’s “a private institution in between taxpayers and elected officials and [the union] is able to speak for government employees that, heretofore, never asked for, never wanted, and in fact stand back and say, ‘I don’t want you to speak for me,’ as [plaintiffs] have said in this case,” Mix said. Janus is a child support specialist with the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services and, because of Illinois law, is forced to pay fees to the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, a government union, to keep his job.
SAN JOSE, Calif. — A Southwest Airlines jet made an emergency landing in California following reports that a passenger lit up a cigarette in a bathroom. Southwest says Flight 1250 from Los Angeles to San Francisco was diverted Wednesday. The plane landed safely at San Jose Mineta International Airport, about 50 miles south of San Francisco. The airline says the passenger accused of smoking was turned over to law enforcement. The remaining 32 passengers were placed on other aircraft to continue their trips.
Aston Martin has its first female president in the British luxury car maker’s 105-year history. Laura Schwab, head of Aston Martin the Americas, says her promotion signals a “pivotal moment in time for women” – not just in the auto industry, but all around the world, ABC News reports. This makes her one of only two women who hold senior leadership positions in the US’ male-dominated industry. While Aston Martin has 2,500 employees distributed around the globe, only a small percentage of those are women. However, Schwab – who regularly participates in female empowerment conferences – insists she is on a mission to change the existing demographic. “I am desperate for more women to apply for jobs in automotive,” she tells ABC News. “For some women it’s scary…they might not think they know that much about cars or that much about technology. I am a very firm advocate of more women applying for these roles.” After 15 years at Jaguar Land Rover, Schwab was poached by Aston Martin in October 2015 to helm its Americas operations. Then, five weeks after accepting the president position she found out she was pregnant. While she admits she was nervous to tell Andy Palmer, the company’s CEO who hired her, she praises the workplace as being “super supportive” throughout the entire pregnancy. Now, with a one-year-old daughter, she concedes that she still gets “how do you do it” a lot – and her response is always the same: “When was the last time you asked a man that question?” She adds she is willing to spend weekends and nights away from her toddler daughter in order to convince young women that a career in the auto-industry could be gratifying and highly rewarding. “It’s a very pivotal moment in time for women, not just in the automotive space, but in the world,” she said. “A lot of barriers, or perceived barriers, have started to be removed. I think in automotive, specifically, we’ve still got a job to do. I never thought of myself as a role model but now that I am in this role, women are looking to me and saying, ‘I can do it.’ And if I can play a small part in encouraging women that automotive is a wonderful place to work and an inspiring and exciting place, then I’ll take on that role for sure.”
see also Belgium terror attack leaves two cops dead A prison inmate on an extremist watchlist was given a... The prison inmate who murdered two police officers and a bystander in Belgium while on a two-day prison furlough was a “soldier of [ISIS’s] caliphate,” the terror group claimed on Wednesday. ISIS’s Aamaq news agency said Benjamin Herman’s attack in Liège was an answer to its calls asking followers to target countries fighting against them. Before Tuesday’s attack, Herman, who was gunned down by police, also killed a man with whom he had done time in prison by bashing his head in with a hammer.
After the market collapsed in 2008, stress killed people according to research by the Economic Policy Institute. We’ve long known that a financial shock causes immediate distress. Suit-clad men leaping from buildings were dismal hallmarks of the Great Depression, and soon after a major recession began in 2007, there were notable spikes in clinical depression, substance abuse and suicides... Loss of control was front and center for the 26% of those in the survey who had endured a wealth shock. They were 50% more likely to have died during the period of the study, compared with participants whose savings remained intact. The researchers statistically controlled for other causes of mortality, such as ill health, job loss, insurance loss and marital breakdown. Interestingly, women were more likely to have experienced a wealth shock than men, but they were not more likely to die as a result. They were, in short, more financially vulnerable but more resilient physiologically. A few years ago the Wall Street Journal ran a story on the impact of the market collapse on money managers. Most (93%) suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, the same problem that afflicts soldiers who have experienced combat. The market will crash again. No one knows when but it’s as certain as taxes and the longer the current bull lasts the more likely his turning into a bear becomes and the uglier he will be. So what can investors do to prepare for the bear? 1. Reallocate. The greatest investor of all time and Warren Buffet’s mentor, Benjamin Graham, suggested flipping one’s allocation between stocks and bonds from 70% stocks and 30% bonds to about a 30/70 ratio when the bull is long in the tooth and riding record highs. One’s cash bucket should be full as well. 2. Be humble. Expect losses. Those who suffer the most from a bear attack are the Type-A personalities who are arrogant enough to think they control their destinies. 3. Give some money away. Giving to charities helps to keep wealth from controlling you by shrinking its importance. 4. Watch CNBC’s series “American Greed.” Most of the people who lose their life savings to con men are retirees who have made a little money in their careers but are greedy for more. That makes them perfect targets for con men offering ridiculous returns on investments. The stock market is not a con game or a gamble; the point is that the same mentality that makes the stars of American Greed suckers for con men also makes investors in the market arrogant and put all of their life savings into hot stocks that melt down. Investing doesn’t have to be deadly, but the wrong attitude can make it so.
Drake is financially supporting the former French porn star who claims the Toronto rapper is the father of her child, a new report says. Drake has been paying money to Sophie Brussaux and alleged son Adonis since before the baby was born, TMZ reported Thursday. The rumors surrounding Drake’s potential child was ignited earlier this week when Pusha T released a diss track calling Drake a “deadbeat” father on the song “The Story of Adidion.” “Adonis is your son. And he deserves more than an Adidas press run, that’s real. Love that baby, respect that girl. Forget she’s a porn star, let her be your world,” King Push raps. #throwback 😚 A post shared by Sophie Brussaux (@sophiebrussaux) on Apr 18, 2018 at 5:48am PDT Drake was first linked with Brussaux in January 2017, according to Page Six. Months later, she claimed that she was pregnant with Drake’s child and was suing him for child support. A representative for Drake had denied the claim. “This woman has a very questionable background. She has admitted to having multiple relationships. We understand she may have problems getting into the United States,” the rep told TMZ. “She’s one of many women claiming he got them pregnant. If it is in fact Drake’s child, which he does not believe, he would do the right thing by the child.” Drake has yet to speak on the allegations that he’s the child’s father. He only addressed the photo that Pusha T used as his cover art for his freestyle track.
NEW YORK (AP) — Comedian Samantha Bee apologized to Ivanka Trump and viewers on Thursday for using an obscenity to describe the president's daughter, an incident that quickly thrust her into the middle of the nation's political divide. Her network, TBS, also said it was "our mistake, too," in allowing the language on Bee's show, "Full Frontal," on Wednesday. Her show is taped and not aired live. Bee called Ivanka Trump a "feckless c---" toward the end of a segment about President Trump's immigration policies. She used the slur in urging Ivanka Trump to speak to her father about policies that separate children from their parents. "Put on something tight and low-cut and tell your father to f---ing stop it," she said. Bee, a former correspondent on "The Daily Show" with Jon Stewart whose own show has been one of TBS' big successes since it started in 2016, said that her language was "inappropriate and inexcusable. "I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it," she said. Before the apology, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders called Bee's language "vile and vicious" and said executives at TBS and corporate parent Time Warner needed to demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of the administration would not be condoned. TBS said Bee had taken the right step in apologizing. The network made no mention of any disciplinary action. The car company Autotrader said that it would pull its advertising sponsorship from "Full Frontal," calling Bee's language offensive and unacceptable. Bee's show is being honored Thursday by the Television Academy as one of the most "meaningful and relevant" on the air; the academy said the controversy over her language won't change that. The academy said its event is "non-political" and that Bee's recognition is for "her engagement in 2017 on the subject of sexual harassment and the #MeToo movement." Coming two days after ABC canceled "Roseanne" following a racist tweet about former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett, Bee's remark was immediately seized upon by culture warriors. Some conservatives upset about the "Roseanne" cancellation suggested Bee should meet the same fate, while liberals wondered whether Bee's words were any worse than some used by President Trump, notably in the "Access Hollywood" tape. "I dream of a life where we hold our president to a higher standard than we hold comedians," said another comic, Marie Connor, on Twitter. Ari Fleischer, former press secretary to President George W. Bush, said there was a double standard when you compare media reaction to Barr and Bee. He said the media would go "nuts" if a conservative Republican used the same slur that was used by Bee against Nancy Pelosi. "The outrage would be instant and overwhelming," Fleischer said online. Liberal filmmaker Michael Moore noted that President Trump and his aides had not condemned Barr's racism and tried to "confuse the issue by going after Samantha Bee's brilliant rant against Ivanka." Bee's commentary had the potential to be a corporate headache. Time Warner, which owns channels including TBS, CNN and HBO, is in the process of being acquired by AT&T for $85 billion. The Justice Department has sued to block the deal, however, due to monopoly concerns, and a decision on whether or not it will proceed is expected June 12. One of the sharpest attacks against Bee came on corporate cousin CNN. Bee is no better than the behavior she sought to criticize in her immigration segment, said CNN anchor Brooke Baldwin. "To use that word from a woman to another woman is offensive," Baldwin said. "Wrong is wrong, whether you're on the left or the right." ___ Associated Press writer Mae Anderson contributed to this report.
Punk band NOFX is facing backlash after joking about those killed during the October 1, 2017, Las Vegas attack, saying, “At least they were country fans and no punk rock fans.” NOFX band members made the comments while on stage during the Las Vegas Punk Rock Bowling & Music Festival. People reports that NOFX frontman Fat Mike said, “We played a song about Muslims and we didn’t get shot. Hooray.” Another band member responded, “I guess you only get shot in Vegas if you are in a country band.” Another band member then said, “That [massacre] sucked, but at least they were country fans and no punk rock fans.” He tried to bring levity to moment by adding, “You were all thinking it.” Las Vegas morning show hosts Dave and Mahoney tweeted their disgust over the comments and pledged to never work with NOFX again: NOFX thought it would be "hilarious" to joke about the October 1 shootings while on stage in Las Vegas. They said "at least they were country fans and not punk rock fans". This is disgusting and callous. We will never support anything involving this band ever again. pic.twitter.com/am3R8QJIE6 — Dave and Mahoney (@DaveAndMahoney) May 30, 2018 Additionally, The Blast reports Stone Brewing company –festival sponsor and makers of NOFX’s beer — announced they “are cutting all ties with NOFX.” A Stone Brewing spokesperson said, “We at Stone Brewing are aware of NOFX’s insensitive and indefensible statements this past weekend. As a result, we are severing all our ties with NOFX, including festival sponsorship and the production of our collaboration beer.” AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.
A sweet moment was caught on video showing a young boy in Georgia lend a helping hand to an older woman trying to get up a set of stairs. The 8-year-old boy, Maurice Adams Jr., noticed the elderly lady making her way across the street by herself while he was riding in the car on the way back from a high school graduation with his family, WSB-TV reported Wednesday. SOUTH CAROLINA COP BUYS HOMELESS MAN ‘ASKING FOR SCRAPS’ A MEAL AFTER RESPONDING TO 911 CALL "He asked, 'Can I go out there and help her up the steps?’” Contricia Hill, the boy’s mom, told the outlet. Adams Jr. went to the woman’s aid, seen in the video helping her up a set of outdoor steps as she attempted to maneuver her walker. The pair appeared to take each step one-by-one, as the boy held onto her back. When they reached the top, the pair hugged before the 8-year-old dashed back to the car. 9-YEAR-OLD RAISES $6G IN LEMONADE FUNDRAISER FOR BABY BROTHER BATTLING RARE ILLNESS The elderly woman, whose identity remained a mystery, “told him that he’s special,” Hill told WSB-TV. Adams Jr.’s mom was unaware that her son’s good deed, which was reportedly caught on camera by an onlooker, was recorded, according to the outlet. "It's touching. It's very touching," Hill told WSB-TV. "(It just shows) respect and raising your kids right goes a long way."
Ever wonder why Bryant Park and Union Square are junkie-free but not always Washington Square Park? That’s because New York University, which owns most of the buildings surrounding the park, has a love/hate relationship with the community. In the early 1980s, junkies and the homeless were splayed all over and sandboxes were filled with cigarette butts, glass and worse. Today, things have changed — but not by much. As The Post recently reported, crackpipes are now busting out all over. Yet the similarly (and maybe worse back then) junkie-infested Union Square Park and Bryant Park are now infested with millennials and food markets. The other city parks were able to clean up their acts because the business and real estate communities were so appalled at the state of the city that they banded together, and with the blessing of Mayor Rudy Giuliani and City Council legislation, they formed Business Improvement Districts. When the city wanted to renovate Washington Square Park in 2005, neighbors filed lawsuits and held up the redesign for several years. After it was completed in 2009, the Coalition for a Better Washington Square Park wanted to hire additional security officers to keep drug addicts out, but the city nixed that proposal. Rather than a BID, which would involve ongoing support from the adjacent property owners — read NYU — the neighborhood formed The Washington Square Park Conservancy. With a 2015 budget of $265,000, it supports the City’s Parks Dept. by providing some horticulture, maintenance and grants to support cultural programs — not security — although it works closely with the local NYPD precinct. NYU, with an overall school endowment in 2017 of $4.1 billion, made a one-time $500,000 contribution, said Dr. Gil Horowitz, a retired NYU professor and neighborhood activist. “We think they could give a lot more,” he confided to The Post. NYU does contribute “generously” to the free park concerts, but Horowitz added, “We don’t want them getting too much control. We welcome their help as long as it doesn’t come with, it’s their park.” Horowitz praised the Conservancy’s executive director, George Vellonakis, who designed the park. “He is doing a credible job at keeping the park safe, clean and green,” Horowitz said. And Horowitz, who is in the park almost daily, says that while drug dealers had been defiant, with police cameras everywhere, they now stick to their corners. “You don’t see them shouting, ‘coke,’ just ‘smoke,'” he explained.
Just a week after the Pentagon disinvited China from military exercises because of its “militarization” of the South China Sea area, the Communist country announced the carrier group led by its first aircraft carrier had reached "initial systematic combat capability." The aircraft carrier, the Liaoning, is a refurbished Soviet-era aircraft carrier purchased from Ukraine that went through eight years of retrofitting, according to China Global Television Network. It is the latest show of military muscle by the country, which has ignored the U.S.’ pleas to leave the disputed islands on the South China Sea alone. Since the Liaoning was commissioned in 2012, it has gone through exercises that have "effectively tested the building and maintenance of the formation's comprehensive attack and defense systems," China's National Defense Ministry spokesperson Ren Guoqiang told state television. The ship is conventionally powered by steam turbines, according to CGTN, and is capable of carrying different types of aircraft, including the J-15 fighters, as well as surveillance and anti-submarine helicopters. Military officials told state television it is also carries anti-air missiles and anti-torpedo systems. The Liaoning has been part of high-profile missions recently, including sailing into the South China Sea area. “The carrier group’s exercises have been deepened to include combat operations in the open seas. It has initially formed a system combat capability,” Ren said in a monthly news briefing, according to Reuters. CHINA'S FIRST DOMESTICALLY-MADE AIRCRAFT CARRIER BEGINS SEA TRIALS Little is known about China’s aircraft program which is a state secret, but the country recently began sea trials of its first domestically-produced aircraft carrier that has yet to be named. Chinese military experts have told state media the new carrier, built in the northeastern port of Dalian, is not expected to enter service until 2020, once it has been fully fitted and armed. The new carrier is based on the former Soviet Union's Kuznetsov class design, with a ski jump-style deck for taking off and a conventional oil-fueled steam turbine power plant. State media has reported China is also planning to build a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier capable of remaining at sea for long durations. China has the world’s largest navy in terms of numbers of ships, although it lags behind the U.S. in technology and combat capabilities. The country has used its naval fleet to stake claim to virtually the entire South China Sea and to range farther into the Pacific and Indian oceans – a provocative move that has heightened tensions with the U.S. Last Wednesday, the Pentagon said it was disinviting China from the Rim of the Pacific Exercises following reports the country was again secretly beefing up its military operation. Earlier this week, China's military blasted the U.S. after two U.S. Navy warships sailed near South China Sea islands claimed by China after Beijing landed a nuclear-capable bomber and deployed missiles there. Wu Qian, spokesperson Ministry of National Defense, said the "provocative action" was a "serious infringement" on China's sovereignty. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
The Summer movie blockbuster season is here. One thing that can be unfortunately counted on: you will not see a lot of films with patriotic views on American history being offered. There’s a reason for that. There is a new and disturbing fact about an issue The New York Analysis of Policy and Government has previously reported on. We have noted that China’s influence over Hollywood continues to grow, and it is neither paranoid nor inappropriate to examine what this means for the independence of America’s signature art form, and whether this is leading to a pandering by movie personnel, both in the boardrooms and in front of the cameras, to foreign interests. The Wall Street Journal reports, “Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent consolidation of power has placed China’s film division under the Communist Party’s Ministry of Propaganda. […] Until March, China’s film bureau had been part of a government agency independent of the party, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, whose job was to regulate content, including censoring films and scheduling theatrical releases. President Xi’s decision to place film operations under party control, coming just before the all-important summer movie season, adds a new layer of uncertainty for studios already struggling to adhere to China’s complicated, fast-changing rules. In his rise to power, President Xi has understood the power of cinema, whether he is encouraging citizens to move to cities with shiny new theaters or blocking American films containing objectionable themes. The reorganization appears to formally acknowledge the role of film as a tool that must be managed by the party.” China is far more sophisticated than the old Soviet Union, or even Vladimir Putin’s Russia, in its bid to expand its influence and gain a domineering presence across the planet. While the USSR and today’s Russia lean heavily on military strength, Beijing’s rulers fully understand the concept of “soft power,” and that includes the extraordinary role that movies play in shaping the opinions and perspectives of people across the planet. This applies particularly to the United States, where movies retain a key role in popular culture. Hollywood moguls, never known for their moral standards, will now pander even further to Chinese censors for two main reasons. First, they do not wish to offend a potential big-bucks investor in their industry. Chinese companies have invested $4.5 billion in Hollywood assets. Second, the lure of selling tickets to China’s billion-plus citizens inhibits them from producing films that Beijing censors will keep out of the world’s most populous nation. Business Insider notes that, “Hollywood studio productions will […] increasingly be made by China—or rather, by Chinese companies investing in Hollywood.” An NBC Today review notes that “If you got [sic] to a movie theater right now, there’s a pretty good chance that the film you see will have been partially financed in China.” Correspondent Ronan Farrow outlined how that influences the scripts of the movies Americans watch. To understand how China’s investment provides influence for the Beijing government, it must be understood that Chinese companies are subservient to and work diligently for China’s foreign policy. That, however, is only part of the story. The appetite for films in China’s largest-in-the world population is vast, and even those Hollywood studies not financially dependent on China have a significant financial interest in producing movies that appeal to their worldview, even if that is detrimental to American interests. Politico provides another example of the interrelationship between Chinese companies buying major stakes in Hollywood and Beijing’s political goals. Dalian Wanda is a Chinese firm that has intimate ties to the Chinese Communist Party, and it is intent on making major purchases of Hollywood assets. Politico asks, “For American moviegoers, the peril lies in the unseen. Would a war movie called South China Sea ever play in one of Wanda’s theaters? What about an action flick with a Chinese villain? […] When you control the movie experience, you can subtly influence public opinion. And the Chinese government — Wanda’s staunch supporter — has been transparent about that goal. The Communist Party has banned or currently bans thousands of books deemed controversial. It heavily censors the Internet, while Facebook and Twitter remain prohibited in China — one of the reasons Freedom House ranked it a more restrictive society than Iran and Saudi Arabia.” Frank Vernuccio serves as editor-in-chief of the New York Analysis of Policy & Government.
U.S. Ambassador to Israel David Friedman says that Republicans are more pro-Israel than Democrats — and that Democrats need to do something about it. Friedman made his comments Wednesday in an interview with the Times of Israel: “It’s very disturbing to me. Israel should never be a partisan issue. Everybody, on both sides, says that Israel should be a bipartisan issue. I am going to continue to work as hard as I can to keep it bipartisan,” Friedman began. “But bipartisan does not mean finding the lowest common denominator and pursuing that just in a blind effort to find consensus,” he continued. “The argument that I hear from some Democrats that Republicans are seizing the pro-Israel mantle is true, to a certain extent. There’s no question Republicans support Israel more than Democrats.” Elaborated Friedman: “Just because you want to make something bipartisan doesn’t mean that it becomes bipartisan… Democrats can say, ‘We want to be bipartisan on Israel,’ and I wish them every success in doing so. But there is a large Democratic constituency right now that is not pro-Israel. They have to acknowledge it, and they have to fix it, or try to fix it.” Friedman was speaking in the midst of an effort by some Democrats to claim that they had been excluded from the opening of the new U.S. embassy in Jerusalem, Israel, on May 14. As Breitbart News reported at the time, not one elected Democrat made the trip to Jerusalem to attend the embassy opening. This week, several Democrats co-signed a letter to the ambassador by Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), the ranking member of the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs, complaining about the impression that “Democrats chose not to participate.” They complained that they had “received no invitation from the White House to participate in the official delegation to visit Jerusalem for this moment of historic occasion,” and claimed: “We take a back seat to no one in support of the U.S.-Israel relationship.” However, Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), who led the congressional delegation to the event, told Breitbart News’ Aaron Klein on Wednesday that he had personally invited Democrats to attend the embassy opening, and that none agreed to come. He pointed out that no members of Congress had been invited by the White House to attend, but noted that he had personally called Democrats and asked them to join his delegation. All found an excuse not to attend. In addition, an administration source indicated to Breitbart News that Rep. Engel had been invited to help lead the congressional delegation (CODEL), but refused. (Rep. Engel’s office declined to comment to Breitbart News for this story.) Moreover, no Democrats attended the May 14 party at the Israeli embassy in Washington, D.C. to celebrate the opening of the U.S. embassy in Jerusalem. All members of Congress had been invited. On Thursday, the Republican Jewish Coalition (RJC) called on the Democrats who signed the letter to withdraw it. In a press statement, the RJC said: Rep. Engel and the other signatories to that letter – who declined specific invitations to join the CODEL to Jerusalem – had the nerve to write that they “would deeply regret if the government of Israel was left with the impression that Democratic lawmakers chose not to attend the event.” What a shameful act of chutzpah. They stooped very low to undermine this historic event and to embarrass Amb. David Friedman, who is serving ably to represent the United States in Israel. Democrats waved the Palestinian flag and held pro-Palestinian signs at the Democratic National Convention in 2016. In contrast, U.S. flags were not prominently displayed until media coverage and criticism from then-candidate Donald Trump prompted party officials to ensure the American flag was seen. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.
Dismissing prayer is a tragically seamless task for those who have never experienced its powerful ability to sustain – and transform – the heart and soul. But as the “thoughts and prayers” debate continues – especially in the wake of the horrific high school shooting in Santa Fe, Texas that killed 10 students and teachers and left 10 wounded – there are millions of people across the globe who would testify to the definitive power of prayer. In fact, I’ve spent my career in media talking with people who have relied on God to overcome and cope with unimaginable pain and suffering. From overt miracles to simple stories of God’s love showing up just at the right time, their experiences have moved me. On Friday, I wrote an opinion piece for Fox News that responded to the harsh rhetoric that critics often spew when they see people offering “thoughts and prayers” after tragedies like the shooting at Santa Fe High School. The reaction to my claims was swift, with critics hitting back that there is no “evidence” for God and that I belong in a “straitjacket” for suggesting that God can comfort us in our greatest times of need. I didn’t engage many of these people, but the entire spectacle really got me thinking about how prayer has manifested itself in my own life. I’ve certainly felt prayer work throughout various events and relationships during my 34 years. One of the clearest examples of God responding to my prayers came last year when our family suffered the loss of my wife’s grandmother, Mary DeNardo, who we all called Nana. Nana was diagnosed with cancer just weeks before her death on May 19, 2017. Despite being 90 years old, she was in good health up until then, so the diagnosis took our family by surprise. She was one of those larger-than-life personalities – a woman whose love and devotion to her family was unmatched. She wasn’t my blood relative, but was, hands down, one of my favorite people. She was supportive, loving and a source of life advice. We shared similar worldviews, often bonding over discussions about faith and current events. My wife and I prayed endlessly for her healing after the diagnosis, hoping and praying for a miracle and for more time with her. In the end, our prayers weren’t granted in the way we had wished, but it quickly became evident that God was listening. As I reflected upon “thoughts and prayers” this past week and publicly spoke about the power of invoking God, I remembered the stunning ways in which he showed up last year amid my own pain and sadness. I’ll never forget visiting Nana in the hospital just a week before her death. My parents sent a bouquet of flowers to try and cheer her up for Mother’s Day, so I brought them to her. With things looking grim, Nana looked exhausted and scared. She told me she was worried about what would happen and asked me to pray with her. Then she said something that I’ll never forget: “I just pray that God sends his angels to protect me.” In that moment I didn’t think much of what she had said, but I prayed with her, imploring God to be with her and to sustain her during such a difficult and uncertain time. After we prayed, we talked about Jesus and Nana thanked me. Then, I walked over to the flower bouquet that my parents sent. I opened a small, white envelope that accompanied it and started to read their note to Nana. I was floored as I read the note aloud: “We love you Nana. Get well and happy Mother’s Day. May the Lord Jesus touch you with his glorious love and power. May his angels camp around you (Psalm 34:7) and protect you.” Nana had just openly prayed that God would send his angels for protection, and here was a note that almost word-for-word encapsulated her plea. “Nana, can you believe it?” I said, explaining the amazing irony that seemed much grander than a coincidence. Those words granted her comfort and I was so moved that I continue to cherish that tiny card. As the days wore on, Nana received hospice care at her home. Soon, she slipped into a deep sleep. Our family continued to pray for a miraculous healing, God’s mercy and, above all else, peace. While we held out for a miracle, reality had set in. What happened next, though, solidified my belief that there’s truly a God who loves us, who listens and who sometimes gives us small signs that can deeply comfort us. I remember going to Nana’s house on May 17 to say goodbye; I had to travel for work that week and was unsure of what would happen in my absence. As I sat next to Nana’s bed, I prayed, and spoke to her, hoping she could hear me. I thanked her for everything she had done for us, for the love and support she had given to us – and I told her how much she truly meant to me. It was an overwhelming but necessary experience, as I thought about what life would be like without her and I asked God to give her peace – the same peace she had asked for as she lay in the hospital bed just days earlier. Then, I turned to my right and saw something that almost took my breath away: two pictures of angels guiding children across a bridge were on Nana’s bedroom wall, facing her bed. The images were more than familiar; they had been hanging in my parents’ house when I was a kid. Years earlier, my mom asked me if we wanted the images. My wife and I didn’t really have a place for them and, frankly, weren’t big fans. But we took them and ended up giving the plaques to Nana, though she never mentioned what she did with them. At some point, she had apparently hung them on her bedroom wall. As I glanced at the pictures, I felt an overwhelming peace. Tears streamed down my face as I remembered that Nana’s wish was for God’s angels to surround her and I knew in that moment that God was granting her the peace we had so desperately sought. That imagery of the angels guiding God’s children across the bridge left me with a deep solace. We lost Nana two days later on May 19, 2017. It wasn’t the conclusion to her story that any of us wanted, but prayer sustained us, it comforted her, and it gave my wife and I the peace we needed to move forward. It’s a small example, but one that shows the depths of God’s love for us. Today, those pictures of the angels are now hanging in our house as a reminder of God’s love – and of the power of prayer in our lives. God’s there for us, even in our times of suffering; all we have to do is ask.
“Full Frontal” host Samantha Bee apologized Thursday after she used an extreme vulgarity to slam Ivanka Trump in her monologue on Wednesday over a photograph the first daughter shared on social media, calling her a “feckless c---. The apology came a day after Bee used the slur on her TBS show, shocking viewers and critics alike. "I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night," Bee said in a statment. "It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it." TBS also issued an apology shortly after Bee's tweet: "Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night. Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it." Ivanka Trump was criticized by several celebrities this week for a snap she shared of her hugging her son amid reports the Office of Refugee Resettlement lost track of 1,500 immigrant children in the last three months of 2017. “Ivanka Trump, who works at the White House, chose to post the second most oblivious tweet we’ve seen this week,” Bee said, citing Roseanne Barr's racist tweet as the first. IVANKA TRUMP’S PHOTO WITH SON SLAMMED BY CELEBRITIES “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices you feckless c---! "He listens to you! Put on something tight and low cut and tell your father to f---ing stop it. Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes," she concluded. The clip of Bee’s monologue was uploaded to her YouTube channel where the words "c---" and "f---" were not censored. Bee’s show, “Full Frontal,” airs weekly on Wednesdays on TBS, an asset of Turner Broadcasting System which also owns CNN, TNT and HLN. Bee is due to receive a special honor from the Television Academy on Thursday for "advancing social change" for her work on the show. The host’s comments were criticized by social media users with some calling for her show to be canceled. “If this statement had been addressed to a child of a former president, Samantha Bee would be out of a job,” one social media user wrote. “Roseanne deserved to get fired for her comment. Samantha Bee called Ivanka a 'c---' on air and Keith Olbermann routinely calls the President a 'motherf---er.' Do you think either will get fired? Maybe see why so many Americans think there’s a media double-standard for liberals,” another tweeted. Dan Gainor, the vice president of business and culture for Media Research Center, told Fox News that the media was not covering Bee’s “hateful comments.” “Immediately after the media correctly criticized Roseanne Barr for a racist statement, Samantha Bee tries to outdo her by calling Ivanka Trump the 'C' word. Imagine if a conservative did this to Chelsea Clinton or to the Obama daughters. We'd never hear the end of it,” Gainor told Fox News. “Today media are freaking out about an incorrect [President] Trump tweet saying ABC never apologized for Brian Ross's incompetent reporting that tanked the stock market," he said. "They aren't covering Samantha Bee at all. They would rather protect a discredited journalist than address the insane and hateful comments that come from one of their favorite TV people. ABC set the media-approved standard this week for misbehavior. When someone does something this disgusting, their show is canceled.”
House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy, who announced his upcoming retirement earlier this year, is pushing back against President Trump's assertions there was a spy placed inside his 2016 campaign in an effort to target him. Further, he's defending the FBI's use of an informant on the campaign and says they were doing their job. "Donald Trump was never the target of the investigation, he isn't the current target of the investigation," Gowdy said during an interview with Fox News Tuesday evening. "I am even more convinced the FBI did exactly what my fellow citizens would want them to do when they got the information they got and that it has nothing to do with Donald Trump." "I think when the President finds out what happened he's going to be not just fine, he's going to be glad we have an FBI that took seriously what they heard. He was never the target, Russia was the target," Gowdy said. Watch the latest video at foxnews.com During another interview with CBS Wednesday morning, Gowdy was asked about President Trump's use of the word "spy." "That's not a term I ever used in the criminal justice system. Undercover, informant, confidential information, those are all words I'm familiar with. I've never heard the term 'spy' used," Gowdy said. "That's an espionage term not a law enforcement term." "I’ve never heard the term ‘spy’ used. I have not (seen any evidence of that). Informants are used all day, every day by law enforcement." @TGowdySC on @CBSThisMorning pic.twitter.com/jcIiaG8CiB — Norah O'Donnell???? (@NorahODonnell) May 30, 2018 Revelations of a spy in the Trump campaign came after the New York Times published a lengthy story detailing the work of an FBI information during the 2016 presidential election.
NEW YORK — Michael Lucas, a gay pornographic film actor and director, is calling out what he says is “hypocrisy” and a “double standard” in the entertainment industry. Lucas charged “two sets of rules” are being evidenced by the swift firing of Roseanne Barr over racist remarks while NBC has remained silent in the face of liberal MSNBC host Joy Reid’s alleged and admitted anti-gay comments as well as significant questions about Reid’s claim that her controversial blog was hacked. Speaking to Breitbart News in an interview, Lucas labeled Reid a “lying homophobe.” Lucas is founder and CEO of Lucas Entertainment, New York’s largest gay adult film company and one of the biggest gay porn production companies in the world. “Roseanne was fired swiftly for her disgusting, racist comments so why wasn’t Joy Reid when she made her disgusting, homophobic comments?” asked Lucas. “I think the answer is simple: Roseanne Barr is an outspoken Trump supporter, while Joy is an influential left-wing political commentator with a huge following.” Lucas contended that “you can get away with homophobia as long as you are a liberal propagandist with a big mouth.” “Let’s see if she will be fired now after it turned out that just like Barr, she was spreading a conspiracy theory that it was the U.S. government and not al-Qaeda that was behind the 9/11 attacks. I would not be surprised if she weasels her way out of this situation. After all, she was saying that it was the Republican Bush administration that killed 2,996 of its own people.” Lucas was referring to a BuzzFeed report finding that Reid’s old blog promoted a 9/11 truther conspiracy movie that makes the unhinged claim that the U.S. government was behind the September 11, 2001 mass Islamic terrorist attacks. Reid’s blog postings also included statements raising suspicions about the U.S. government’s role in 9/11. “I wonder if she would have spread this propaganda about 9/11 if a Democrat were in the Oval Office?” asked Lucas. “Reid is basically helping al-Qaida by raising these insane conspiracies.” Regarding MSNBC’s silence, Lucas argued that “there is a double standard for lying homophobe Joy Reid.” Reid is facing renewed scrutiny after her 9/11 conspiracy blog postings were unearthed and amid the quick firing of Barr over the star’s racist Twitter comments. BuzzFeed found that Reid’s old blog linked to the 9/11 truther video “Loose Change 9/11.” Alongside the film promotion, the blog reads: “The fundamental question is: do you believe the official story of 9/11? If you do, great. If you don’t, then everything that happened after that is called into serious question. Even if you’re agnostic, or you tend to believe that al-Qaida attacked the World Trade Center and Pentagon and that the government had no warning such a thing could happen, it’s worth taking a second look.” A second post alleges that U.S. officials identified the al-Qaida attack plotters “suspiciously soon.” “For that matter, why did any of the WTV [sic] buildings fall…?” the blog continues. “Somehow I think it will be a generation before we get the full story on what happened on 9/11.” After more questions were raised about her old blog last month, Reid took to her MSNBC show to offer an on-air apology to the LGBT community for some of her past comments, but she continued to suggest that not all remarks posted on the archives of her old blog, The Reid Report, were really written by her. “Here’s what I know, I genuinely do not believe I wrote those hateful things because they are completely alien to me, but I can definitely understand based on things I have tweeted and I have written in the past why some people don’t believe me,” Reid announced on her AM Joy show. “I have not been exempt from being dumb or cruel or hurtful to the very people I want to advocate for. I own that. I get it. And for that I am truly, truly sorry.” Much of the controversy centers on blog posts from over a decade ago which contain anti-gay remarks. Last year, Reid admitted to writing anti-gay comments about then-Florida Gov. Charlie Crist, but when new anti-gay remarks surfaced last week she brought out a cyber expert to suggest that her blog had been hacked. Some of the alleged posts contain phraseology critical of gay marriage and claim gay men go after “impressionable teens.” The posts also suggest in a derogatory manner that Tom Cruise, Karl Rove and the son of Chief Justice John Roberts are all gay. “Most straight people cringe at the sight of two men kissing,” reads another post. “The nature of political correctness is that gay people are allowed to say straight sex is gross but the reverse is considered to be patently homophobic.” While Reid disputes the authenticity of those posts — and her storyline alleging a hack has been widely questioned by the news media — she did admit in December 2017 to the other blatantly anti-gay posts. Reid mockingly claimed with no evidence that then-Florida Gov. Charlie Crist was secretly a gay man who married his wife so that he could run for president. Reid referred to Crist as “Miss Charlie.” “I can just see poor Charlie on the honeymoon, ogling the male waiters and thinking to himself, ‘God, do I actually have to see her naked?’” Reid wrote on her blog. Reid in December 2017 stated, “I regret the way I addressed the complex issue of the closet and speculation on a person’s sexual orientation with a mocking tone and sarcasm.” “It was insensitive, tone-deaf and dumb,” she added at the time. “There is no excusing it — not based on the taste-skewing mores of talk radio or the then-blogosphere, and not based on my intentions.” A Daily Beast investigation found Reid’s hacking claim to be not credible. “Claims by Joy Reid’s Cybersecurity Expert Fall Apart” was the title of a Beast investigative report. “The Daily Beast investigated the MSNBC host’s claims that someone hacked her old blogs to make her appear homophobic and found that the evidence provided crumbles under scrutiny,” the Beast reported. Writing at CNN.com, media reporter Tom Kludt maintained that “Reid’s hacking claims don’t add up.” Kludt reported: Reid’s claim rests on the idea that a hacker was tampering with her blog not years after the fact, but contemporaneously — sometimes within days or even hours of the events that were the subject of the posts — and that she never noticed. … A review of an archived version of the blog through the Library of Congress casts serious doubt on whether that material was indeed fraudulent, at least assuming that the archived version was itself not hacked, and Reid’s team says it is not claiming that. Kludt concluded that Reid’s hacking claims “require a belief in several shifting and sometimes contradictory arguments — despite evidence offered to the contrary by outlets like The Daily Beast — and a belief that Reid was completely unaware of something going on right under her nose.” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.
Roseanne Barr's fall from television grace thanks to her racially charged tweet about Valerie Jarrett on Monday has many audiences wondering why Bill Maher still has a primetime platform. The HBO host, after all, has a history of his own controversial and racial remarks. The difference between the two comedians, conservative critics charge, is that Maher is a liberal. Wait, Bill Maher makes comparisons to Trump being a gorilla all the time? They get classified as "jokes" by the media and he is of course allowed to keep his show and not have his life ruined The difference? Bill Maher is a liberal, Roseanne is a free-thinking Trump supporter — Charlie Kirk (@charliekirk11) May 29, 2018 Roseanne compared Jarrett, a former President Obama aide, to an ape this week and got soundly punished for it. ABC canceled her popular TV reboot and her old costars distanced themselves from her "abhorrent" remarks. Maher, meanwhile, has compared President Trump to an orangutan, which found him on the end of a lawsuit, and used the phrase "house n****" on his HBO program last year. The network apologized and edited the phrase out of his show, but he kept his job. Some say that did not suffice. Yet, as other conservatives noted, Maher is one of few liberal celebrities who has defended the free speech of all ideologies. I’m not gonna take part in a purge of Bill Maher. I don’t agree with many of his views, and don’t even have HBO. But he’s one of the few people on the Left willing to share a country with dissenting views. So it’s myopically stupid to turn on him. We need more of him, actually. — Steve Deace (@SteveDeaceShow) May 30, 2018 Maher routinely invites conservatives on his show and has even lectured the media on its record of faux outrage. Of course, none of this justifies his own controversial comments. Others are wondering why "View" co-host Joy Behar still has a job. Remember when Joy Behar referred to homeschooled children as “demented” while on air? While @ABCNetwork is in the process of terminating contracts, perhaps they can find Joy Behar’s. pic.twitter.com/UAgGBO43lk — Kyle Morris (@RealKyleMorris) May 29, 2018 What do you think? Do the crimes fit the punishment (or non-punishment) for these comedians?
Iowa City lost more than its star high school volleyball player when they lost Caroline Found. The 17-year-old, who died in a freak moped accident in 2011, was the heart and soul of the community and led her teammates at Iowa City West High School to the state championship title in 2010. Somehow, with the heart and soul no longer setting up the team's key plays, Caroline's teammates managed to fight through their tears and defend their state championship the following year. It was the perfect plot for a movie. The Miracle Season, a new film from Director Sean McNamara, is a heartbreakingly beautiful tribute to Found and her friends' unthinkable come-from-behind victory. Having struggled at the start of the season with the scars of losing their beloved captain, the team had to rally to win 15 straight games just to make it to the championship. They found themselves behind again at the final game, yet came back two sets down to win it all. The film stars Oscar winner Helen Hunt as Coach Kathy "Brez" Bresnahan, who wrote the book that inspired the movie. Hunt worked with McNamara for the film Soul Surfer, which depicted surfer Bethany Hamilton's tragic run in with a shark and her incredible recovery. So, the two know something about how to turn a heartbreaking situation into a beautiful piece of art. Some of the film's most heart wrenching scenes are watching Caroline's father Ernie cope with death. You see, he didn't only lose his daughter. Just over a week after Caroline's accident, his wife Ellyn lost her battle with pancreatic cancer. Oscar winner William Hurt beautifully captures Ernie's strength. We watch his courageous road to recovery - from the moment he collapses from the news of his daughter's death to his cheering in the stands for Caroline's teammates at the state championship. We watch Caroline's friends and teammates struggle through their own heartbreak. They are inconsolable in their first few practices after their captain's death. Yet, slowly, they begin to rediscover the joy of the sport and how to "Live Like Line." In that regard, the film was very well paced. In a conversation with Townhall, Director Sean McNamara explained that, while he would've liked to have Caroline in the film for at least 60 minutes, it would have been near impossible to allow her team to grieve, recover, train and defend their state title in just half an hour. Parts of the film seem manufactured by Hollywood to reproduce that predictable movie magic. All the typical plot twists are there. The underdogs are down two sets in the championship game, only to rally back and win the match on a perfectly placed spiked ball that almost paints the line. It seems very farfetched...until you watch the real footage in the credits to realize that's exactly what happened. The best stories aren't scripted. Iowa City West truly had a miracle season. At the press screening, the audience cried about every 15-20 minutes. But the film included enough humor to keep the mood as light as was humanly possible considering the circumstances. The jokes served as reminders to celebrate Caroline's life and how she impacted the Iowa City West community, where her presence is still very much felt. The high school still gives out "Live Like Line" athletic awards each year, her dad explained in a sit down conversation with me last week. For more information on the Founds, watch the well done HBO special "Live Like Line." Or, read Townhall's interview with Caroline's father Ernie. Grade: B
Former first daughter Chelsea Clinton reacted on Thursday to Samantha Bee describing President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump as a “feckless c**t.” “It’s grossly inappropriate and just flat-out wrong to describe or talk about Ivanka Trump or any woman that way,” Chelsea Clinton responded on Twitter when asked by Breitbart News for her reaction to the controversy. Bee berated Ivanka Trump for posting a picture of her child on Instagram. “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child,” Samantha Bee said on her TBS comedy show on Wednesday night. “But let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c**t!” The White House demanded TBS and Time Warner give a response. “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network,” White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement to reporters.
"View" host Whoopi Goldberg has lashed out at Roseanne Barr for sharing a graphic, Photoshopped image of Goldberg on Twitter. Following the news of her TV show cancellation, Barr decided to share her feelings by retweeting others who supported her. In doing so, Barr took aim at Goldberg by retweeting a Photoshopped image of the host at the 2017 Women's March wearing a shirt that read "Make America Great Again" with a graphic, bloody image of President Trump holding a gun to his head. A Twitter user shared the since-deleted tweet and wrote, “Out of curiosity @ABC & @Disney this is okay with you? Hypocrisy on the Left is sickening." The real message on Goldberg's Women's March shirt read, “And you thought I was a nasty woman before? Buckle up, buttercup.” The 62-year-old host talked about the Photoshopped tweet on Wednesday's episode of her show. “In her Twitter rant following the cancellation, [Barr] also retweeted a false picture of me. So here we go again. Here is the truth about the shirt I was wearing at the Women’s March in New York,” she explained. “Now some bonehead Photoshopped a horrific image on the shirt. And she retweeted this.” The award-winning actress then directly addressed Barr and stated, “So this is what I’m gonna say, Roseanne. Just because you were caught with your pants down, don’t try to drag other people down with you. You understand? Don’t do that … The bottom line is simply this: I didn’t fake my shirt, someone else faked my shirt. But that’s your tweet. That tweet came from you. So that’s yours. You did this to yourself.” Barr's hit series was canceled after she posted a racist tweet. She initially issued an apology for her remarks but then defended herself in a tweet on Wednesday. She wrote: “I’m not a racist, I never was & I never will be. One stupid joke in a lifetime of fighting 4 civil minorities, against networks, studios, at the expense of my nervous system/family/wealth will NEVER b taken from me.”
TBS late-night host Samantha Bee is facing mounting backlash after she called White House senior advisor Ivanka Trump a “feckless cunt.” Bee’s vile remarks came one day after Roseanne Barr’s show was canceled by ABC after the actress compared former Obama administration senior advisor Valerie Jarrett to an ape. To be sure, the Full Frontal host has a history of hurling vicious personal attacks at the women who work in President Donald Trump’s administration. Below is a list of just five of Bee’s cruel comments toward prominent White House women. 1. Ivanka Trump: “Feckless cunt.” Samantha Bee roasted the Trump administration’s immigration policy and pleaded with Ivanka Trump “do something about your dad’s immigration practices you feckless c*nt.” 2. Kellyanne Conway: “Soulless, Machiavellian despot.” Bee wasted no time to go after Conway just a day before Trump was sworn into office, saying of one of his most trust advisors: “Kellyanne is the soulless, Machiavellian despot America deserves!” Later, during the same seven-minute rant, Bee described Conway as, “Donald Trump’s omnipresent spokes-cobra.” 3. Hope Hicks: “Bitch” who “helped burn down democracy.” Upon Hope Hicks’ exit as President Trump’s communications director, Bee issues some searing parting words. “Well, not tonight. I cannot let another week go by without saying, ’Fuck you, Hope Hicks!'” Bee belted. “Hope Hicks, thanks to your force-field of bland, pretty whiteness, you’ll probably escape this nightmare presidency unscathed,” Bee continued. “You’ll disappear into nice, wealthy anonymity in a nice town somewhere and someday you’ll go to the gates of the nice, white, Protestant heaven where St. Peter will laugh in your face and say, ’You think you’re getting in here? You helped burn down democracy, bitch, get your ass downstairs!’” 4. Sarah Huckabee Sanders: “Fucking liar” … “Completely evil.” “Sarah Huckabee Sanders is a fucking liar, goodnight, everyone! OK, fine. Look, calling Sanders a liar isn’t an insult, it’s her job description,” Bee said of Sanders. “So I salute you, Sarah Huckabee Sanders,” Bee said. “You’ve outlasted every man who’s had your job and almost any other job in the Trump White House to become one of the most powerful women in the nation. You are a hell of a role model for little girls everywhere who are smart and hardworking and completely evil.” 5. Melania Trump: “Trophy wife-turned-reluctant first lady.” In a Medium.com blog post mocking Mrs. Trump’s plans to host the official state dinner between President Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron, Bee wrote, “Prior to being trophy wife-turned-reluctant first lady, Melania was actually a party planner.” Bee also took a swipe at Mrs. Trump during Wednesday’s episode in a segment about the so-called missing immigrant children who were reportedly lost while illegally crossing the border. “Melanie lives in the White House and nobody can find her,” Bee said. “It’s okay, she’s totally being best under there,” Bee said as a photo appeared to show Mrs. Trump hiding under a bed. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson
In a video released Monday, Dutch MP Geert Wilders called the arrest of outspoken British activist and Islam critic Tommy Robinson an “absolute disgrace.” “Freedom of speech is being violated all over Europe and also in Britain. The lights of freedom are going out. Islam critics are taken to court, jailed or targeted with fatwa’s. The authorities try to silence us. However, Islamists are pampered, protected and defended. And that is totally unacceptable,” he said. The video statement comes after Robinson was arrested Friday on suspicion of breach of peace while filming alleged child grooming gang members as they entered the Leeds Crown Court. Wilders also said that he and his supporters will continue to be outspoken about crimes committed against Europeans and that he will do whatever it takes to protect the innocent. “We will continue speaking the truth about Islam and horrendous crimes like rape, genital mutilation, honor killings and terrorism. For we protect our own people. Whatever the price may be,” he stated. “That is why I stand here in solidarity with Tommy Robinson. Britain used to be a bastion of freedom of speech. Today, its authorities are behaving like North Korea and Saudi Arabia! I am here on behalf of millions, in the Netherlands, in Europe, and also in Britain. And in their name I say: We will no longer be silent! Our future is at stake, and we will protect it. Free Tommy Robinson! Release him from jail today! Restore freedom of speech and stop gagging the people.” European MP Gerard Batten tweeted about the arrest on Friday. “What kind of police state have we become?” He wrote. Radio host Rush Limbaugh also commentedTuesday, stating that Robinson is labeled as “far right” because he is against open borders. “What’s happening in the UK… They’re a way ahead of us in terms of open borders and the destruction of their culture. They have permitted it. It’s gotten to the point now… if I’m reading some of these things right, they have lost control,” he said. “The immigrants are actually now in positions of power to actually determine policy, and they are enforcing authoritarian, autocratic policies.” Apetitiontitled ‘Free Tommy Robinson’ has so far received almost 500,000 signatures. “Tommy Robinson has been arrested and jailed for reporting on Muslim grooming gangs. A job that he chooses to do with no regard for his own safety, informing the public of all the wrongs committed in the name of Allah. Fighting against adversity and reporting on issues that our mainstream media are too afraid to speak of,” the petition reads. “Tommy is raising issues that are affecting all of our communities, and that are being swept under the carpet and hidden from the public. Its time we stand together, stand strong, and stand by his side.” On Sunday, Protestors gatheringoutside Downing Street in London called for Robinson’s release, holding signs and banners that read “#FreeTommy” and “Make Britain Great Again.”
Well, the tail end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018 started off with the incoming blue tsunami. The Democratic takeover was all but assured. The Democratic Party base was super energized. The generic ballot advantage favored Democrats by double-digits. The GOP was so, so screwed, right? Yeah, no—as many of us already know there’s still an eternity between now and Election Day in the political universe. Anything can happen—and it has. The generic ballot advantage has shrunk to single-digits. The economy is improving, millions of working class families, and hundreds of companies, are benefitting from Trump’s tax reform, and the Left really hasn’t offered much other than we don’t like Trump. On the 2018 campaign trail, the 2020 contenders are increasing their profile. Sens. Kamala Harris (D-CA) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) are notable examples. Sen. Kristen Gillibrand (D-NY) is another possible 2020 candidate. Most if not the entire 2020 field for the Democrats are unknowns. They’re not an Obama or Clinton caliber name. They’re not even Joe Biden or Bernie Sanders, both men could also toss their hat into the ring. They’re young politicians with regional appeal, very regional appeal. It also doesn’t help that some, like Booker, say they can relate and understand rural voters because they read books about them. Uh, besides that point being malarkey, Trump’s potential challenges hail from California, New York, and New Jersey—it’s the epitome of liberal elite. These people don’t care about rural voters. They mock them and think they’re inferior. So, for folks who live in the more grounded parts of the country, be aware that the Democratic Party’s base hates you and they hate your values; don’t let the wolf in the hen house so to speak. Trump could beat the 2020 field. Sanders might be more of a fight, but overall—Democrats is still worried that the Trump era could last a full eight years. Hence, why there seems to be a debate on Team Obama over how they should feel about these Korea talks. If Trump succeeds and inks a deal between the two nations, but that would allow the Trump White House to make a case for a second term. It would undercut and slay the talking point that Trump would bring chaos to the world; a Korean deal would be a Nobel Peace Prize worthy accomplishment (via NTK Network): MSNBC’s Hallie Jackson asked Baker what former Obama staffers are most worried about when it comes to Trump undoing former President Obama’s legacy. “What they’re concerned about most is whether President Trump gets reelected,” Baker said. The reporter then explained how former Obama staffers are debating whether it’s better for the country for Trump to reach a deal with North Korea or for the negotiations to fail. “Because you don’t want anything to happen that would give him an argument for a second term,” Baker said. “So, they are struggling with this idea that Donald Trump is not necessarily a one-term phenomenon. He could very well be president for eight years.” If the economic news remains positive, if the small business and consumer confidence indicators maintain their record high positions, if the Left keeps bashing his supporters and keep self-owning themselves in epic fashion—yes, Trump will be re-elected. AND if the GOP is able to hold onto the House, then you can bet those chances increased ten-fold. Real Clear Politics’ Sean Trende admitted that by the time we get to Election Day, that Blue Wave could very well turn into a low tide: GRIFF JENKINS, FNC: Listen, the president’s approval rating is up. We’ll just put it up quickly so you see it if you haven’t already. 42% approve, that is incredibly up from the 30% that most Democrats refer to in recent weeks. Tell me, why are we seeing this approval? And you have about three things you believe we should be looking at right now. SEAN TRENDE, RCP: There’s a couple of things going on. I think the good economic news is starting to break through. I think people are starting to question where the Mueller investigation is going. I think it had kept the president down for a while. And I think the tax cuts energized the Republican base and are playing a role in the president’s improving fortunes. JENKINS: Now, traditionally, about 23, 24 seats change hands in these midterm elections. Aside from the environment that we’re in, how do you factor in this environment now? TRENDE: Well, I think if you looked six months ago, you would say it was doomsday for the Republicans with the Republican down in the 30s, showing a double-digit lead for Democrats. But that’s just not the world we’re in today. The president is up into the low to mid 40s, and his job approval, the generic ballot has closed to a four-point lead for the Democrats, so I think we’ve gone from Democrats being heavy favorites to take the House to something of a dead heat and maybe a thumb on the scale for the Republicans... Keep America Great! Am I right?
A Florida police officer was praised earlier this month for helping a homeless man who needed to take his dog to the vet. Officer Bart Wester with the Tampa Police Department noticed the homeless man, who has not been identified, asking for money from passersby because his dog, Karma, required veterinary attention. But instead of arresting the man, Wester decided to take Karma and the dog’s owner to Vets4Pets, a charitable veterinary hospital in Tampa. Not only did Wester drive the pair to the facility, but he also paid for the dog’s veterinary bill, according to Vets4Pets. "Thank you Officer Wester. We think you are the best!” the veterinary hospital wrote on Facebook, adding that Wester, who has served with the Tampa Police Department for 10 years, “does special things like this all the time.” “Officer Wester appreciates all the kind words and takes great pride in protecting and serving all our residents - including the four-legged ones,” the police department wrote on Facebook. Eddy Durkin, the PIO for the Tampa Police Department, was not immediately available for additional comment when contacted by Fox News on Thursday.
As I listened to President Trump take a victory lap after signing the bill that reversed a good bit of the Dodd- Frank regulations, he said something that struck a chord. What he pointed out was that these rules were so onerous, that only the big banks had the resources to comply with the law, and the small banks did not, so they began to fold. All because of government regulation. The losers were consumers who had less choice because of reduced competition, forcing them to pay higher prices for fewer services. Does this not sound just like health care today? Does the president not see this? If he does, then he must be listening to the wrong people because the solution is in plain sight. The problem in health care is not an insurance problem as most everyone is focused on. It is a price problem. Health care costs too much. If it did not, people could pay for it themselves, and would not need to rely on insurance companies or the government to pick up the tab. Health care is now close to 20 percent of the U.S. Gross Domestic Product. This amounts to annual spending of $3.4 trillion. Certain special interests are incentivized to maintain the status quo because they are making record profits. The insurance and the pharmaceutical industries are the obvious culprits, spending obscene amounts of money to influence policy makers and "spin" the healthcare problems to deflect blame away from them and to attribute the problems elsewhere. But few think about another special interest which may bear equal responsibility for this crisis- the hospital industry. The irony is that this problem was actually created by government. At one time, hospitals were facilities into which doctors admitted their sick patients. Not today. Now, hospitals control much of people's health care experience and have become the power brokers in this space. If one goes to any major city in the U.S., the largest building projects are hospitals. Consolidation has occurred resulting in smaller hospitals being "swallowed up" by the larger ones. The large hospitals are buying doctors so that they can control the flow of patients into their facilities. Sixty-five percent of doctors now work for hospitals. What has happened that accounts for this? The answer is government interference in health care. Doctors have been forced by government to comply with regulations forced upon them so that they can continue to see patients and to get paid by Medicare and Medicaid. The costs associated with this have become so great and the amount that doctors get paid for their services have been cut back so much, that they can't afford to remain in business; the same problem that small banks faced under the burdensome regulations of Dodd-Frank. Hospitals gladly buy up doctor practices to control patient flow. They have been put into this position by the government thanks to four different policies. First, most hospitals operate as nonprofit entities, paying no taxes and using that money to grow. This means hiring more administrators who contribute nothing to the health or care of patients, but who are adept at perpetuating corporate bloat. The second is that hospitals are paid at a higher rate than physicians for the identical service, even when performed by the same doctor. The same is true for services that have been incorporated into the hospitals, such as radiology and laboratory services, and operative procedures. Third, there are laws that exist which prevents the formation of monopolies that are applied to other industries, even to physicians in private practice. These laws have been ignored as it pertains to hospitals, allowing them to become as powerful as they have become. Finally, hospitals have been given favorable status by federal and state government, which prevents competition (certificate of need statutes) further enhancing their monopoly status. The consequence of this has been unrestrained pricing by hospitals for everything that they do. This more than anything is the reason why insurance costs have soared; to keep up with the steep increase in charges by hospitals There are many reasons why health care is so expensive, but a great deal of the blame lies with the government and the regulatory environment. Special interests who enjoy the status quo argue that these regulations are especially needed in healthcare to protect the public. The truth is that they serve only to protect the special interests. President Trump needs to do in health care what he did in banking; to level the playing field by removing regulations on physicians that get in the way of patient care and that unnecessarily drive health care costs up.
Xavier Rudd, "Storm Boy" (Nettwerk Records) The title track of Xavier Rudd's latest album was inspired by a pelican he saw while sitting by a river sipping tea. The water bird reminded him of Mr. Percival, a winged and feathered co-star of "Storm Boy," a 1976 film about a young boy's adventures in an isolated region of Australia, including his friendship with an Aboriginal man and the learning of some of life's unavoidable lessons. Rudd's "Storm Boy" is not a soundtrack to the eponymous film but, except for some deeply personal and romantic songs, its themes seem to match — the environment, self-knowledge and self-belief, materialism, links between history and now, reconciliation, the joys of living and the twists of fate. Musically, Rudd fits effortlessly into the contemporary singer-songwriter vernacular — some acoustic sounds, some strings, some reggae beats, plenty of soaring choruses. And a didgeridoo and ample earnestness. At his best, he sounds a little like Tim Finn. Opener "Walk Away" has a prime example of the soaring chorus, while "Fly Me High" is about being in Peru, a vision of his future wife and a butterfly sitting on his feet while in the Amazon rainforest. "Best That I Can" mentions Mother Teresa and current affairs and "Times Like These" waxes philosophical: "I believe we can breathe in the magic of our Earth/And I believe we can exhale anything we feel we didn't deserve." Rudd has the ability to integrate each of the songs into a single flow, like a river winding through varied landscapes. The journey on "Storm Boy" has plenty of captivating tunes and if sometimes it feels a tad long as the 13 songs stream by, Rudd's personality and musicianship make for amiable travelling companions.
San Diego parents pulled their kids from school and rallied outside the district’s headquarters Tuesday, expressing anger and frustration over a sexual education curriculum they allege is completely inappropriate for their young children. The sixth-grade curriculum includes lessons on gender identity, birth control, the stages of sex, STDs, HIV and pregnancy. Parents are calling the material “too much, too soon” and age-inappropriate while San Diego officials defend the curriculum by arguing that the Centers For Disease Control And Prevention supports the lesson plans, KFMB reported. “We’re going to ask them to suspend this new curriculum because it’s not a curriculum for the adolescent brain, it’s an adult curriculum,” mom Angela Beaver said, San Diego parents also loudly rallied in February, asking the district to change its sex-ed curriculum to make it age-appropriate, but the district board did not acquiesce. TRENDING: Blue Wave Drying Up as Polls for NJ Senate Race Show Incumbent Dem. Struggling Parents also began an online petition asking the school district to abandon the curriculum. “This is absolutely appropriate for our students,” said Isabella McNeil from San Diego Unified School District, maintaining that the parents are getting upset over material that should in fact be taught to young students. San Diego parents can opt their child out of the sex-ed curriculum if they choose, but no substitute curriculum will be provided. Forth Worth schools have also been reeling after a sex-ed lesson for sixth graders entailed gender transitions and sexual fluidity, according to the Star-Telegram. Do you think this sex-ed curriculum is age-inappropriate? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Sex-ed programs in other states have also been causing chaos. A California school district told parents in February they can’t opt their kids out of a new sex education course covering abortion, homosexuality and transgender issues. Despite California’s 2015 Healthy Youth Act, which lets parents opt their children out of sex-ed classes, the Orange County Board of Education decided parents don’t have that right. Delaware is considering adopting a policy allowing young school students to choose whatever name, gender or race they want under a veil of school protection mandating the parents not be informed of these decisions unless the student explicitly wishes the parent be included. A version of this article appeared on The Daily Caller News Foundation website. RELATED: Obama-Era Policies May Have Eroded School Safety in Broward County Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallern ewsfoundation.org. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The thing about running for president is you’re going to miss a lot of work. The annual report card for the 114th Congress from congressional tracking website GovTrack.us shows that the three U.S. senators who tried to move from the Capitol to the White House also missed the most votes in 2016. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, lead the way by missing 32.3 percent of the 502 votes cast in 2016, followed by Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., with 31.3 percent. Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders from Vermont, an independent who’s actually among the most liberal members of the Senate, missed 28.5 percent of the votes. Josh Tauberer, creator of GovTrack, told Watchdog.org that’s a very common occurrence during a presidential election. “Everybody, when they run for president, they stop voting because they’re campaigning,” he said. Among the senators in the top 10 for missed votes were three who left the Senate after the 114th Congress: Sen. David Vitter, R-La., with 15.1 percent (fifth), Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., 13.3 percent (sixth) and Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., 12.2 percent (seventh). Those members of Congress who aren’t running for re-election are no longer beholden to voters, though Tauberer said he hasn’t examined the numbers closely enough over the years to see if there’s a pattern of high numbers of missed votes for those leaving office. Twelve senators missed no votes in 2016, including such notables as Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, who hasn’t missed a vote in 23 years, Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. View the total missed votes for each member of the Senate here, and for the House here. Rep. Loretta Sanchez, D-Calif., was not present for 29.3 percent of 1,325 House votes cast last year, topping that list. She’s also out the Capitol door for the 115th Congress after losing a Senate race. So is Rep. Stephen Fincher, R-Tenn., who missed 27.3 percent of votes for the dubious runner-up position. Six representatives missed at least 20 percent of votes, while 11 missed no votes. GovTrack notes that missed votes are not calculated for the Speaker of the House because the Speaker is not required to vote in “ordinary legislative proceedings,” according to House rules.
Archaeologists in Egypt have unearthed a 2,200-year-old gold coin depicting the ancient King Ptolemy III, an ancestor of the famed Cleopatra. The coin, which bears the image of the King on one of its faces, was discovered during the excavation of a large Greco-Roman building at the San El-Hagar archaeological site in Northern Egypt. Ptolemy III ruled Egypt in the 3rd century B.C. Egypt’s Ministry of Antiquities says that the coin was made during the reign of King Ptolemy IV in memory of his father. Ptolemy IV reigned from 180 to 145 B.C. RARE ROMAN DISCOVERY THRILLS EXPERTS: EMPEROR'S MARBLE HEAD FOUND AT EGYPTIAN TEMPLE SITE In a Facebook post, the Ministry explained that archaeologists also found pottery vessels, terracotta statues, bronze tools, a stone fragment engraved with hieroglyphs and a small statue of a ram at the site in the Nile Delta. The value of the coin has not yet been revealed. Egypt hopes such discoveries will spur tourism, which has suffered from political turmoil following the 2011 uprising. Ancient Egypt continues to reveal its secrets. Archaeologists in southern Egypt, for example, recently discovered an extremely rare marble head depicting the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius. AMAZING MUMMY DISCOVERY: 2,500-YEAR-OLD EGYPTIAN COFFIN WAS THOUGHT TO BE EMPTY Experts in Australia also recently found the tattered remains of an ancient priestess in a 2,500-year-old Egyptian coffin that was long thought to be empty. On the other side of the world, a rare ancient artifact depicting the famous female pharaoh Hatshepsut surfaced in the U.K. Stunning new research also claims that King Tutankhamun may have been a boy soldier, challenging the theory he was a weak and sickly youth before his mysterious death at around 18 years of age. Experts in the U.K. also found the world’s oldest figurative tattoos on two ancient Egyptian mummies recently, one of which is the oldest tattooed female ever discovered. MYSTERIOUS ANCIENT ARTWORK DEPICTING FEMALE PHARAOH FOUND BY ACCIDENT Other recent finds include an ancient cemetery in Egypt with more than 40 mummies and a necklace containing a “message from the afterlife.” An ancient statue of a Nubian king with an inscription written in Egyptian hieroglyphics was also found at a Nile River temple in Sudan. Scientists also believe that they may have found the secret of the Great Pyramid’s near-perfect alignment. Experts are also confident that they have solved the long-standing mystery of the “screaming mummy.” In February, archaeologists announced the discovery of a 4,400-year-old tomb near the pyramids. Late last year, archaeologists also revealed that they had uncovered the graves of four children at an ancient site in Egypt. The Associated Press contributed to this article. Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
Harvard awarded its Radcliffe Medal to Hillary Clinton on Friday for her “transformative impact on society.” That’s not a misprint. The prestigious Ivy League university is giving the woman who ran for president and lost, twice, an award for transforming society. Harvard said it picked Clinton because of her advocacy for human rights, her work as a legislator, and her leadership around the world on behalf of America. If “transformative impact” and Hillary Clinton in the same sentence has you shaking your head, you’re not alone. She not only lost the presidency twice, she has wasted the last year and a half going on tour around the world to blame America for not electing her in 2016. It’s no wonder President Obama made her Secretary of State when he was elected in 2008 – after beating her in the primary that everyone expected her to walk away with. Clearly he knew the best way to keep her quiet was to keep her close. Let’s be real, this is Harvard, arguably one of the most liberal universities in the country. Hillary isn’t being rewarded for transforming anything. It’s not a good look for feminism, and all the more proof that America chose correctly in 2016. Hillary continues to look backward with anger and bitterness. She’s being rewarded because they agree with her that it was her turn in 2016 and the country got it wrong - Donald Trump should not be president. Even though he’s the one who’s really having the transformative impact on society. While she may not have transformed society the way Harvard is crediting her with, she has impacted and transformed the post-election cycle by turning it into a serial campaign instead of gracefully fading into the background like most dignified losers. If she were to brand a slogan for the show she’s taken on the road since losing the Oval Office to President Trump a year and a half ago, the side of her bus would read: “The Blame Game - No Excuse Left Behind.” Instead of cutting her losses and moving on, she’s traveling the world making sure everyone knows it’s not her fault she lost. She has an excuse for everything and everything has an excuse. Blame and belligerence are the name of her game. Speaking to graduates at Yale this week, Hillary put on a Russian hat to make a joke out of the Russian involvement in the 2016 election. A year and a half after losing the election, Democrats are still trying, without a shred of evidence, to accuse President Trump of colluding with the Russians during the campaign. Not only is there no sign of collusion with the Trump campaign and the Russians, but many signs point to an evident conspiracy among law enforcement and intelligence communities to ensure Hillary won the White House. It’s nice that she can laugh and make jokes given that it looks as though unprecedented (and likely illegal) efforts were made by officials in the Obama administration to try to get her elected – and she still lost. It was also at Yale that she admitted she’s still not over her loss to President Trump. You don’t say. In Australia recently to speak with Julia Gillard, the country’s first female prime minister, Hillary once again pulled out the sexism card, one of her favorites, to justify losing the presidency to Donald Trump. Hillary said, “There is still a very large proportion of the population that is uneasy with women in positions of leadership.” This is an incessantly recurring theme. Earlier this year in India she said that sexism and racism were why she lost the election. But interestingly, when given the choice between endorsing a man or a woman in the New York gubernatorial race, Hillary, the former Empire State Senator and feminist icon who believes people are uneasy with women in leadership, chose to endorse Governor Andrew Cuomo over Cynthia Nixon this week. New York has never had a woman governor. Wouldn’t electing Nixon be truly transformative? That’s what women were told in 2016 when it came to voting for president. And yet, there’s something eerily familiar about Hillary’s nixing of Nixon. Mrs. Clinton has always been the queen of the double standard, why should this instance be any different? Harvard’s idea of what constitutes a transformative impact is likely very different than what most of the country considers that term to mean. Hillary has certainly impacted society, and the mark she’s made hasn’t reflected well on women. When she couldn’t break the ultimate glass ceiling, rather than focus on what she could do, she proceeded to have a perpetual meltdown because of what she didn’t get to do. A meltdown that’s still going strong a year and a half later, and there’s no indication of it letting up anytime soon. So, yes she’s been transformative and impactful. Just not in a way that helps move women forward, but instead sets us back decades. It’s not a good look for feminism, and all the more proof that America chose correctly in 2016. Hillary continues to look backward with anger and bitterness. Meanwhile our country is moving forward with hope and optimism, thriving under the policies of President Trump.
Sarah Saltzberg, co-founder of Bohemia Realty Group, and seven of her Broadway-performer brokers — stars in their own right — are putting on a 90-minute performance to raise funds for Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS on June 7 at the Laurie Beechman Theatre at 407 W. 42nd St. Saltzberg is co-writer of “Gettin’ the Band Back Together,” and a creator and star of “The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee.” AD100 designer Steven Gambrel is selling his own 25-foot-wide townhouse at 68 Morton St. for $8.99 million. The Greek revival-style brick property in the West Village, repped by Joshua Wesokyand Chad Longmore of Compass, comes with three bedrooms and five woodburning fireplaces.
Just a few weeks ago, the media was abuzz about liberal Democrat Beto O'Rourke's chances to unseat Texas Senator Ted Cruz (a.k.a. "that piece of garbage," according to our moral superiors). A blue wave was brewing, it seemed (ahem), O'Rourke was raising money hand over fist, and a fresh poll showed the contest within just three points, inside the margin of error. In deep red Texas, of all places! Perhaps Beto's glaring primary night weaknesses had already dissipated, and 2018's inevitable nationwide stampede to the Left was underway; political gravity was starting to impose its will. Or perhaps giddy liberals were once against wish-casting their way into delusion. Quinnipiac's newest survey shows Cruz shaking off his (supposedly) weak start and opening up a double-digit lead. Look at some of these internals: Texas Senate poll (Quinnipiac) Ted Cruz (R) 50% Beto O’Rourke (D) 39% *** Men: Cruz leads 57-35% Women: Cruz leads 44-42% Hispanic: Cruz leads 46-44% White: Cruz leads 62-28% Black: O’Rourke leads 70-15% *** Favorables: Cruz 49/38 O’Rourke 30/19https://t.co/CaoeSaWYUN — Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) May 30, 2018 Cruz is dominating among men and whites, but also slightly leading with...women and hispanics. Meanwhile, O'Rourke is only pulling 70 percent of black voters, and leads very marginally (46/41) among 18-34 year-olds. The national electoral climate could shift back in Democrats' favor in the coming months, but one real red flag for O'Rourke here is his low name ID. Yes, he'll have barrels of money to throw at Cruz in a drumbeat of attacks, but Cruz is a known commodity in the state. O'Rourke is not. Team Ted has a major opportunity to define Beto O'Rourke to voters who aren't particularly familiar with him -- and I'd wager that a lot of Texans aren't going to be enamored with the thought of sending an NRA-cursing, pro-impeachment, abortion radical leftist to Washington. By the way, the Lone Star State's gubernatorial contest is looking even more lopsided, with Greg Abbott parlaying strong popularity (53/27) and impressive leadership into a commanding, broad-based lead: Another nugget from that new Texas Q-poll: Gov. Greg Abbott leads his Democratic challenger by 19 points overall in #TXGov -- including a double-digit lead among young voters...while pulling in ~1/5 black voters. pic.twitter.com/2jtNehbAhJ — Guy Benson (@guypbenson) May 31, 2018 Again, this is just one poll, and Texas Republicans' fortunes could head south. But these are not data points that indicate a serious Democratic wave is building, at least in certain GOP strongholds. Meanwhile, with a new poll showing conservative challengers leading Sen. Claire McCaskill in Missouri, the resignation of scandal-plagued Gov. Eric Greitens comes as a relief for Republicans in that state. The Senate frontrunner, Attorney General Josh Hawley had called on Greitens to step down, threatening to open up a nasty intra-party rift, especially as the Republican-dominated legislature pursued impeachment. That ugly chapter now appears to be about to come to a close, giving the party months to unify and train their fire and attention on the hyper-vulnerable McCaskill. I also, found this virtual whisper of a favorable poll number to be intriguing: Just saw a private poll with Renacci at 56%(!) in #OHSen. — Phil Kerpen (@kerpen) May 30, 2018 Take that piece of information with a large grain of salt, but if the Ohio Senate race is actually competitive -- most experts have assumed liberal Sherrod Brown will coast to re-election, even though Trump carried the state comfortably -- that could mean that Democrats' resources will be stretched extremely thin. This is also true if they have to play defense in New Jersey on behalf of Bob Menendez, who avoided a federal corruption conviction last year thanks to a hung jury. Democrats will already need to pour money into Florida, where popular governor-turned-Senate-candidate Rick Scott is running an aggressive and competitive campaign. Here's his latest ad down there: Beyond the Senate map, I'll leave you with two tweets -- good news and bad news for Republicans out of California. The good news could limit Democrats' expected House gains in that deep blue, vote rich state. The bad news is...really bad:
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Political commentator Monica Crowley and Todd Starnes discuss whether the Obama Justice Department and FBI spied on the Trump presidential campaign and the transition team. "There's so much more to come, but when you start teasing it out, it looks more and more likely that the Obama administration, at its highest levels, implanted informants in the Trump campaign to spy on a political adversary," Crowley said. Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America! Listen to the whole interview here: Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."
The Gazette: Happy Constitution Day. Let’s celebrate liberty Sunday was Constitution Day. We should celebrate this obscure holiday like never before, as the country needs a constitutional revival. Constitution Day is a nationwide remembrance of the signing of the Constitution on Sept. 17, 1787. As our country unravels along the lines of partisan division and identity politics, knowledge of the United States Constitution may be our only hope to maintain a free republic. At the 1787 Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia, a woman asked Benjamin Franklin if this would be a republic or monarchy. Denver Post: Colorado mulls state limit for groundwater contamination from PFCs Colorado health officials grappling with groundwater contamination from firefighting foam — containing a toxic chemical the federal government allows — have proposed to set a state limit to prevent more problems. A Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment limit for the perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs) also could give leverage in compelling cleanup by the Air Force, which has confirmed high levels of PFCs spreading from a military air base east of Colorado Springs. More than 65,000 residents who relied on the underground Widefield Aquifer as a water source have had to find alternative supplies or install new water-cleaning systems as a plume of PFCs contamination moves south through the Fountain Valley watershed. “We need to be able to have not just a carrot, but a stick,” CDPHE environmental toxicologist Kristy Richardson said last week, discussing the effort to set a state limit. The proposed maximum allowable level of 70 parts per trillion in groundwater — matching a health advisory level the Environmental Protection Agency declared in May 2016 for two types of PFCs — wouldn’t be finalized until April, Richardson said. A boundary has yet to be drawn for where the limit would apply. Denver Post opinion: In Denver’s courting of Amazon, officials should remember the taxpayers Civic and elected officials are abuzz at the prospect of luring retail giant Amazon to Denver, and little wonder why. In looking to create a second headquarters on the scale of its massive holdings in Seattle, the company promises to invest $5 billion and fill 50,000 well-paying jobs in a gleaming new corporate campus expected to be larger than the Pentagon. The Mile High City could use a top-25 company to continue diversifying its economy. The innovative professionals Amazon would hire and attract would enhance our entrepreneurial culture. The kinds of ancillary businesses attracted by a second Amazon headquarters would add to the growth and opportunities across the metro area. Count us among those hopeful of attracting such a world-class corporation to our fair city. Also count us among those proud to see a New York Times analysis of candidates that ranked Denver as the should-be first choice for Amazon’s second HQ, based on a review of the company’s extensive bidding criteria. Clearly, the forward-thinking and hard work of many officials in Denver, the Front Range and the state are to be praised.
It’s the last Thursday of the month. By 1:30 p.m. on this blue sky April afternoon, the faithful are lining up behind the administration building of the Washington Crossing National Cemetery in Bucks County, Pa. “Here for the ‘Unattended’?” one man asks another. “Unattended” is shorthand for an act of grace on the part of the cemetery’s staff, its volunteers, and hundreds of other supporters. At 2 o’clock on the last Thursday of every month this group stands in as family for vets whose memorial services would otherwise go unattended, ensuring that all due honors are received. “It’s something that’s got to be done,” one man says. More than two dozen cars line up for the procession, and they are joined by at least 20 motorcycles, members of the Warriors Watch Riders, proud supporters of the troops and their families. Today they are the color guard, offering a stirring wall of red, white and blue during the day’s ceremony. By law, all eligible veterans are entitled to military funeral honors – a detail of two uniformed military personnel, at least one from the veteran’s branch of service; the folding and presentation of the U.S. burial flag; and the playing of “Taps.” At Washington Crossing, such honors – daily since the first burial here in 2010 -- are rendered at one of two “committal shelters” on the cemetery grounds. In addition, the Guardians of the National Cemetery, a group of local volunteers, provides teams of three to seven veterans to serve as honor guards that respectfully stand watch at the services and fire the rifle volleys in salute. The procession makes its way past row upon row of white headstones. Maybe a hundred gather for these “unattended,” a standing-room-only crowd spilling past the roof of the open-air committal shelter. A wooden urn, adorned with the coats of arms of the five branches of the U.S. military, sits on the small altar, a folded flag leaning against it. The Army detail consists of two noncommissioned officers. The honor guard is off to the right, the flags of the color guard on the left. “We should guard their graves with sacred vigilance. … Let no vandalism of avarice or neglect, no ravages of time, testify to the present or to the coming generations that we have forgotten, as a people, the cost of a free and undivided republic." A representative of the cemetery thanks those in attendance. “Your presence here today continues to reinforce our commitment that no veteran should take this final journey alone.” The chaplain speaks of a life of service, and the love and sacrifice of veterans. The names of the deceased are read: Edwin Boerner, U.S. Army Sydney Rigby, U.S. Navy Michael Suppa, U.S. Navy Richard Crouthamel, U.S. Navy Gary Liebert, U.S. Navy The honor guard of seven fires three volleys, and then, in response to the command “Present arms,” holds their rifles vertically in front of their bodies. Veterans in the crowd raise their arms in salute. The mournful call of “Taps” echoes across the fields. When the last note has faded, one of the soldiers moves to the flag. He holds it flat, with one hand above and one below. Facing the other soldier, they slowly unfold it, stepping smartly back as each triangle is undone. When unfurled, the flag is crisply snapped. And the refolding – done as if it had been raised from a casket – begins. First in half. Then half again. And then folded in from the corner, end over end. Thirteen folds in all, a final tuck, and then only the blue starred field is visible. Holding it level again, one hand above and one below, the soldier lowers himself to one knee and presents the flag “on behalf of a grateful nation” to a volunteer who today represents the family of the deceased. The soldiers salute the folded flag and march off. Thanks are again conveyed for attending. The honor guard quietly steps away. The solemn silence of the assembled is broken as they shake hands and greet each other in hushed tones. There are many familiar faces, and they will see each other again, on the next last Thursday, fulfilling the 150-year-old “Memorial Day Order” issued by John A. Logan of the Grand Army of the Republic on May 5, 1868: “We should guard their graves with sacred vigilance. … Let no vandalism of avarice or neglect, no ravages of time, testify to the present or to the coming generations that we have forgotten, as a people, the cost of a free and undivided republic. “If other eyes grow dull and other hands slack, and other hearts cold in the solemn trust, ours shall keep it well as long as the light and the warmth of life remains in us.”
For more than a year, elected Democrats and the liberal media have alleged that President Donald Trump colluded with the Russian government to “steal” the 2016 election away from the “rightful winner,” Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, a narrative that has been steadily unraveling over time. Fox News host Tucker Carlson has grown impatient at the lack of actual evidence put forward to justify such claims or the investigations that have sprung from them, so Monday he invited one of Trump’s most vociferous critics on the topic of Russia — California Rep. Eric Swalwell, a Democrat who sits on the House Intelligence Committee — to appear on his program. Carlson asked Swalwell for any evidence he has seen after 18 months of investigation to back up the collusion case, according to BizPac Review. Swalwell offered up nothing that hasn’t already been made known before about tenuous business connections and marginal meetings that went nowhere, and even seemed to point to an obvious joke by Trump on the campaign trail in July 2016 where he asked the Russians if they knew the whereabouts of Clinton’s 30,000 missing emails as “proof” of some sort of secret coded message to encourage Russian hacking and interference. TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover Carlson noted that those emails have never turned up, to which Swalwell replied, “let’s let the Mueller investigation continue,” insinuating Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation had perhaps obtained them. Has the Mueller investigation gone on too long for what it's turned up? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. He also said that the mere “attempt” by Trump to invite the Russians to hack and obtain Clinton’s emails was, in and of itself, a crime. “I hate to inject common sense into this,” Carlson said. “If you’re trying to make secret contact with Russia, your handlers back in Moscow, wouldn’t you dial them up on the short wave in the basement? Would you really sent a coded message in the middle of a joke at a press conference?” Swalwell replied, “I’m not saying he’s the smartest guy in the world, Tucker. Never accused him of that.” Incredulously, Carlson asked, “So that’s — that’s the smoking gun right there?” “No, it’s part of the evidence,” Swalwell said with all seriousness. “An invitation made by the candidate, telling them it’s OK … he’s not the smartest guy in the world.” Carlson couldn’t help but point out the absurd duality of Swalwell’s assertion. “So he’s both a secret agent for Putin but he’s so dumb that he spills his secrets at a press conference on TV?” he asked. Swalwell replied, “The latter,” making it clear that he is part of the camp that believes Trump is an incredibly unintelligent individual. “There’s no ‘who could be so stupid they admit the crime in public’ exception,” he added. Carlson later pointed to several examples of how Trump has been tougher on Russia than former President Barack Obama — such as sending lethal arms to Ukraine, killing hundreds of Russian soldiers in Syria or hurting their economy with increased U.S. oil and gas production — all of which Swalwell simply dismissed as things Trump was forced to do because of public sentiment that he was too favorable to Russia. RELATED: NYT Lies About Trump Crowd Size, Then Admits Crowd Was 550% Bigger Than It Said Carlson could only laugh at the ludicrous replies from Swalwell, which was pretty much the reaction the entire interview received on social media. Despite having ample time and countless opportunities, this Democrat representative — like the rest of his colleagues and cohorts in the media — was unable to produce any sort of compelling evidence that definitively linked Trump or his campaign with the Russian government during the election. But that won’t stop them from continuing to insist that evidence of collusion will eventually be uncovered, just you wait and see. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Cigna released their U.S. Loneliness Survey this month and reported that loneliness among Americans has reached "epidemic levels." Their survey of over 20,000 Americans found that nearly half reported sometimes or always feeling alone (46 percent) or left out (47 percent). The survey used a 20-item questionnaire that assesses subjective feelings of loneliness and social isolation. The potential effects of loneliness on health are well established. A 2013 study on loneliness showed elevated levels of stress hormones and inflammation, which can increase the risk of heart disease, dementia, and Type 2 diabetes and suicide attempts. Loneliness is prevalent in society. The rising numbers of single adults, the breakdown of the family and the loss of neighborhood and community have all contributed to an immense sense of loneliness in many people's lives. Dr. Julianne Holt-Lunstad, professor of psychology at Brigham Young University reports loneliness peaks in adolescents and young adults, then again in older adults. She says, “Older adults should not be the sole focus of the effects of loneliness. We need to address this for all ages.” Tom Wolfe the great American novelist who just recently passed away wrote, "Loneliness, far from being a rare and curious phenomenon, peculiar to myself and a few solitary men, is a central and inevitable fact of human existence." If you feel lonely remember God cares for you. He knows about loneliness. Jesus experienced the greatest loneliness of all when the Father forsook him on the cross. God knows and cares. The response to loneliness may be to take up a new hobby, make more time for friends or get a pet. Loneliness is seen as something bad and we must take action to overcome it. But God can help transform it into something beneficial for us. Loneliness can cause us to seek God in a deeper way We are so busy we often leave little time for God. When we are alone God has the opportunity to speak to us and receive our undivided attention. Nine times in the gospels we are told that Jesus went away to a lonely place to be with the father. Jesus sought out solitude so he could seek the father's will for his life. Many of the early church fathers were called desert fathers because they sought out the desert as a lonely place to find God. In fact, the Hebrew word for lonely can also be translated as solitude or desert. When we are alone and seek after God we will be rewarded. He will give us increased discernment so desperately needed today. This kind of guidance and wisdom does not come without setting apart time to be with God. Sometimes God causes us to seek him by driving us to him through the loneliness we experience. We can get angry, depressed or we can see it as a gift. Loneliness is a great benefit if we have drawn closer to Christ. Loneliness can be used by God to develop our character In loneliness God reveals our weaknesses and works on changing them. God will test and even increase our patience while we wait in our loneliness. Our deficiencies, insecurities and defense mechanisms are revealed in our aloneness, which God can then use to strengthen our character. Paul knew the power of weaknesses becoming strengths when he said, "When I am weak then I am strong." When we are alone our commitment is tested and our true character shines through. Being faithful alone gives us confidence we can be faithful in community. Amy Carmichael knew about loneliness. She was a missionary to India for 55 years and twice because of accidents had to spend months alone. In her solitude she wrote many books. In one of her books, “Gold By Midnight,” there is a boy who takes a walk in the woods and in the deepest, darkest place finds a patch of lovely orchids. In that lonely place God brought forth great beauty. And God can cultivate beauty in your character through loneliness. Loneliness can inspire us to greater creativity Carl Sandburg wrote, "Shakespeare, Leonardo de Vinci, Benjamin Franklin and Abraham Lincoln never saw a movie, heard a radio or looked at a TV. They had loneliness and knew what to do with it. They were not afraid of being lonely because they knew that then the creative mood in them would work." Creative problem solvers are needed in our world. Imagine the great things God would do if we could tap into His creativity for us. I recently spent five days alone writing. I had so many insights and got so much more done alone than I could when I am around people. In "Life Together" Dietrich Bonheoffer wrote about the need for community and solitude. He said, "If you refuse to be alone you are rejecting Christ's call to you and you can have no part in the community of those who are called." He wrote such strong words because he knew the importance of time alone with God. God wants to give us dreams and visions of what can be done through us and that can come through aloneness. Your greatest achievement may be birthed out of your loneliness. Loneliness can create in us a desire to serve When we are away from people we can come to appreciate humanity more. What we learn in our loneliness can give us a heightened sensitivity to others. There is a time apart and there is also a time to be in community. True community involves our serving one another in love. Sometimes the very fact of our loneliness results from our sitting instead of serving. A boy once asked a lonely old man, "What is life's heaviest burden?" The man responded by saying, "To have nothing to carry." We are needed to do a work no one else but us can do. In our loneliness we can see what needs there are and then determine how God can use us to meet them. There is so much to be done and God may have to put us in a lonely place for a season so that we can get a greater burden to serve. God makes a home for the lonely. It is a place where he can work in us it is a place that can be very beneficial for us. It is not a place to avoid for we are never alone. God will never forsake us, but he will transform us.
ATLANTA — This is the reminder of just how intoxicating the sport can be when you allow it to be. Games like these are the flip side to games like those, and if you are a Mets fan you don’t need be reminded what “those” games are. “That,” Robert Gsellman said, “was fun.” And that is not a word the Mets have often used lately, not one they expected to use when they were facing Julio Teheran — who traditionally is kryptonite with arms when facing the Mets — and they were throwing Jason Vargas, who has spent most of the season lighting himself on fire. (Speaking of fires … There was a fire at Citi Field Wednesday. Honestly. No joke. An actual fire. Nobody was hurt, so it’s OK to let loose a hyena-like peal of hysterical laughter if you’d like because, read that sentence again: THERE WAS A FIRE AT CITI FIELD WEDNESDAY. No word if there were tires or dumpsters involved.) So, naturally, the Mets won the game, 4-1. They avoided dipping below .500 for the first time all season, they split a series they easily could have swept (though it was still hard to believe that they themselves weren’t swept, even after Gsellman, closer for a day — at least — recorded the 27th out). They got five strong innings from Vargas (who was working on three days’ rest, no less) and they got a couple of clutch RBIs from Smilin’ Brandon Nimmo (who, come to think of it, is the one person in baseball who could probably find the silver lining in a stadium fire). And then, in the bottom of the eighth, with runners on the corners in a two-run game and every one of the 21,449 (plus all of the Braves, plus a sizeable number of Mets no doubt) waiting for the inevitable other shoe to drop, Amed Rosario made the kind of play — stabbing a hard-hit grounder by Nick Markakis, starting a 6-4-3 double play that extracted setup-man-for-a-day (at least) Jeurys Familia from likely doom — that made so many talent evaluators drool not so long ago. “It’s the play we’ve been lacking,” manager Mickey Callaway said, “and probably the difference in the game.” It was a good day for the Mets but an especially good day for Sandy Alderson, architect of this team, overseer of a roster that seemed suspiciously skinny at season’s start and has been exposed as being thinner than a Kleenex with 109 games still to go. On this day, though, the three key elements of this win that nudged them back over .500 at 27-26 and still somehow kept them within 4 ½ games of first place were all covered in Alderson’s fingerprints. All three have actually been part of the growing indictment a swelling number of Mets fans have brought against Alderson. There is Vargas, of course, the $16 million man who was only available to pitch Wednesday because he’d been unbearably bad in a brief outing in Milwaukee on Saturday (and “unbearably bad” was actually an upgrade from his first three starts). There was Nimmo, who is quickly becoming a fan favorite with a nice package of attitude, hustle and production but was Alderson’s first No. 1 draft pick in 2011 and took an eternity to pay dividends in a time when more and more stars have been making the leap before they reach legal drinking age. And there was Rosario, formerly a top-two prospect in all of baseball, who is destined to forever be compared to his New York middle-infield contemporary, Gleyber Torres, and has had to watch Torres become a phenomenon in about 15 minutes. It also doesn’t do any favors for Rosario — and certainly not Alderson — when division rivals like the Nationals and Braves can dip easily into their systems, as they have, and pluck out Juan Soto, 19, hitting .375 with a 1.022 OPS and Ronald Acuna Jr., 20, who electrified Atlanta immediately upon his arrival in late April. Rosario, of course, arrived in Flushing amid plenty of expectation and has been slow to honor it. But he did have a triple, a double and two runs scored and lifted his average to .265. And while he booted one routine grounder earlier in the game, he made the heart-stopping, game-saving play in the eighth. “He’s had his ups and downs,” Callaway said, “but his ups …” He paused before continuing, and really didn’t have to, because those are the things that add to baseball’s recipe as an hallucinogen. These are the moments you allow yourself to forget why you were so mad as a fan to begin with. Even if it’s only temporary. After all, as we were reminded Wednesday, a fresh fire can break out again at any time. And in the most unexpected places.
A year after a U.S. Marine veteran from Georgia and his Canadian girlfriend were killed after they left a bar in the Central American country of Belize, their murders remained unsolved and no arrests have been made. Drew DeVoursney, 36, and Francesca Matus, 52, were seen last at Scotty’s Bar and Grill in Corozal in April 2017. Her car turned up soon afterward in a sugar cane field, about 10 miles from the bar. Their bodies, missing for a week, appeared on a road near the field, not far from the country’s border with Mexico. Authorities said the bodies showed signs of strangulation and tape was found on their wrists. Friends and family members say they are frustrated that the killer has not been caught. “There has been nothing — no closure for the families,” Colin McGowan, a Scottish expatriate who is co-owner of Scotty’s Bar and Grill, told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. DeVoursney had been stationed in Fallujah in 2004. With his guitar, he would perform Lynyrd Skynyrd and Allman Brothers songs during his Iraqi deployment. He survived rocket-propelled grenade attacks with his buddy, Brandon Barfield, who told The Journal-Constitution they bought five acres near Corozal Bay, and planned to develop a vacation home on it. “He was my brother,” Barfield, a commercial fisherman, told the Journal-Constitution. Both were Southerners and huge Florida State University football fans. “I think about him every day.” It was Barfield, The Journal-Constitution reported, who got the ball rolling when DeVoursney went missing — alerting the FBI, starting a GoFundMe campaign to raise money for hiring a private investigator and traveling to Belize to ask dozens in the area about the disappearance. A year ago, authorities in Belize named 54-year-old John Deshaies of Canada as a person of interest in the deaths of DeVoursney, who did two tours in Iraq and worked as a military contractor in Afghanistan, and Matus, a mother of two. The Journal-Constitution reported that Deshaies, who rented space on the ground floor of Matus’ seaside home in Belize, has not been charged in connection with the killings and has denied involvement in the murders. The paper reported that the Canadian construction company owner told local television reporters: “Not at all. She is a very good friend of mine. Absolutely not.” Deshaies has been accused of stealing from a local casino. He pleaded not guilty to the theft and handling stolen goods charges, according to The Journal-Constitution. He has been out on bail. DeVoursney’s mother, Char, who lives in the Atlanta area, told The Journal-Constitution that her family has not heard anything new from authorities recently. The U.S. State Department referred questions from The Journal-Constitution about the investigation to Belizean authorities, who didn’t respond to request for comment. The FBI confirmed to The Journal-Constitution it is still assisting with the investigation, but declined to comment further. “It’s been real, real quiet and frustrating,” DeVoursney’s mother said.
Tyler Austin pointed his finger in the mirror. Sporadic playing time wasn’t the problem Wednesday night. “I just got to prepare better, and that’s all it is. That’s all it boils down to,” Austin said after striking out four times and leaving four men on base in the Yankees’ 5-3 win over the Astros at the Stadium. “Today I was terrible. I got to prepare better.” Austin was making his first start in five games, and sure looked rusty, failing to put the ball in play. Against left-hander Dallas Keuchel, manager Aaron Boone opted to rest the lefty-hitting Greg Bird in favor of Austin, who owns a .931 OPS against southpaws this year. It was just Austin’s third start in the past eight games. “It’s not easy, but I got to be a veteran,” Austin said. “I got to prepare myself better.” As his playing time has diminished, Austin’s struggles have increased. He is in the midst of an 0-for-18 drought and has struck out 11 times in that span. But Boone said he still feels Austin can be productive in limited at-bats. “Outside of Keuchel, we’re running up [against] a pretty good stretch of righties,” the manager said. “But I still think you can look to get guys a day here and there that you want to get and kind of maneuver guys and use that DH slot and do the best we can to keep guys fresh.” Austin said he tries not to think about his precarious spot on the roster. When Bird was activated on Saturday, utility man Ronald Torreyes was demoted in a surprise decision. Many expected it to be the 26-year-old Austin. “That’s a difficult decision that they had to make,” Austin said. “I hate to see it. But I try not to think about it.” Overall, he has produced this year, notching a .222/.280/.500 slash line with a .780 OPS. He has eight home runs and 23 RBIs in 108 at-bats. But those numbers were as a semi-regular. That’s not his role anymore.
As the market was gyrating, D.C. was spinning news from the New York Federal Reserve on household wealth and debt levels. Household debt is at an all-time high, more than $536 billion above the previous peak; right now, the situation is more than manageable. During the first quarter, household debt increased by $63 billion to a total of $13.21 trillion. Student loans continue to surge, climbing 2.1% to $1.41 trillion. In addition, auto debt, which has been growing for six straight years, increased the most (+0.7%) to $1.23 trillion; credit card debt had the largest pre-recession non-household debt level, which declined 2.3% to $815 billion. Household Debt & Credit Developments 1Q 2018 QUARTERLY ANNUAL TOTAL MORTGAGE DEBT + $57 BILLION + $312 BILLION $8.94 TRILLION HOME EQUITY LINE OF CREDIT - $8 BILLION - $20 BILLION $436 BILLION STUDENT LOAN DEBT + $29 BILLION + $63 BILLION $1.41 TRILLION AUTO LOAN DEBT + $8 BILLION + $62 BILLION $1.23 TRILLION CREDIT CARD DEBT - $19 BILLION + $51 BILLION $815 BILLION TOTAL DEBT + $63 BILLION + $486 BILLION $13.21 TRILLION Household Debt and Credit Developments as of Q1 2018 Delinquency improved dramatically as student debt edged up slightly for autos and remained the same in other debt categories. Mortgage delinquency at 1.1% is impressive as median credit score edged higher to 761 from 755. Median credit for auto loans was unchanged at 708. Serious Delinquency (90 days or more delinquent) Q4 2017 Q1 2018 MORTGAGE DEBT 1.1% 1.1% HOME EQUITY LINE OF CREDIT 0.9% 1.0% STUDENT LOAN DEBT 2 9.3% 8.9% AUTO LOAN DEBT 2.3% 2.3% CREDIT CARD DEBT 4.6% 4.7% ALL 2.3% 2.3% Highlights "While housing wealth is at an all-time high, it has shifted into the hands of older and more creditworthy borrowers, in part because of tight mortgage lending standards, an increased amount of available home equity should make the household balance sheet more resilient in the event of a financial shock, though that may not be an option for lower-credit-score borrowers." About 192,000 consumers had a bankruptcy notation added to their credit reports in 2018Q1, the lowest observed in the 19-year history of the data. The number of credit inquiries within the past six months—an indicator of consumer credit demand—declined in the first quarter to 146 million, the lowest level seen in the history of the data. Message Of The Market Thursday was a very interesting session where stocks seemed more preoccupied with the avalanche of news, gossip, and speculation out of Washington, D.C. than economic data and corporate news. The three major indices were all lower, but market breadth was positive. NYSE There were more advancers than decliners and more up volume to down volume on the NYSE, as 151 stocks hit new 52-week highs versus 53 new lows. NASDAQ Also, we saw more advancing issues than decliners with down volume, only fractionally more than up while there were 171 new 52-week highs against 51 names hitting new lows. Trends Certain trends remain in place, including: The Russell 2000, which extended its new all-time record. Energy stocks continue to gush higher, led by refiners and names with exposure to the Permian Basin. (EOG) EOG Resources (CXO) Concho Resources (PXD) Pioneer Natural Resources Also, defense contractors including, Northrop Grumman Corporation (NOC), continue to edge higher Dividend-payers were slammed again as investors rotated out of real estate and utility stocks into treasuries. Conversely, the ten-year yield shot up to 3.12%, its highest level since July 2011. During the session, investors were tough on companies that reported results even when the headlines were positive. Walmart (WMT) and Cisco Systems (CSCO) paid the price yesterday; after the close, the initial reaction to results from Applied Materials (AMAT) and Nordstrom’s (JWN) was to dump the stock. If there isn’t a great call from Applied Materials, it will be a tough day for chipmakers today, and I suspect money will flee back into high-flying names such as Amazon (AMZN) and Nvidia (NVDA). Finally, the stock of the day (and tell of the day) on Thursday was Boeing (BA), which continues to rally from that recent trade showdown dip. If there is a trade deal with China, look for the entire market to move higher and for Boeing shares to fly to new all-time high levels. Today’s Session Equity futures slipping into the open but I was surprised they were up this morning to begin with.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The U.S. House of Representatives passed a Senate bill, last week, largely along party lines, to give those facing a terminal illness the “right to try.” That is, the right to try experimental drugs and treatments that haven’t yet been approved by the Food & Drug Administration (FDA). Of course, Congress doesn’t actually bestow rights upon us. We have always had the common law right — indeed, the human right — to freely seek a path to wellness when we are ill. From time immemorial. Even before the FDA. So, more correctly stated, this legislation, Senate Bill 204, was a way to announce that the congressionally-created FDA would stop blocking our freedom . . . provided we are dying and the government-approved medical establishment has no more licensed hope to offer. The bill now goes to President Trump, who can’t wait to sign it. “People who are terminally ill should not have to go from country to country to seek a cure,” he declared in his last State of the Union. “I want to give them a chance right here at home.” Democrats overwhelmingly disagreed, however. As did the news media. But I mostly repeat myself. “‘Right-to-Try’ Drug Law Offers No Miracle Cure,” proclaimed the buoyant Bloomberg News headline, followed by the subheading, “Legislation aimed at increasing access to unproven treatments could create false hope in desperate patients and bankroll iffy drugs.” “This will provide fly-by-night physicians and clinics the opportunity to peddle false hope and ineffective drugs to desperate patients,” argued Rep. Frank Pallone (D-N.J.). In other words, we cannot trust our doctors (who we discovered we cannot keep, either) or the medical system with its peddling of “false hope.” And what better expert to consult on the ins and outs of phony promises than a 30-year incumbent Congressman? Individual patients certainly cannot be permitted the freedom to make decisions for themselves, they suggest — especially against the wishes of our federal guardians who speak for science and know best. Media reports also seemed to go out of their way to point out that sick patients would still not be able to use experimental, unapproved drugs unless the pharmaceutical company agreed to provide them. No duh — as if most of us imagined we could simply demand the drugs be delivered in unmarked child-proof pill bottles to a warehouse on the outskirts of town, no questions asked. And for free. Oh, you mean, our medical system doesn’t work that way? Well, this bill wasn’t sponsored by Sen. Bernie Sanders. CBS News picked up on the “rights” issue that I noted earlier: “Despite good intentions – and the legislation’s name – right to try legislation grants no rights.” The Courage Broadcasting System added somberly, “Patients would be allowed to try experimental drugs, but nothing in the legislation would make it mandatory for pharmaceutical companies to provide these medications.” The legislation didn’t nationalize the drug companies? What a rip-off! There’s another problem, too. Apparently, the Deep State opposes this law. A National Public Radio report, entitled, “Right To Try Act Poses Big Challenge For FDA,” noted that, “[FDA Commissioner] Gottlieb may soon face his toughest balancing act: implementing the Right to Try Act.” What is there that needs balancing? Isn’t the FDA supposed to actually follow the law? I mean, even if “they” don’t want to. “Gottlieb also raised the concern that under the Right to Try Act companies and others providing experimental drugs to patients wouldn’t be subject to many rules and regulations related to clinical trials, premarket approval and labeling,” NPR explained. “That could preclude the FDA from taking enforcement actions based on those provisions.” Bingo! That would be the point. Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.) likewise charged that S. 204 “puts patients at risk by allowing the sale of snake oil.” But, of course, these patients are dying. That’s already as “at risk” as it gets. Most folks realize that this new law allowing them to try unapproved drugs and treatments carries no guarantee that their lives will be magically saved. That’s why the cause has been dubbed merely “the right to try.” That Democrats and so much of the Fourth Estate are hostile to this smidgen of greater freedom — either because of disdain for the decision-making acumen of Americans or hubristic faith in government bureaucrats and experts — should not be quickly forgotten.
Many Americans know what it’s like to be the parent of a U.S. Marine. Some know what it’s like to send their sons and daughters off to war to fight in the deadliest places on Earth. Others have dealt with their children who struggle with the gripping effects of post-traumatic stress (PTS). But to be a parent who has endured all of this and then become the mother of a son who takes his own life is to belong to an even smaller group. NICKI: I am Simon’s mom. That’s how I start every morning and end each night – being Simon’s mom. I lost Simon to suicide on November 2, 2015. He was a Marine – a proud, “Magnificent Bastard” of 2d Battalion, 4th Marines who served his country from 2004 to 2007 in the most dangerous place on Earth – Ramadi, Iraq. It is staggering to think that there are over 6,800 names etched into stone on the memorials for those our nation has lost during the Long War on Terror. Sadly, some are not memorialized in granite. This includes those who died, and continue to die, long after they return home – committing suicide from the effects of PTS, still fighting an unimaginable battle – a number in the thousands. Try, for a moment, to picture many more of the granite columns if we recognized this loss. The sacrifice of these warriors. The struggles. The families who have no memorial for their sons and daughters, many who fought in combat. Not all Marines who lose their lives are memorialized in granite. Simon’s mom had no idea what joining the Marines meant when Simon signed up during his senior year of high school. She could never brace for the impact of what would hit her, nor grasp the extent of life-altering changes that would take place in the following years. Simon’s decision would affect the lives of all who knew him. Simon always said his Marines were his brothers. Nicki attended Simon’s graduation from boot camp. Now addressed as ma’am and embraced by groups of thin kids with gaunt, clean-shaven faces, Nicki quickly got a crash-course in the philosophy of the Marines. Those she met wore sharp uniforms and were forged into Marines over a 14-week period. These well-mannered kids had changed. They were men. But Simon was still her boy. Simon deployed to Ramadi in 2004. Nicki came to the realization that there was nothing she could do to protect her son. Simon fought in the middle of the deadliest city in Iraq. There was no safeguarding him from the danger. He was surrounded by it – and lived for it. Simon was proud to fight alongside his fellow Marines. In less than 24 months he was ordered back to Iraq. Back to Ramadi. In 2006 the news from Ramadi was bad – blood was shed everywhere in the city. But Simon was with his brothers, and despite his mother’s anxiety, they both knew he was where he wanted to be. When Simon came home from the war, his mom didn’t meet the men he fought alongside – his extended family of “Magnificent Bastards.” She didn’t meet any Gold Star families – but would later, through his tragic loss. She would come to know people like: David and Jennie Sanchez, Gary and Donna Matus, Judd and Jeni Libby, Rita Jerabek and Dianne Layfield. These are the parents of the fallen Marines in Simon’s company. Simon’s pain over losing his brothers became Nicki’s as well. Despite the loss, Nicki was supported by them all years later. “Once a Marine, always a Marine” is not simply a slogan – it’s an eternal bond. The men who fought together understood each other’s pain, joy, fears and accomplishments like no other group could ever understand. They gave, and continue to give, unyielding support without fear of judgment. A bond between those who have lived through hell together can never be broken. Even though the bond was born in hell, the connection is about love. It’s about joy just as much as it’s about sorrow; it means more responsibility. Simon’s mom understood that. A memorial service for Simon was held two weeks after he committed suicide. The Marines gathered at his mother’s home the day before for support. Nicki was stunned by the strength of the bond her son had made with these men that had lasted all the years after combat. They were all there for each other and for her – they were one big family. They ate chocolate chip cookies, drank beer, and the sound of their comradery rose to the roof. Simon’s mom felt that when she walked into the living room to take a break from the noise, Simon was with her, laughing at his brothers. A heartwarming smile broke across her face. In the wake of Nicki's loss, Simon’s friends and family went through his room that held his personal effects, souvenirs and childhood trinkets – trying to grasp one last, tiny piece of his life that meant something to them, to Simon and to Nicki. Nicki kept some of the things. She thought the physical pieces would help her remember him. They didn’t. It was the people that helped her the most. Simon’s mom is a true Marine mom. Even though Simon’s gone, she has been “adopted” by 200 more of her Marine “sons,” who are always welcome to claim a piece of her heart, a piece of her life and a piece of her love. Nicki keeps up with Simon’s Marines and their shenanigans the same way she does with the rest of her family. Her arms and heart are open to the boys she watched become men, the men who fought and loved alongside her son, like no other group she has ever known. Not all Marines who lose their lives are memorialized in granite. But they’re memorialized in the hearts of those who remember them – the families they fought for. Simon’s Mom—Nicki (Litke) Peterson lives in Minnesota. She has a daughter and younger son, three grandchildren, a husband, and treasures them all. She continually supports 2d Battalion, 4th Marines and all of America’s veterans. She just sent her second son, a Cavalry Scout in the U.S. Army, off to his first deployment to Afghanistan.
A Virginia man made the catch of a lifetime on Saturday when he reeled in a 68-pound flathead catfish, beating a state record set nearly 25 years ago. Fisherman Jeffrey Dill said it wasn't easy pulling the "monster" fish out of Lake Smith in Virginia Beach with his $20 fishing rod from Walmart — but he did it. "I put him on the dock, held him down for a minute. He was so big," Dill told WAVY, admitting that he wrestled with the creature for at least 15 minutes. "It was a monster. It was a true river monster." - Chad Boyce, fish biologist Afterward, he hauled the giant fish, who he nicknamed "Big Earle," to nearby Oceans East Bait and Tackle to be measured. A biologist from the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries (DGIF) met the man there to observe the weigh-in. FLORIDA FISHERMAN CATCHES 120-POUND 'GRANDDADDY OF ALL CATFISH' A digital scale showed the fish weighed 68.8 pounds — about 2.4 pounds more than the previous record-setting flathead catfish caught by Mike Willems along the Occoquan Reservoir on May 6, 1994. "It was a true river monster," Chad Boyce, fish biologist with the Virginia DGIF, told WAVY. "It was a big fish that you don't expect to see in this part of the state, especially in Lake Smith. That's definitely a trophy." Oceans East Bait and Tackle posted a photo of the whopper on Facebook, garnering hundreds of likes and dozens of comments from impressed locals. "Saw this catfish when he weighed it in. Could not believe it weighed that much," one man commented. MYSTERIOUS SOUTH CAROLINA FISH WITH HUMAN-LIKE TEETH STUMPS THE INTERNET "Monsta! Pretty Work," another added. "How many ducks that thing got in its belly?" one Facebook user asked. Dill said his family and friends were impressed by his winning catch. "I talked with some of my older buddies and they said some people fish their whole lives and never get close to a state record. It's a big deal," Dill told WFXR. Lake Smith, across Northampton Boulevard, is shallow, measuring only about 5 feet deep. But it's still a fishing hotspot, thanks to its plentiful largemouth bass population. "There are opportunities to catch a citation," the Virginia DGIF says. "The lake also has white catfish, crappie, white perch, bluegill, and flathead catfish."
Supermarkets near Salem, Oregon, were stripped of products on Tuesday, after residents were sent a cryptic emergency alert telling them to “Prepare for Action.” Despite sending the panic-inducing alerts, which read, “Civil Emergency,” and, “Prepare for Action,” the emergency alert system failed to inform residents that the warning was over “algae bloom” that “had made area tap water unsafe for children and people with compromised immune systems.” Before the extra details were provided — over 30 minutes after the original warning — supermarkets had already been stripped of products. “Within hours of the first alert, residents stripped the aisles at one supermarket in the city’s downtown center of bottled water, and a shopping cart lay tipped on its side in front of the empty shelves,” AP reported. “Workers brought out a pallet of sparkling water, which they placed at the front of the store, and told customers they hoped they’d get more regular water in the morning.” One Salem resident, Cole Mahaffey, claimed the alert “almost made me not want to go outside.” “I didn’t know if there was something going on in the area, or if there was a shooter,” he declared. “You just had no way of knowing.” In January, residents across Hawaii were sent emergency alerts informing them that a ballistic missile was inbound. “Ballistic missile threat inbound to Hawaii. Seek immediate shelter. This is not a drill,” declared the warning, which was later revealed to have been a government mistake. The mistake was made by a Hawaii state employee, while the correction for the mistake was delayed due to the Governor of Hawaii forgetting his Twitter password.
Well, That Escalated Quickly: Memoirs and Mistakes of an Accidental Activist Franchesca Ramsey (memoir, Grand Central Publishing) Video blogger and star of MTV’s “Decoded,” Franchesca Ramsey went viral with her “S–t White Girls Say . . . to Black Girls” clip. Here, she sounds off on race, identity, culture and other anecdotes from the life of an accidental activist. The Restless Wave John McCain (memoir, Simon & Schuster) “I don’t know how much longer I’ll be here,” writes John McCain in this moving memoir. “I have some things I’d like to take care of first, some work that needs finishing and some people I need to see. And I want to talk to my fellow Americans a little more if I may.” We’re glad he did, as he offers up a vision for what America can be. Little Disasters Randall Klein (fiction, Viking) In a Brooklyn maternity ward, two couples meet each other just as their lives are forever changed. Slowly, an awkward bond develops and emerges into something far more dangerous. The Glitch Elisabeth Cohen (fiction, Doubleday) In the opening pages of this novel, Silicon Valley CEO Shelley Stone has lost her young daughter on a French beach — but stays on a business call while searching frantically. This sets the tone for this razor-sharp debut, a hilarious send-up of tech culture and the notion of women “having it all.” The Outsider Stephen King (fiction, Scribner) An 11-year-old boy is found dead in the park, and all signs point to Little League coach Terry Maitland, father of two and one of the most popular citizens in town. As the investigation begins, town detectives have to ask themselves if Maitland is who he seems or if he’s been hiding dark secrets. The Mandela Plot Kenneth Bonert (fiction, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt) It’s the late 1980s in South Africa, where an awkward boy named Martin struggles to find a place at an elite private school in Johannesburg. A beautiful American activist comes to live with Martin at his family home, and she makes him see his own chaotic, changing country through a new lens.
1:49 The Drake-Pusha T beef is the messiest in rap history Drake and Pusha T have taken their beef to the next level, after the less famous rapper released a diss track, “The Story of Adidon,” accusing Drake of hiding a love child he had with a porn star named Sophie. The diss track was accompanied by a shocking “unedited” photo of Drake in blackface. 1:09 Paris Jackson refused to sit by and watch Dior's horse show It’s no moonwalk, but Paris Jackson’s epic walkout at a French fashion show has people talking. The 20-year-old left the Dior show early because she reportedly was offended by the treatment of animals at the fashion house's Mexican rodeo-themed show. 3:39 MeToo charges starting to haunt Morgan Freeman Morgan Freeman is experiencing fallout after eight women accused the Hollywood star of sexual misconduct. “I apologize to anyone who felt uncomfortable or disrespected — that was never my intent,” Freeman wrote in a statement to The Post. 0:56 Brad Pitt threw Harvey Weinstein against a wall Brad Pitt came to Gwyneth Paltrow’s defense back in 1996. After Harvey Weinstein allegedly made a pass at the “Emma” actress, Pitt threw Weinstein against a wall. “If you ever make her feel uncomfortable again, I’ll kill you,” Pitt reportedly said to the now-disgraced media mogul. 3:23 Kim Petras is the first transgender pop star Kim Petras could be the next Britney Spears. This is the 25-year-old trans singer’s journey to pop stardom. Her music video for “I Don’t Want It All” has nearly two million views on YouTube. 1:42 HSN exec called out for sending 'disrespectful' email A scandal has hit QVC and the Home Shopping Network. After the two TV giants merged, HSN’s on-air training manager, Gordie Daniels, sent an email to the entire staff that many found disrespectful. HSN is home to Mariah Carey, while QVC boasts Ellen DeGeneres as one of its star hosts. 1:54 Sonja Morgan’s equal-opportunity humpfest on the dance floor What some people call “humping,” Sonja Morgan calls grinding and dancing. While the “RHONY” star had a wild night on the town in New York, dancing dirty with both men and women, she told Page Six that the reports were greatly “exaggerated.” 1:55 Amber Heard is dating Heidi Klum’s ex Johnny Depp and Elon Musk are long gone. Amber Heard has a new beau in her life, art dealer Vito Schnabel. The two were spotted “locking lips” over breakfast at West Village hot spot Sant Ambroeus. 1:08 'He was so hot’: Countess Luann confirms fling with Keith Hernandez Long before she married the Count, Luann de Lesseps dated Mets legend Keith Hernandez. While he told Andy Cohen that the two “hooked up,” the Countess says it was more like dating. “He was so hot, I had such a crush on him,” she dished to "Page Six TV."
Italy’s populist parties would win an outright majority in parliament if new elections were held, according to the latest polls. The anti-establishment Five Star Movement (M5S) and nationalist Lega parties’ first attempt to form a coalition fell apart last week when President Sergio Mattarella vetoed their choice of finance minister, Paolo Savona, because of his eurosceptic views — but a populist government appears to be back on the cards now, with the two parties ready to put fresh proposals to the unelected president following polls showing fresh elections could make them even stronger. Lega, which obtained 17.4 per cent three months ago, has rapidly caught up to M5S, having gained eight percentage points in an IPSOS poll published this week and risen to 25.4 per cent. The survey, conducted for the Corriere Della Sera newspaper, also showed support for the M5S holding firm at around 32.6 per cent. A separate poll, published on Monday, showed Lega surging by 10 points to 27.5 per, with M5S slipping only slightly, down three points to 29.5 per cent. In either case, the two parties would easily command a majority in parliament if they agreed to join forces again. The Mike Shedlock global economics blog has been tracking the polls throughout May, and claims that an “anti-Establishment landslide in Italy looks increasingly likely”. Anti-Establishment Landslide in Italy Looks Increasingly Likelyhttps://t.co/OFAhfnudX4 pic.twitter.com/NkVHJ9PvRi — Mike Mish Shedlock (@MishGEA) May 31, 2018 Lega leader Matteo Salvini was been sounding understandably emboldened before today’s deal was announced, appearing to look forward to a second vote. “The earlier we vote the better because it’s the best way to get out of this quagmire and confusion,” he told reporters on Wednesday. The movement in the polls appeared to contradict claims by Germany’s EU Commissioner Gunther Oettinger earlier this week, that the markets would “teach the Italians to vote for the right thing” and reject populism. The remark was widely seen as a threat, and the M5S called on European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to “defend democracy” and “respect” Italian voters. Mr. Juncker later distanced himself from the comments and Mr. Oettinger was forced to apologise. M5S leader Luigi Di Maio has also slammed the Italian establishment for acting in an anti-democratic way, commenting on President Mattarella’s use of his veto: “We were a few steps away from forming a government and we were stopped because in our cabinet there was a minister who criticised the EU. This is not a free democracy.” The polls’ accuracy could be tested soon is President Matterlla risks rejecting the populists’ latest coalition proposal, forcing fresh elections.
A Queens hospital’s confusion over what to do with the remains of a stillborn baby boy, has renewed the parents’ anguish five months later. Michael Angel Rodriguez was delivered stillborn at the Katz Women’s Hospital at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in Queens on Jan. 6 and to this day has not been buried, say parents Kelis and Neal Rodriguez of Howard Beach. Kelis had been admitted on Christmas Day 2017 with life-threatening pregnancy-related complications, Neal said. By the time Michael was delivered, she had been there for 12 days at staggering out-of-pocket expense. So when staff asked if the family wanted to pay for a private funeral or have his body interred at no cost in the city’s potter’s field on Hart Island, they made the tough choice of having a city burial. “All my attention was focused on my wife — I wanted to get her back on her feet,” said Neal, a retired Navy veteran-turned-web consultant. They thought all was settled until LIJ called on April 26 saying the baby wasn’t eligible for city burial. “I started crying,” Kelis told The Post. “It was like it just happened. It brings everything back. We’ve been trying to move forward.” The city medical examiner’s office said families can request city burial, no matter “the decedent’s age.” An LIJ rep said the hospital mistakenly said Michael was ineligible and “we apologize for any miscommunication or misunderstanding.”
When I hear the mass media talk about President Trump, I have to laugh at how wrong they are on the processes. He isn’t the mogul they presume he is, he’s simply an incredible marketer. He’s learned that he isn’t marketing a topic, a project, or a program. He’s marketing himself. And he knows how to do that successfully. He knows that it doesn’t matter what you think of him, as long as he’s front and center in your world. The more you talk about him, the better he likes it. If you’re putting him down, calling him names, making fun of him, he doesn’t care. He cares that you’re talking about him. And thank you! Keep it up! Social Media Centric Marketing Plan Twitter and Facebook may be liberal machines, but they’re Trump-o-meters. Incredible levels of market prestige have gone into the process of creating a media ballast between mass media and social media. In many cases it’s been an absolute failure, but Trump is winning. Trump wins because he doesn’t care if you delete his comments, or demoralize his message, you’re still sharing the message. The more you share it, even if you’re disparaging this message, the more he’s seen in social media. The more attention he gets in mass media. The key point, he doesn’t have to pay you to talk about him if you’re beating him up verbally, you’ll do that for free. Networking the Marketing Program Active resistance from the left became active campaigning on the right. We didn’t have to focus our energy on winning, all we had to do was focus on being seen, being visible, and being the center of attention. It was so easy… we had Hillary Clinton promoting Donald Trump every time she campaigned, in every piece of literature, on every campaign message, and in every way possible. She convinced everyone through her negative communication that Trump was the man for the job, because he wasn’t wasting his time talking about her. He was busy talking about how GREAT this country was going to be when HE was President. He was right. He’s still right. He’s accomplished some amazing great things. And he’s done it through the constant barrage of hatred and animosity from the left, the mass media, and the hateful rhetoric of Hillary Clinton. Hidden Facts and Numbers Revealed A significant part of Trump’s win were the number of people who showed up to vote for Trump, because they wanted a change that would make a difference and protect their country. Trump promised those outcomes, the people believed him, and they showed up to vote for him. He pushed his agenda forward, by ignoring the ignorance and idiocy of the leftist media, the Democrat plat form, and the anti-Trumpers who pushed him to the back of the poll results. He didn’t care what the numbers said, he knew his base. How can YOU Apply Trump Marketing for Profitable Outcomes? To start with, you can believe that you’re created for a purpose. Know your purpose, and understand that God has place you here for such a purpose as this, and then do your job. Do what you’re sent here to do. Ignore what others think. What they think literally doesn’t mean a thing to you, because you’re the only one who matters, makes a difference, or can change the outcome of your situation. You need to know that there’s no way in the world you’re going to fail. That isn’t an option. Any remote indication that you don’t WIN, is not a failure, but a lesson. Learn your lesson and move on. Win the next round. Realize that ultimately you have nothing to lose. You’re in this game to win it, so you win. You never fail. You win. That’s what you do. That’s who you are. And that’s why you’re here. Trump believes in himself. He’s the greatest. He’s the best. He’s worthy of confidence, encouragement, and motivation. He knows he’s not second best. He’s top notch. What do you believe? What’s your takeaway? Play the game to win it. Don’t take no for an answer. Know how great you are. Know your team is the best team ever. Count on your team to carry your message. Don’t stop. Don’t EVER stop. Know the end game, and get there! That’s it. That’s all you have to know, and you’ve been taught by one of the best marketers on the planet, who is the biggest influencer in the world. Don’t lag behind, he’ll take you with him if you get on board and do what needs to be done. Do it! American Exceptionalism is the most significant single part of business development in this nation. Because America puts God first, and leads with prayer to influence the outcome of the winning game, we’re winning. You can do the same with your business. Focus on God, stay patriotic, and build your business for profit. Let’s do this!
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. From the low-down on high tea to secrets of a great scone, Fox News's Lilian Huang Woo has treats and tidbits to help you turn out a Great British Celebration of your own. LISTEN HERE: Simple Strawberry Jam Ingredients: 900g fruit (blackberries, plums, raspberries or strawberries), prepared weight 900g golden granulated sugar knob of butter Put the fruit into a preserving pan or large heavy-based saucepan. For blackberries, add 50ml of water and 1½ tbsp of lemon juice; for plums (halved and stoned), use 150ml of water; for strawberries, add 3 tbsp of lemon juice (no water); and for raspberries, add nothing. Bring to the boil. Lower the heat. For blackberries, simmer for 15 minutes; for plums, simmer for 30-40 minutes; for raspberries, simmer for 2 minutes; for strawberries, simmer for 5 minutes. The fruit should be soft. Tip in the sugar, stir over a very low heat until the sugar has completely dissolved. Raise the heat, bring to a full rolling boil, then rapidly boil blackberries for 10-12 minutes, plums for 10 minutes, raspberries for 5 minutes or strawberries for 20-25 minutes - don't stir though - until the setting point of 105C is reached. Remove from the heat, skim off any excess scum, then stir a knob of butter across the surface (this helps to dissolve any remaining scum). Leave for about 15 mins so the fruit can settle. Pour into sterilised jars, label and seal. Reprinted from Once Upon a Chef by Jennifer Segal with permission by Chronicle Books, 2018 Red, White & Blue Summer Berry Trifle BERRY TRIFLES MAKE WONDERFUL (and patriotic) summer party desserts. Not only are they gorgeous, they feed a crowd and can be made in advance. The only drawback is that, with all their layers, they can be time-consuming to make from scratch. I save time by using high-quality store-bought ingredients, like crisp Savoiardi biscuits (a.k.a. crisp ladyfingers), cream cheese, and raspberry jam. The result is a dazzling, delicious trifle that can be made in 30 minutes. Use a deep, clear glass bowl or a footed glass trifle dish so the pretty layers can be seen. And don't worry if the layers look slightly uneven or if the layers mix a bitthat's the beauty of a trifle. You can also make the trifle in small glasses as individual parfaits. Serves 8 to 10 1 1/2 lb [680 g] strawberries, hulled and cut into 1/4_in [6-mm] slices 3/4 lb [340 g] raspberries 3/4 lb [340 g] blueberries 3/4 cup [225 g] seedless raspberry jam, best quality 1 1/2 cups [360 ml] cold heavy whipping cream 16 oz [455 g] cream cheese, at room temperature 1 3/4 cups [200 g] confectioners' sugar 1 tsp vanilla extract One 7-oz [200-g] package crisp ladyfingers (also called Savoiardi biscuits) Fresh mint, for garnish (optional) 1. Set aside a few of each berry for topping your finished trifle. 2. In a large bowl, heat the raspberry jam in the microwave for about 1 minute, or until hot and liquidy. Add the fresh berries and toss to coat. Let sit while you prepare the rest of the recipe, stirring occasionally. 3. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment (or beaters), whip the heavy cream until stiff peaks form. Set aside. 4. In another large bowl, use an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment (or beaters) to beat the cream cheese with the confectioners' sugar until smooth and creamy. Beat in the vanilla, then beat in a third of the whipped cream. Using a large rubber spatula, fold in the rest of the whipped cream until well combined (see Pro Tip). 5. Use a 9_in [23_cm] round trifle dish or glass bowl with a 14-cup [3.3-L] capacity. Line the bottom of the dish with a layer of ladyfingers, breaking into pieces as necessary. Follow with one-third of the berry-jam mixture (including one-third of the juices), then one-third of the cream cheese mixture. Add another layer of ladyfingers, berries, and cream, and then a third, ending with the cream; for the last layer of cream, leave a 1_in [2.5_cm] border around the edge showing the fruit beneath. Garnish with the reserved whole berries and mint (if using). Refrigerate for at least 8 hours or overnight before serving. heads up Be sure to plan ahead, as the trifle needs to sit in the fridge at least 8 hours before serving. sourcing savvy Savoiardi biscuits are crisp ladyfingers, usually sold in the packaged cookie section of the supermarket. Don't confuse them with the soft sponge cakelike ladyfingers from the bakerythose aren't nearly as good. pro tip Folding is a technique used to mix a light and airy ingredient, like whipped cream, into a heavier mixture, like sweetened cream cheese, without deflating the lighter mixture. To fold, place the heavier mixture in a bowl and top with the lighter mixture. Use a spatula to cut through the middle of the two mixtures down to the bottom of the bowl. Pull the spatula toward you, scooping up some of the heavier mixture. In one sweeping motion, fold the scooped up portion of the heavier mixture over the lighter mixture. Turn the bowl a quarter turn and repeat the motions, scraping the sides of the bowl occasionally, until the ingredients are well combined. Follow Lilian Woo on Twitter: @LilianNY Click HERE to listen to more FOX & Food podcasts
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. New proposed changes in regulations from the Department of Health and Human Services will close the door on using funds from its Title X family planning program for abortion. HHS's Office of Population Affairs, which administers this program, is a poster child for ill-conceived government policy. How is it, in our nation that cherishes the ideals of human freedom and dignity, that we're funding government bureaucrats to advise low-income citizens -- almost a quarter of these "clients" are black -- about how many children they should bring into this world and when? Despite explicit language in the legislation that created the Title X family program in 1970 prohibiting funding "programs in which abortion is a method of family planning," this directive has been effectively ignored. HHS reports that 4 million individuals are getting services through this program. However, 1.6 million of them, 40 percent, according to the Guttmacher Institute, are receiving these services at Planned Parenthood clinics. Given the millions that Planned Parenthood, the nation's largest abortion provider, spends on lobbying and political contributions, its success in keeping the faucet of federal funding of its activities open comes as no surprise. But now the Trump administration is stepping up to enforce the law, with the positive additional benefit of protecting human life. You might say that our president understands that building a culture of life is a vital part of making America "great again." The new HHS order requires complete financial and physical separation of Title X funds from abortion activity. No Title X funds can be used for abortion. And abortions cannot be performed in any facility in which programs being funded by Title X are taking place. Although Title X counselors will be prohibited from discussing abortion as a family planning measure, they can discuss it when a woman has already decided it's what she wants. Then they can provide a list of abortion providers. But as we think about this, let's consider the bigger question. What is the federal government doing in the family planning business anyway? The Office of Population Affairs describes, among the activities of its "Family Planning Mission," offering guidance "to assist individuals in determining the number and spacing of their children." Given that this family planning guidance is targeted to low-income Americans, who happen to be disproportionately black, let's consider what has happened to the black family since the Office of Population Affairs first began. The budget of the Title X Family Planning program in 1971 was $6 million. Today, it is $286 million dollars, an increase of 50 fold. What have we gotten? In 1970, 38 percent of black babies were born to unwed mothers. Today it is more than 70 percent. In 1960, 10 years before the program started, 2 percent of black children lived with an unmarried parent. By 2008, 41 percent did. In 1960, 61 percent of blacks over the age of 18 were married. By 2008, 32 percent were. I would suggest that government "family planning" is really an insidious, pernicious kind of racism. It's not about improving the quality of life, but rather it is about discouraging black women, and other poor women, from having children and encouraging them to abort their pregnancies. The collateral damage has been the collapse of the black family. This important new HHS proposed rule will take care of the abortion issue. But we need a broader initiative to get rid of the damaging and wasteful government "family planning" business. The nation would be better served, particularly at a time of trillion-dollar deficits, to return the $286 million spent on Title X programs to taxpayers. Black women should be getting their "family planning" guidance from their pastor, not from government bureaucrats.
Canada is a surprisingly pro-market country, with relatively sensible policies involving spending restraint, welfare reform, corporate tax reform, bank bailouts, regulatory budgeting, the tax treatment of saving, and privatization of air traffic control. And we should add education policy to the mix. There are four comparatively admirable features of Canadian schooling. First, as explained by the Vancouver-based Fraser Institute, the central government has no role. …the Canadian educational system is much more decentralized than in the United States. One of the starkest illustrations of the different models at work between the two countries, is the fact that Canada has no federal role, no federal ministry or department, and no federal cabinet position for K-12 education at all. …in Canada, this vital aspect of society is under the exclusive control and authority of the provinces. Furthermore, in many provinces the delivery responsibilities are decentralized to local and regional boards of education. Too bad we can’t say the same in the United States. Second, Canadian taxpayers don’t spend as much money. Adjusting for differences in currencies, in 2010 the United States (public and private) spent $11,826 per student on K-12 education. In contrast, the comparable figure for Canada was only $9,774… the United States spent about one-fifth (21%) more per student in 2010 for primary and secondary education, and…that difference arises from the higher level of government spending. The sad news is that the United States has the ignoble distinction of having the highest level of per-student spending. Yet we certainly don’t get better results. Especially compared to Canadians, which is the third admirable feature north of the border. …on most international tests, Canada performs at least as well as, and often much better than, the United States. For example, the OECD administers the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), which in 2006 gave U.S. students a science score of 489, compared to Canada’s 534 and the OECD average of 500. So why is Canada getting better results with less money? There are probably several answers, but one reason is a Canadian version of school vouchers, which is the fourth positive attribute of the Canadian education system. Five provinces in Canada make provision for funding qualifying independent schools. These are Quebec and the four western provinces: Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, and British Columbia. …Funding percentages vary across the five funding provinces. None offer funding toward the purchase or construction of capital assets. Funding is generally calculated as a percentage of the amount given to the local school district for the operational (recurrent) expenses of educating a student. Funding is generally paid directly to the independent school on a per-student basis. The money follows the students, which means parents in the more enlightened provinces have a real choice. Interestingly, even researchers from the Canadian government confirm that kids in private schools receive superior education. Private high school students score significantly higher than public high school students on reading, mathematics, and science assessments at age 15, and have higher levels of educational attainment by age 23.…In the reading test, private school students outperformed their public school counterparts by 0.081 log points, or about 8% (Table 5). The gaps were slightly larger in the mathematics and science tests. By age 23, 99% of private school students had graduated from high school, about 3 percentage points above the figure for public school students. The private school advantage was more evident in postsecondary outcomes (measured at age 23)—postsecondary attendance (11.6 percentage points), university attendance (17.8 percentage points), postsecondary graduation (16.2 percentage points), university graduation (13.9 percentage points), and graduate or professional studies (8.1 percentage points). Private schools produced better results even after adjusting for the quality of students. …private high school attendance was positively associated with postsecondary attendance and graduation outcomes. Specifically, postsecondary attendance and graduation outcomes were 5- to 9-percentage-points higher among private high school students. …It is well documented that private high school students generally outperform their public school counterparts in the academic arena. Parents seems to recognize where they can get the best education for their kids. The Fraser Institute tracks enrollment patterns and an ever-increasing number of children are attending independent schools. So what’s the bottom line? Simply that what we see in Canada augments evidence from Sweden, Chile, and the Netherlands about the benefits of breaking up state-run education monopolies. And we can give India honorary membership in this club since so many parents have opted for private schooling even though there’s no choice program. P.S. Canada used to have the world’s 5th-freest economy, but it has dropped to the 11th-freest. Still a relatively good score, but Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has the country moving in the wrong direction.
Pat Davis is dropping out. The New Mexico Democrat who made headlines with his “f**k the NRA” ad has decided to back his challenger instead. He’s doing it to help shore up party unity in the race that’s considered a toss up. Current representative for New Mexico’s first district is Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham, who is running for governor; incumbent Republican Gov. Susana Martinez is term-limited (via KOB4): "...this year, progressives have a lot of good choices, and it is clear to me that by remaining divided, none of us will win," said Davis. Davis was set to face Haaland and Democrat Damon Martinez in the June primary but says instead, he will continue to work as a city councilor. "That’s why I’m setting my personal ambitions aside now and asking undecided progressives to unite around the progressive candidate who has the best chance of winning, and who I know I can work with at the City Council and as an organizer to keep pushing back against Trump," said Davis. The primary is set for one week from today, June 5. Davis seemed to have ingratiated himself with the anti-gun Left, positioning himself as a strong ally for the cause. As with many progressives, he was invited on Tucker Carlson’s show earlier this month and was pretty much taken to the woodshed. He also claimed that an AR-15 rifle could fire 150 rounds in 15 seconds. That’s not true, folks. Not even close. Micah also noted that Davis had a drunk driving arrest in 2013, which would have certainly been used in a campaign against him. Whatever the case, he’s done. As Micah wrote, Davis might not know much about firearms, but he does know what it feels like to drive while intoxicated.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Never before in the history of corporate America has a company so welcomed accusations of racism as Starbucks. But that could have been expected given the worldview of Executive Chairman Howard Schultz. Several weeks ago, Schultz announced that on May 29 he would close around 8,000 of the company’s outlets to train employees on how to recognize and avoid unconscious social bias. This was in response to the publicized arrest on April 18 of two black males at a Starbucks coffee shop in Philadelphia. Whatever his ulterior motives, he and other company executives should avoid this route. The training is guaranteed to be expensive. And it will backfire. Corporate executives today know that to keep their jobs and avoid boycotts they must persuade employees to shed supposedly unconscious race and gender biases lurking within their souls. And though the remedy, known universally as “diversity,” promotes teamwork, in practice it constitutes soft totalitarianism, resting on the guiding assumption that to be white and/or male is to be guilty until proven innocent. Even the appearance of unfairness to nonwhite and female employees, customers and shareholders must be averted. The justification for this policy is that human prejudices are so ingrained that we’re usually not aware of them. Thus, companies have set up bureaucracies and hired outside consultants who specialize in eradicating “unconscious biases.” Company officials, whether enthusiastically or fearfully, routinely weave this principle into hiring, promotion, contracting, advertising and other aspects of company operations. The result, however, is less harmony than hectoring. It’s always been that way. If there was ground zero for training and evaluation, it was a highly manipulative elementary school exercise developed 50 years ago at an elementary school in Iowa. From this seemingly innocuous beginning, “diversity” has morphed into a national behavior modification program for morally wayward adults. The zealous teacher who created this exercise, Jane Elliott, in fact, since the Eighties has spoken to many corporations. Adding insult to injury is the cost. A study by MIT’s Sloan School of Management estimated that U.S. corporations in 2015 spent about $8 billion on “diversity and inclusion” programs. That’s equivalent to the total revenue of the 350th largest company in the Fortune 500. “The diversity industry is built on sand,” remarks Sloan School professor Thomas Kochan. “The business case rhetoric for diversity is simply naïve and overdone. There are no strong positive or negative effects of gender or racial diversity on business performance,” he adds. If anything, “diversity” undermines teamwork – and to the detriment of intended beneficiaries. Harvard sociologist Frank Dobbin, after delving into the records of various companies, concluded that diversity training reduces the likelihood of black men and white women finding work. Three situations in particular were recipes for failure: when diversity is mandatory; when it mentions the law; and when it is specific to managers. About 75 percent of the companies with diversity training programs fell into at least one of these categories. Such outcomes are understandable. Nobody wants to work where a stray gesture could trigger a lawsuit alleging racism or sexual harassment. Even executives with a stake in the present system admit as much. In a report several years ago to the Academy of Management Learning & Education, diversity chieftains Rohini Anand (Sodexo) and Mary-Frances Winters (The Winters Group) noted: Many (employees) interpreted the key learning point as having to walk on eggshells around women and minorities – choosing words carefully so as not to offend. Some surmised that it meant white men were villains, still others assumed that they would lose their jobs to minorities and women, while others concluded that women and minorities were simply too sensitive. Diversity enforcers typically respond that the system may have flaws but is sound in principle. Thus, their cure is more of the same. This is especially the case when a company faces accusations from an “offended” person or organization. Starbucks is far from the only company that folds. This March, Swedish-based clothing retailer H&M, stung by charges that a children’s hoodie for sale was “racist,” hired a company insider, Annie Wu, to lead a new global diversity team. And Google, which spent $114 million on diversity programs in 2014, has ramped up unconscious bias training after one of its engineers, James Damore, criticized the company last August for its diversity policies. Google fired Damore, who in turn sued the company for discrimination and wrongful termination. Maybe corporations instead should treat employees as individuals rather than as members of racial or gender groups. Conscious respect for differences would make obsolete the endless search for “unconscious bias.” Carl F. Horowitz is senior fellow at the National Legal and Policy Center, a Falls Church, Va.-based nonprofit group dedicated to promoting ethics and accountability in public life.
Tesla is one of the most popular short ideas around. Yet, it is also an analyst-loved story stock. By many metrics, it seems the company should have failed already. Bloomberg reports Tesla’s $35,000 Model 3 Could Now Cost You $78,000. An analyst stated the original idea of a $35,000 version was ‘kind of laughable'. Fraudulent Claims https://twitter.com/MontanaSkeptic1/status/998513236952735745 Cars for the Masses Not https://twitter.com/lisaabramowicz1/status/998367529226600450 On that amusing story, shares jumped 4% as bullish analysts upped their target based on the rising margins. "Berenberg analyst Alexander Haissl raised his price target to $500 from $470 in anticipation of better-than-expected Model 3 gross margins." Margin? What Margin? The company is losing huge amounts of money on every car it produces. Consumer Reports Cites Braking Issues Consumer Reports says Tesla Model 3 Falls Short of a CR Recommendation. The Tesla’s stopping distance of 152 feet from 60 mph was far worse than any contemporary car we’ve tested and about 7 feet longer than the stopping distance of a Ford F-150 full-sized pickup. CR’s experience with the Model 3’s braking is not unique. Car and Driver, in its published test of a Model 3, said it noticed “a bizarre amount of variation” in its test, including one stop from 70 mph that took “an interminable 196 feet.” “I’ve been testing cars for 11 years,” Car and Driver Testing Director K.C. Colwell said in an interview with CR, “and in 11 years, no car has stood out with inconsistent braking like this. Some trucks have. . . . It was just weird.” Another major factor that compromised the Model 3’s road-test score was its controls. This car places almost all its controls and displays on a center touch screen, with no gauges on the dash, and few buttons inside the car. This layout forces drivers to take multiple steps to accomplish simple tasks. Our testers found that everything from adjusting the mirrors to changing the direction of the airflow from the air-conditioning vents required using the touch screen. These types of complex interactions with a touch screen can cause driver distraction because each act forces drivers to take their eyes off the road and a hand off the steering wheel. The Model 3’s stiff ride, unsupportive rear seat and excessive wind noise at highway speeds also hurt its road-test score. In the compact luxury sedan class, most competitors deliver a more comfortable ride and rear seat. It does have amazing acceleration and the CR staff found the car "thrilling" to drive. But is that what one expects for $78,000? What about paint? Amazingly, paint is included in the price. Musk "Tesla Might Lose Money and Die" With production, 1st you need achieve target rate & then smooth out flow to achieve target cost. Shipping min cost Model 3 right away wd cause Tesla to lose money & die. Need 3 to 6 months after 5k/wk to ship $35k Tesla & live. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) May 21, 2018 Superhuman Safety "Tesla Model 3 will give ‘superhuman’ safety to driver and be ’10x safer than current cars’, says Tesla analyst Adam Jonas" https://t.co/Yk0zRERcx0 It might even brake too... — zerohedge (@zerohedge) May 21, 2018 Safety First Tesla dual motor means there is a motor in front & a motor in rear. One is optimized for power & one for range. Car drives fine even if a motor breaks down. Helps ensure you make it to your destination & don’t get stuck on side of road in potentially unsafe conditions. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) May 20, 2018 Fresh on the heels of "superhuman" safety comes news of another crash. "Man Dies After Tesla Crashes Into East Bay Pond" https://t.co/K8KizY6lHo AUTOPILOT OR BROKEN SUSPENSION? WHICH CUSTOMER-KILLING OPTION CAME WITH *THIS* $TSLA? — Mark B. Spiegel (@markbspiegel) May 21, 2018 Thrilling? Certainly!
Over the past 24-hours, the Iranian backed terrorist organization Hamas launched nearly 100 rockets and mortars into Israel with the intention of slaughtering innocent civilians. Israeli Defense forces responded by targeting a series of Hamas strongholds in the Gaza Strip. This illustration depicts the rockets and mortars that terrorist organizations in the Gaza Strip fired at Israeli civilians pic.twitter.com/kZvxyq5NkW — IDF (@IDFSpokesperson) May 30, 2018 This video shows some of the terror targets that the IDF struck during the last 24 hours pic.twitter.com/ImvH1iczwn — IDF (@IDFSpokesperson) May 30, 2018 A close look at the rockets shows many were developed and sent by Iran. While the Iron Dome has intercepted most of the attacks, one of the mortars landed in the yard of an Israeli kindergarten where children play. Luckily, it was in the early morning hours before children were at the school. Another landed in a civilian home. This shouldn't happen in a kindergarten. Kindergartens aren't targets. pic.twitter.com/mUYaGdYuMv — IDF (@IDFSpokesperson) May 30, 2018 This photo, of a mortar bomb shot by Palestinian terrorists, in an Israeli kindergarten yard not far from #Gaza, is dedicated to all the sanctimonious hypocrites claiming that Israel acts “ disproportionately “. We protect our citizens from the dangerous murderers of #Hamas . pic.twitter.com/JEOkA7MqeW — Emmanuel Nahshon (@EmmanuelNahshon) May 29, 2018 Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus is reporting from a civilian home that was hit by a rocket earlier this morning pic.twitter.com/3HsEyAO9ie — IDF (@IDFSpokesperson) May 30, 2018 A number of Israeli soldiers and civilians have been wounded as a result of the rocket fire. During Operation Protective Edge in 2014, when Israel launch a full-scale military operation to combat Hamas and their rocket war, medical workers at a hospital in Ashkelon were forced to permanently move premature babies into a bomb shelter.
A 7-foot alligator attempted to evade trappers in a South Carolina neighborhood last week by scaling a 4-foot-tall wooden fence. Shari Sebuck watched the wild scene unfold in her Planters Pointe neighborhood in Mount Pleasant. Residents called the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources (DNR) after spotting the gator strolling along the streets and "greeting" elementary school students at a nearby bus stop. "Police were here keeping people off the street and everyone was waiting for the 'trapper,'" Planters Pointe resident Shari Sebuck told Fox News. "I’ve never seen an alligator scale a fence. I took a picture so my two teenage boys would believe me..." - Shari Sebuck When a South Carolina DNR warden arrived at the scene, the gator disappeared into a neighbor's backyard. The gator paused as the warden approached it, tapping a stick on the ground to stop the gator. ALLIGATOR CASUALLY STROLLS AROUND FLORIDA MOTEL: 'MAYBE HE WAS JUST LOOKING FOR THE TIKI BAR' "Every time the gator started to move, the DNR people would tap a stick on the ground," Sebuck explained. "He was reacting to the vibrations on the ground, I suppose, and would freeze. He would then try to move again in a few minutes. Again the tapping." Realizing he was trapped, the gator then attempted to climb over a fence. But the warden began tapping again, bringing the gator back to the ground just as another "hero" trapper arrived to safely catch and transport the creature. Sebuck lived in Florida for 18 years and spent the past 17 years in South Carolina, so she's used to seeing the scaly reptiles — but she had to admit, she had never seen anything quite like this. ALLIGATOR FIGHTS PYTHON ON FLORIDA GOLF COURSE "I’ve never seen an alligator scale a fence. I took a picture so my two teenage boys would believe me since they were at school," Sebuck said. Sebuck shared the "unbelievable" picture on Facebook on May 21, commenting, "This is crazy." The photo sparked dozens of reactions from surprised locals. "Crazy picture... I can’t believe this was in your neighborhood," one Facebook user commented. "It doesn’t look real!!!!" another added. "He is HUGE!!! That is so scary," a woman replied. One user warned people in the neighborhood to keep a close eye on their pets, which Sebuck agreed was a good tip. There was recently a "tragic misfortune" with a small dog in the area, she said. "There’s a lot of new development in our area and I think, like the deer, they are being forced out of their habitat and looking for new homes," Sebuck suggested. "In addition, people, mainly our northern transplants, don’t understand how dangerous they can be and why you should not feed them. I think people are starting to understand." FLORIDA DEPUTY WRANGLES ALLIGATOR STUCK IN GARAGE IN WILD VIDEO This is the fifth gator that's been removed from the neighborhood so far this year, Sebuck said, adding that the creatures seem more "bountiful and aggressive" this year than usual. Alligators become more active as the temperature rises, Tammy Sapp, spokeswoman for the Florida Wildlife Commission's Statewide Nuisance Alligator Program (SNAP), warned back in March. "[They] become more visible and active during spring," Snapp told Fox News. "Their metabolism increases, and they begin seeking prey items." South Carolina residents are asked to contact their local DNR to report any alligators "causing problems."
Add Nebraska to the growing list of states in which legislatures will be considering expanding school choice and charter options in 2017. “Measures introduced Wednesday in the state Legislature would create a new accountability system for Nebraska’s public schools, then allow for private-school vouchers or charter options for students in lower-rated schools,” the Lincoln Journal-Star reports. Read more here.
Microsoft has announced plans to introduce GDPR-style privacy rules for all of their users worldwide. Microsoft reportedly plans to introduce new user privacy rules similar to the recent General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) guidelines implemented by the European Union, according to ZDNet. These guidelines afford users greater control of the data that they share with tech companies, allowing them to request that a company delete their user data or obtain a copy of the data that the company has collected on them, Microsoft plans to apply similar rules to users worldwide. The new EU data laws came into effect on May 25 and applied to all EU citizens, however, Microsoft is extending these protections to their worldwide user base. Julie Brill, Microsoft’s corporate vice president and deputy general counsel, wrote in a blog post: “As an EU regulation, GDPR creates important new rights specifically for individuals in the European Union. But we believe GDPR establishes important principles that are relevant globally.” Brill further stated: We’ve been advocating for national privacy legislation in the United States since 2005. We’re encouraged that some other tech companies are starting to endorse the need to address this issue as well. While debate about how to protect data privacy continues in the U.S., we’re committed to moving forward now to take concrete steps to help strengthen people’s privacy protection. That’s why today we are announcing that we will extend the rights that are at the heart of GDPR to all of our consumer customers worldwide. Known as Data Subject Rights, they include the right to know what data we collect about you, to correct that data, to delete it and even to take it somewhere else. Our privacy dashboardgives users the tools they need to take control of their data. Microsoft’s reaction to the GDPR is at odds with some other Silicon Valley tech companies, such as Facebook who in April moved 1.5 billion non-EU users off an agreement with Facebook Ireland in an attempt to protect these users from being subject to GDPR regulations. Facebook did, however, claim that many of their users were already afforded the rights that the GDPR promises by the company.
Will you try the “Whopper Donut”? Burger King is planning to sell the food item on National Doughnut Day this Friday, it's been revealed. The fast food company dubbed it the “first flame-grilled donut ever” in a YouTube video description. “Some of you might say it’s just a WHOPPER® sandwich with a hole cut in it, and you might be right,” the company said. “But, hey. If it has a donut hole in it, it’s a donut.” PEOPLE CHASE WHEELS OF CHEESE DOWN STEEP HILL FOR ANNUAL CHEESE ROLL RACE That's not all, burger fans: you'll also be able to get another item. “And if you were wondering what happens with that middle cut-out piece (aka “donut hole”), well, it comes as a “free” mini slider,” the burger chain said in a press release. Burger King customers can look for the 'Whopper Donut' in five locations: one each in Boston, Miami Beach, Los Angeles, New York and Salt Lake City, according to the release. You can read more about the specific restaurants here.
NEW YORK (AP) — Kenny Smith is an outsider wanting in. The Detroit Pistons could change that. Detroit needs a new head coach and reportedly has plans to interview the TNT NBA analyst, who has no prior coaching experience. The former first-round draft pick out of the University of North Carolina played in the NBA for a decade, making appearances with six teams. He's mainly known for his six-year stint in Houston, where the Rockets won championships in 1994 and '95. He hung up all his jerseys in 1997 and put on a suit for TV. During his final season, Smith made a pit stop in Detroit. He played just nine games for the Pistons. Smith would not be the first former player to go directly from broadcasting to coaching. Nor is basketball the only sport plucking people out of the booth and plopping them down on the bench; it actually hopped on the trend late compared to baseball. Here's some others who paved the path from the booth to the bench: Aaron Boone (MLB) The current Yankees manager spent seven years behind the microphone for ESPN, analyzing what he saw rather than dictating what he wanted. A desire to return to the field was fulfilled in 2017 when New York offered Boone a three-year contract, with a team option for 2021, and he returned to the pinstriped uniform. During his 12-year professional career, Boone played 54 games for the Yankees in 2003, hitting an ALCS-clinching home run against Boston. He mainly spent his time with the Reds - seven seasons - and joined four other teams before announcing his retirement in 2010. That's when he made the switch to the broadcast booth. Right now, the Yankees (35-17) have the second-best record in the majors. ___ Buck Martinez (MLB) Boone actually went to Martinez for advice, because he made a similar move at the turn of the century: Player. Broadcaster. Manager. Of course, Martinez went back to broadcasting after being fired in his second season. Martinez played for 17 years, finishing with the Blue Jays. He then became part of the club's broadcast team. In 2001, Toronto made him its new manager. Martinez returned to broadcasting with the Orioles. That lasted a couple of years until he took his mic back to the Blue Jays in 2010, where he remains. Martinez is in his eighth season as the team's play-by-play announcer. ___ Jerry Coleman (MLB) Managing didn't work out too well for Coleman, either. Coleman was in broadcasting for 51 years, giving a voice to baseball until his death in 2014. He took only one year off the job: 1980. The Padres made Coleman the team's team manager after eight years in San Diego's broadcasting booth. He lasted a season, leading the Padres to a 73-89 record, then went right back to where he was most comfortable: behind the microphone. There, the former four-time World Series champion covered two World Series and 18 League Championship Series. In 2005, Coleman was given the National Baseball Hall of Fame's annual Ford C. Frick Award that recognizes broadcasters. ___ Mark Jackson (NBA) Enough baseball, back to basketball. Jackson dribbled his way through 17 years in the NBA before calling it quits in 2004. From there, he spent seven years working for ESPN until the Warriors called in 2011 with a job offer. Jackson coached the Warriors for three seasons, leading Golden State to back-to-back playoff appearances, with young stars Steph Curry and Klay Thompson. But then he was fired. Immediately after, ESPN brought Jackson back on its NBA announcing team. He has stayed there ever since and will call the 2018 NBA Finals, where his former team is defending its title. ___ Steve Kerr (NBA) Here's a success story still in the making. Kerr replaced Jackson as Warriors head coach, winning the title in his first season. But even Kerr isn't a stranger to the booth. Kerr had no coaching experience prior to the Golden State gig. He did play, though. He's one of 26 players in NBA history to claim five championship titles. Kerr had also worked as an NBA executive, serving as general manager of the Suns from 2007-10. Since he was hired away from TNT in 2014, Kerr has had the Warriors in the NBA Finals each season, and they are trying for their third title with him. The Pistons sure wouldn't mind if Smith could replicate Kerr's success.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. It was a war of words between the two leading Republican candidates for Governor of California on the Todd Starnes Show. John Cox, who has the endorsement of President Trump, appeared on a segment of the show. And in a separate segment, Republican Assemblyman Travis Allen made an appearance. "(Cox) is a Never Trumper. I think Trump was misled by the establishment set over there in Washington, DC. I fully expect my phone to be ringing on June 6. I expect it to be the White House, and I expect him to say, 'We made a mistake, but now we're fully on board, let's go take back California,'" Allen said. "This is a professional liar. I was not a Never Trumper. I had my questions about the President and whether he was a true conservative. I obviously now see that the President, by his actions, is a solid conservative," Cox said in response to Allen's accusations. Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America! Listen to both interviews here: Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."
Did the Affordable Care Act (a.k.a. "Obamacare") succeed in making health care more affordable for the average American household? Data from the Consumer Expenditure Survey says... no! Although the chart above focuses on what happened after it took effect, in reality, the health care cost curve began bending upward almost immediately after the Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010, leaving millions of Americans who had been promised by the ACA's supporters that it would reduce the cost of their health insurance sorely disappointed. But that disappointment didn't extend to the people who owned stock in the U.S.' major health insurers, such as Centene (NYSE: CNC), United Healthcare (NYSE: UNH), WellCare (NYSE: WCG), Cigna (NYSE: CI), Humana (NYSE: HUM), Aetna (NYSE: AET), Molina (NYSE: MOH) and Anthem (NYSE: ANTM), where the Affordable Care Act has been a government-granted license to print money since it went into effect after 2013... Click here to view the chart.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. When it comes to love and business, Americans like to get advice. Benjamin Franklin's biggest business success came from the publication of poor Richard's Almanack, which he began in 1732. Two centuries later, Dale Carnegie's 'How to Win Friends and Influence People' was published. Carnegie considered the employer-employee relationship to be a sacred bond. Jessica Weisberg, author of 'Asking for a Friend: Three Centuries of Advice on Life, Love, Money and Business' says today's service economy is more like a string of one-night stands: (Weisberg) "You probably perceive that you change jobs and you'll change companies at least a few times in your career. And Dale Carnegie is really setting people up for a kind of permanent relationships with his or her employees." Weisberg says today most companies don't make a big effort to retain their workforce. I'm Carole Zimmer.
Greg's guest today is the Director of the Center for Economic Freedom at Freedomworks and author, John Tamny. They discuss his latest book, "The End of Work: Why Your Passion Can Become Your Job." Tamny's book is available here.
Former House Speaker John Boehner made some very candid remarks Thursday to the Mackinac Policy Conference in Michigan regarding the current state of the Republican party and President Trump’s influence over it. "There is no Republican Party. There’s a Trump party,” Boehner said. “The Republican Party is kind of taking a nap somewhere.” Boehner also opined on Trump’s policy accomplishments and the surprise at his presidential win while enjoying a Bloody Mary at the event. "There is no Republican party. There’s a Trump party. Republican party is kinda taking a nap somewhere," former Speaker Boehner says. https://t.co/HstTNpDeEH pic.twitter.com/3m0Rxdi1Mn — NBC News (@NBCNews) May 31, 2018 He gave President Trump some credit for his accomplishments thus far. “If you can peel away the noise and the tweets and all that, which is virtually impossible to do, but if you peel all this away,” he said, “from a Republican standpoint the things that he’s doing by and large are really good things.” Boehner also commented that Trump was “clearly the most unusual person we’ve elected as president,” and admitted that his win came as a shock. “Donald Trump, who I know well, was one of my supporters, when I was speaker [and] I was having a rough week, Trump would call me, pat me on the back, cheer me up, we played a lot of golf together,” Boehner remembered, “But president, really? Whoa, I never quite saw this. But the guy ran, the guy won.” He speculated that Trump’s win came as a surprise to Melania as well. “I think Donald Trump promised Melania that he would not win,” he said, “she didn’t have to worry about ever living in the White House. It’s probably why she doesn’t look real happy every day. Well, maybe one reason.”
Offset — the Migos rapper who was nearly killed in a car crash two weeks ago — has decided to reward a bystander who helped “save” his life. The man, identified only as Jamar, was apparently walking to work that day when he saw the accident unfold and spotted Offset trapped inside his mangled Dodge Charger with multiple injuries. According to the rapper, Jamar doesn’t have a vehicle — so he had to pull the “Bad and Boujee” lyricist out of his car and usher him to safety on foot. But that all changed Wednesday thanks to Offset, who chose to repay Jamar by buying him a Nissan Altima. “THANK YOU [JAMAR] FOR HELPING SAVE MY LIFE,” the hip-hop star tweeted, along with a picture of Jamar’s new whip. Offset took to Instagram, as well, to show off the Altima — which was gifted to Jamar exactly two weeks to the day of his accident. “HE WAS WALKING FROM WORK WHEN HE SEEN ME CLIMBING OUT MY CAR,” Offset explained in a since-deleted Instagram post on Wednesday. “SO I BOUGHT HIM A CAR.”
On Friday, the British police arrested Tommy Robinson, founder and former leader of the English Defence League, a far-right anti-Islam group. Robinson is a controversial character, to be sure, a sort of Milo Yiannopoulos lite. His chief focus is on the threat of radical Islam, which he believes threatens the integrity of the British system. You don't have to like Robinson. But whatever you think of him, his arrest is absurd by any measure. You see, Robinson was arrested for standing outside a court building and reporting on a trial involving the alleged grooming of young girls for sexual assault by radical Muslims. Now, what would be illegal about that, you ask? It turns out that Robinson was given a suspended sentence last year for filming outside another court building, where a trial for alleged gang rape by radical Muslims was taking place. He wasn't inside the courtroom. Nonetheless, the judge believed he was somehow biasing the jurors. According to the judge, Robinson was sentenced thanks to "pejorative language which prejudges the case, and it is language and reporting ... that could have had the effect of substantially derailing the trial." This time, Robinson was again arrested for prejudicing a case, only he wasn't inside the court building. He was outside. And the media were originally banned from reporting on his arrest so that his trial wouldn't be biased. In other words, Britain has now effectively banned reporting that actually mentions the Islamic nature of criminal defendants for fear of stirring up bigotry -- and has banned reporting on reporting on such defendants. It's an infinite regress of suicidal political correctness. But at least the Europeans have their priorities straight: While it's perfectly legal to lock up a provocateur covering a trial involving Muslims, the European Union is now considering a ban on products like cotton buds, straws and other plastics for fear of marine litter. And just as importantly, it's now perfectly legal to kill unborn children again in Ireland, where voters -- with the help of a cheering press -- decided to lift the ban on abortions until the 20th week, condemning thousands of children to death. This is how the West dies: with a tut-tut, not with a bang. The same civilization that sees it as a fundamental right to kill a child in the womb thinks it is utterly out of bounds to film outside a trial involving the abuse of children, so long as the defendants are radical Muslims. The Europeans have elevated the right to not be offended above the right to life; they've elevated the right to not be offended above the right to free speech, all in the name of some utopian vision of a society without standards. Discarding those standards was supposed to make Europeans more free; it was supposed to allow Europeans to feel more comfortable. But the sad truth is that no society exists without certain standards and Europe has a new standard: enforcement of its "tolerance" via jail sentence, combined with tolerance of multiculturalism that sees tolerance itself as a Trojan horse. The notion of individual rights sprang from European soil. Now they're beginning to die there.
Stop deleting those texts and get outside. Sports/Fitness Day at the White House Wednesday. POTUS stated he would like to reverse the trend in declining sports participation. Planned activities for the attending yutes included throwing the pigskin with N.J. General Herschel Walker. Putting your opponent to sleep with Mariano Rivera. “Naturally” look like the Hulk, Lou Ferrigno or throwing on your two-piece for a little beach volleyball with Misty May-Treanor. Colin Kaepernick was not invited but some of the kids reportedly waited in the West Wing while the anthem played. … Yawn. In what has become a two-team league we’ll take the Warriors over the LeBrons in five. Thursday afternoon in Motown. Angels’ Andrew Heaney allowed one run over six innings to the Yankees on Friday. Expecting more of the same pitching to the Tigers. 20 units on the Angels. In what may be an October preview the Yankees took two of three from the Astros. Luis Severino raised his record to 8-1 after allowing two runs, while striking out 11 over seven strong innings. Win slices our deficit to -594 stottlemyres.
The Philadelphia 76ers launched their own investigation Wednesday after a report surfaced that a top executive allegedly used fake Twitter accounts to criticize players and officials. Bryan Colangelo, the 76ers’ president of basketball operations, was accused in a report from The Ringer of using at least five separate accounts to take shots at 76ers stars Joel Embiid and Markelle Fultz, former general manager Sam Hinkie, Toronto Raptors executive Masai Ujiri and former 76ers players Jahlil Okafor and Nerlens Noel. Colangelo, 52, confirmed in a statement to The Ringer that one of the accounts was his. “Like many of my colleagues in sports, I have used social media as a means to keep up with the news,” the statement said. “While I have never posted anything whatsoever on social media, I have used the @Phila1234567 Twitter account referenced in this story to monitor our industry and other current events. This storyline is disturbing to me on many levels, as I am not familiar with any of the other accounts that have been brought to my attention, nor do I know who is behind them or what their motives may be in using them.” Philadelphia announced that it was investigating the allegations. “The allegations are serious and we have commenced an independent investigation into the matter,” the team said. “We will report the results of that investigation as soon as it is concluded.” Colangelo reached out to the people mentioned in The Ringer report in an effort to clear his name, ESPN reported. He also called Embiid and told the center that tweets mentioned were not from him. “I talked to him and he said that he didn't say that,” Embiid told ESPN. “He called me just to deny the story. Gotta believe him until proven otherwise. If true, though, that would be really bad.” Colangelo is a two-time Executive of the Year Award winner and has served as a top executive in NBA front offices with three different teams – the Phoenix Suns, Raptors and 76ers. His father, Jerry Colangelo, 78, the longtime Phoenix Suns owner, now serves as a 76ers adviser.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. President Trump slammed Democratic leaders at a Tennessee rally Tuesday night, labeling former Gov. Phil Bredesen, a Democrat in the running to replace retiring Sen. Bob Corker, as an "absolute total tool of Chuck Schumer and, of course, the MS-13 lover Nancy Pelosi." Todd Starnes spoke to Tennessee Star founder and political strategist Steve Gill about how Gov. Bredsen seems to be hiding his liberal Democratic views, and how he has earned the nickname "Phillary." "We're dubbing him 'Phillary,' to tie into the Hillary Clinton ties. He's going to try to pretend he's anything but a Democrat, anything but a liberal. He's running a stealth campaign because he can't run as who he is and hope to have Tennesseans vote for him. Marsha Blackburn is proudly as Trump Republican conservative and that's what Tennessee is and ultimately that's what's going to carry the day," Gill said. Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America! Listen to the whole interview here: Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."
NEW YORK (AP) — The Latest on National Soccer Hall of Fame inductees (all times local): 1:15 p.m. Cindy Parlow Cone, who scored 75 goals over an 11-year career with the U.S. women's national team, is the latest inductee into the National Soccer Hall of Fame. Cone was part of the national team that won the 1999 World Cup and a pair of Olympic gold medals. She remains the youngest American player to win a World Cup title and Olympic gold. Cone was a two-time NCAA Player of the Year at North Carolina. Following her long career with the national team, she went on to coach as an assistant for the Tar Heels and later with the Portland Thorns, who won the inaugural National Women's Soccer League title in 2013. Cone joins MLS Commissioner Don Garber and former U.S. national team Goalkeeper Brad Friedel as part of the 2018 class to be enshrined Oct. 20. ___ 11:30 a.m. Former U.S. goalkeeper Brad Friedel was surprised with the announcement of his National Soccer Hall of Fame induction by former teammate Tab Ramos. Friedel was among the players on the ballot for the first time. He joins Major League Soccer Commissioner Don Garber among the five inductees to be revealed throughout the day. Friedel made 82 appearances for the United States over 13 years and was on the national team's roster for three World Cups, starting for the American team that advanced to the quarterfinals in 2002. His club career was highlighted by 17 Premier League seasons, including stints with the Blackburn, Liverpool, Aston Villa and Tottenham. He was hired as coach of the New England Revolution in November. Friedel most recently served as coach of the U.S. under-19 national team and was a Fox analyst. ___ 9:50 a.m. Don Garber is finally a member of the National Soccer Hall of Fame. Major League Soccer's commissioner was originally inducted back in 2016 but put it off so he could be enshrined in an MLS stadium. The ceremony is set for Oct. 20 at the new Hall of Fame at Toyota Stadium in Frisco, Texas. Garber was the first of five new inductees set to be announced Thursday. In an MLS staff meeting in New York, Hall of Famer and former national team defender Jeff Agoos formally welcomed Garber to the 2018 class. Garber was named commissioner of the domestic professional league in 1999. Since then, MLS has more than doubled in size. He is also CEO of Soccer United Marketing, the exclusive marketing partner of U.S. Soccer, and a member of the U.S. Soccer Federation board of directors.
By now most living beings are familiar with the great Warren Buffett. His investment track record is unparalleled. For those unfamiliar with him, a $1,000 investment in Buffett’s holding company (Berkshire Hathaway) in 1964 would be worth over $12 million today. Buffett's genius is otherworldly. Ok, but what if sports were the only path to success in the world today? Buffett himself asked that very question in a Wall Street Journal opinion piece a few years ago. If the economy were sports-based, Buffett acknowledged that he “would be a flop. You could supply me with the world’s best instruction, and I could endlessly strive to improve my skills. But, alas, on the gridiron or basketball court I would never command even a minimum wage.” Buffett’s statement of the obvious is a reminder of how silly is the focus on “grit” as the path to achievement. The latter has sold books in “bestseller” quantities, and that’s too bad. Readers were shortchanged. “Grit” doesn’t mean much at all. No doubt it’s necessary for those merely trying to survive, but in a developed economy the willingness to grit one’s teeth in pursuit of something better down the line is just silly. Better yet, it’s the path to failure. If Buffett had gritted his teeth in order to learn basketball or football, we would never have heard of him. He would be a failed Nebraskan who’d failed because he wasted his life working hard at something that had nothing to do with his skills. Buffett was thankfully too wise to pursue what he wasn’t good at. Instead, he pursued investing. The rest is history. This isn’t to say that what Buffett did was easy. But it was relevant to his skills. Just as Buffett couldn’t do what basketball savants Larry Bird and Michael Jordan once did on the hardwood, it’s a fair bet that neither can allocate capital like Buffett can. Bird and Jordan pursued what amplified their talents, and Buffett did (and does) the same. Bird and Jordan worked endless hours perfecting their craft. Buffett does to this day. Crucial here is that grit didn’t make Bird or Jordan, nor does it continue to make Buffett. Nor will it make the reader. There are lots of things we could do while gritting our proverbial teeth, but most often we’d be wasting our time. True success springs from the pursuit of that which doesn’t require grit. To be fair, none of what’s just been written should give the impression that work isn’t required in order to achieve. Work, and lots of it, is unquestionably necessary to thrive. But there’s a big difference. So often we’re told a variation of “work hard, grit your teeth, and you’ll prosper.” Ok, but how would that have helped readers 150 years ago when work generally took place on the family farm? No doubt many gritted their teeth back then simply because a failure to was the path to starvation. Still, this was hardly a life. Consider it through the prism of Buffett. He wrote about how a sports-based economy would have rendered him an object of pity. That in mind, how many readers would be a superstar if farming were their only work option? If it were, pride would cause many of you to reveal true grit. You’d make it, but oh the misery. No wonder death by starvation was much more common back then. Imagine if your only source of sustenance was endless work in the fields each day…All of your life. Fast forward to the present, and thankfully very few of us have to work on a farm. Thanks to early “robots” like the tractor, hundreds of millions were spared work that required grit. Due to exponentially greater food production with fewer hands, more and more of us were able to pursue work that did not require grit. Important here is that the avoidance of backbreaking work in the fields didn’t mean we avoided toil altogether, nor does it. Automation doesn’t put us out of work as much as it expands the ways in which we can work. To be clear, disdain for grit is not disdain for work. It says here that work, and lots of it, is essential for happiness. Buffett could doubtless write a huge check to every reader of this piece such that all of us would never have to work again. Yet Buffett’s checks wouldn’t bring us happiness. The latter comes from accomplishment, of purpose, and work brings both. The crucial point is that the path to sustained and energetic effort in the workplace is an effect of the robots and automation that some of us needlessly fear. As opposed to putting us into breadlines, these erasers of the kind of work that requires “grit” will enable our specialization. And when we can specialize our efforts, work becomes much more about passion. It’s something we can’t wait to do, and something we don’t mind doing, precisely because the specialization of it means that we’re reinforcing our unique skills and intelligence. To be happily blunt, the path to success is one paved with a lack of grit. In the past there was too much of it, and talented people like Warren Buffett had it suffocated by an economy that rewarded too few skills. Robots and other forms of automation promise smoother paths free of grit, and as a result, exponentially more Birds, Buffetts and Jordans. This article originally appeared on Forbes.com.
NASHVILLE, Tennessee–The New York Times has admitted that it lied about the size of the crowd at the Trump rally held in Nashville on Tuesday night, and changed their crowd estimate after the president called them out on Twitter. In their original story on the Trump rally, the Times claimed the crowd size was only 1,000–a number that everyone in attendance Tuesday night knew was a misrepresentation of the much larger crowd at the Municipal Auditorium to listen to President Trump speak about his support for Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN-07) and her 2018 campaign for the U.S. Senate seat held by retiring Sen. Bob Corker (R-TN). Breitbart News was at the rally and estimated the crowd size to be more than 8,000. Wednesday morning, President Trump called the Times out for their inaccurate crowd size reporting. “The Failing and Corrupt @nytimes estimated the crowd last night at ‘1000 people,’ when in fact it was many times that number – and the arena was rockin’. This is the way they demean and disparage,” he tweeted. “They are very dishonest people who don’t ‘get’, me, and never did!” he added in the tweet. The Failing and Corrupt @nytimes estimated the crowd last night at “1000 people,” when in fact it was many times that number – and the arena was rockin’. This is the way they demean and disparage. They are very dishonest people who don’t “get” me, and never did! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 After the presidential broadside, the Washington Times reported that the New York Times “corrected” their crowd estimate later on Wednesday: The New York Times issued a correction Wednesday about the crowd size at President Trump’s rally after the president challenged the paper’s mistake, acknowledging the audience in Nashville, Tennessee, was more than five times larger than The Times initially reported. In its article online, The Times said an earlier version of the story “cited an incorrect figure for the number of people attending President Trump’s rally.” “While no exact figure is available, the fire marshal’s office estimated that approximately 5,500 people attended the rally, not about 1,000 people,” the correction stated. The Trump campaign issued its own crowd size estimate of 7,500 to 8,000 in a statement released to the press on Wednesday.
The White House is demanding a response from Time Warner and TBS after comedienne Samantha Bee called President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump a “feckless c**t.” “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network,” White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement to reporters. “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child,” Samantha Bee said on her TBS comedy show, referring to a photo that Trump’s daughter posted on Instagram. “But let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices you feckless c**t!” Sanders condemned Bee’s language as well as the “collective” silence from the establishment media. “The language used by Samantha Bee last night is vile and vicious,” she said in a statement to reporters. “The collective silence by the left and its media allies is appalling.”
Minneapolis Star Tribune: Dayton and Legislature head for mediation, with solution far from certain The Minnesota Supreme Court’s ruling in a case pitting Gov. Mark Dayton against the Republican-controlled Legislature threw the dispute back to the state’s politicians with a message that might be summarized this way: Not our problem. Fix it yourselves. “I think the court is clear: They expect the politicians to figure this out,” said Mary Jane Morrison, emerita professor of law at Mitchell Hamline School of Law and author of a book on the Minnesota Constitution. The stakes are high: Without a resolution, the House and Senate will soon run out of money to pay legislators and their employees, following Dayton’s veto of their budget. In its ruling issued at the end of last week, the Supreme Court declined to strike down Dayton’s veto, but also suggested that it led to an “unconstitutional result.” Instead of a definitive ruling, the court in the order signed by Chief Justice Lorie Skjerven Gildea directed both parties to hire a mediator by Tuesday and demanded a report on the status of the Legislature’s bank accounts by Friday. Minnesota Public Radio: Lawmakers grill Public Safety staffers over license problems Minnesota Department of Public Safety Commissioner Mona Dohman apologized Monday for mistakes her agency made in the summer roll-out of the new computer system for vehicle licensing and registration. Dohman appeared before a legislative panel that wanted answers about the department’s efforts to fix the problem-plagued system. Legislators also pressed for assurances that the processing of drivers’ licenses will go smoother when that phase begins later this year. Complaints about the Minnesota Licensing and Registration System, or MNLARS, have been piling up since it went online in late July. Many people have experienced frustrating delays in the processing of license plates, tabs and titles. “We are going to continue work diligently to make sure that this system functions better in the future. We’ve made great progress, but we have more work to be done,” Dohman said during a contentious two-and-a-half-hour hearing held by the House transportation committee. Associated Press: Minnesota Commerce Department recommends against Line 3 pipeline plan Enbridge Energy has failed to establish the need for its proposal to replace its aging Line 3 crude oil pipeline across northern Minnesota and it might be better to just shut down the existing line, the Minnesota Department of Commerce said Monday. In filings with the state Public Utilities Commission on Monday, the agency said refineries in Minnesota and the upper Midwest already have sufficient supplies of crude oil and little capacity for processing more of it. It said Minnesota’s demand for gasoline and other refined petroleum products appears unlikely to increase over the long term. And it said the proposal carries serious environmental and socio-economic risks that outweigh the benefits to Minnesota. “In light of the serious risks of the existing Line 3 and the limited benefit that the existing Line 3 provides to Minnesota refineries, Minnesota would be better off if Enbridge proposed to cease operations of the existing Line 3, without any new pipeline being built,” said a filing by Kate O’Connell, manager of the department’s Energy Regulation and Planning Unit. The proposal by Calgary, Alberta-based Enbridge to replace Line 3, which was built in the 1960s to carry Canadian crude to its terminal in Superior, Wisconsin, has generated strong opposition from tribal and environmental groups. That’s because the company’s preferred route cuts through the Mississippi River headwaters region and pristine lake country where Ojibwe bands harvest wild rice, and because the new pipeline could carry tar sands oil, which they consider dirtier to produce than lighter crude. Business and labor groups back the $7.5 billion Enbridge project.
General Motors self-driving car outfit, GM Cruise, just picked up a $2.25 billion investment from Japan’s SoftBank Vision Fund. Softbank will receive a 19.6 percent stake in GM Cruise in exchange for the investment, which puts its market value at $11.5 billion, while General Motors will retain ownership of the rest of the LLC. General Motors purchased San Francisco-based startup Cruise for a reported $1 billion in 2016 to help accelerate its own development of autonomous cars, and plans to invest an additional $1.1 billion into it. GM Cruise has been testing Chevy Bolt-based cars equipped with the self-driving technology on public roads in some states. One was issued a moving violation in San Francisco in March for allegedly not yielding for a pedestrian in a crosswalk, but there was no contact between the car and the woman. The company is working toward the launch of an autonomous ride-hailing service featuring Cruise-branded vehicles without steering wheels sometime in 2019. The cars will be built at the Orion Assembly plant in Michigan where the Bolt is currently manufactured. General Motors stock was up over 10 percent in Thursday morning trading following the SoftBank news.
Florida Times-Union: Reemployment assistance available for workers out of jobs due to Hurricane Irma Federal assistance is now available for Florida workers or self-employed business owners who have had a loss of employment due to the chaos created by Hurricane Irma. Disaster Unempl0yment Assistance is now being offered by the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity, which is accepting applications for the designation from residents and businesses in about half of Florida’s counties. Northeast Florida counties — Clay, Duval, Flagler, Putnam and St. Johns — are among those that are designated to receive the unemployment relief, a news release from Gov. Rick Scott’s office said Thursday. Miami Herald: Gov. Scott opens interest-free Irma business loans Gov. Rick Scott activated a loan program designed to support small businesses impacted by Hurricane Irma. The bridge loan program will provide interest-free, short-term loans to small businesses that had physical or economic damage in the storm. Business owners can apply Thursday through October 31. Scott OK’d up to $10 million for the program, which is managed by the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity. Business owners must: Have between two and 100 employees, be located in the 67 Florida counties affected by Irma, have been established before September 4, 2017 and demonstrate economic injury of physical damage from the storm. The loans — worth up to $25,000 — will be granted in terms of 90 to 180 days. Tampa Bay Times: Will Hurricane Irma slow Tampa Bay’s booming real estate market? Expecting the worst from Hurricane Irma, Tampa real estate agent Jeff Shelton fled to Atlanta where wind-whipped trees toppled onto two rental properties he owns. Back in Florida, his house and beachfront condo both survived Irma unscathed. That’s the kind of story he’s happy to share with clients. “I’ve got two executives with a major company that are relocating from Cincinnati and they don’t have any concerns about moving to Florida,” Shelton said. “California has its earthquakes and wild fires and mud slides and there are tornados throughout the Midwest. In Florida you know you’re going to have hurricanes but what people are trying to do is be prepared. I think Florida real estate is still very attractive.”
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. BERLIN -- The American response to the history of the Holocaust is changing. So, too, is the response of the Germans. "History teaches, but has no pupils," Antonio Gramsci, a Marxist philosopher, once said. But he was wrong. Pupils abound, but they often do not limit their curiosity to what their teachers teach them. The history of the Holocaust is a kaleidoscope of fact and opinion dispensed among different generations, and rigorous discussion and debate is always a strong disinfectant to apply to both misinformation and disinformation. Updates are required. In our own time of hyperpartisan anger and resentment, when everyone seems to be mad at somebody, there's a resurgence of anger at the Jews in Europe. Physical assaults on Jews average twice a week in France; Jews in Germany worry about open anti-Semitism among migrants and refugees from Syria and Iraq; a new libel law in Poland prohibits attribution of, responsibility for or complicity in the Holocaust to Poland; synagogues in Sweden were targeted for vandalism after the United States announced it would relocate its Israeli embassy to Jerusalem; and English Jews demonstrated in London against anti-Semitism in the British Labour Party. Against this backdrop of unrest there's a new examination of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's reaction to the persecution of European Jews in the years leading to World War II. He argued that the Allies had to focus totally on war strategy before rescuing Jews. The history of that time taught that Americans weren't aware of the dimensions of the destruction of the Jews until after the war was over. That's not true. A new exhibit at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington shows just how much Americans, including President Roosevelt, knew about what was happening to European Jews and when it was happening, and argues by implication that more could have been done to save Jewish lives. Nazi atrocities were in fact widely reported during the 1930s, and the immigration of Jews was in fact suppressed when legal immigration could have let in many more. The New York Times, though owned by Jews, particularly suppressed coverage of what was happening. The Immigration Act of 1924 allowed a maximum of 25,957 German visas annually, and only 1,241 were issued in 1933, when many Jews were trying to flee. By 1939, on the eve of war, many Jews had been waiting for 11 years. President Roosevelt called an international conference in France in July 1938 to find countries to take in Jewish refugees, but this might have been intended to deflect attention from the unfilled American quotas. The conference produced nothing of substance except exposure of American hypocrisy. Alex Ross, writing in The New Yorker, recalls that the German Foreign Office "found it 'astounding' that other countries would decry Germany's treatment of Jews and then decline to admit them." The Germans were brazen in their bigotry, but the failure of so many so-called "sympathetic" countries to accept Jews was fairly brazen, too. In 1939, legislation to admit 20,000 Jewish children to the United States never made it through Congress. Fear of spies, communists and economic insecurity abetted by isolationist attitudes was part of it, but anti-Semitism rooted in public and private attitudes diminished incentives for saving Jewish lives. Breckinridge Long, then an assistant secretary of state, routinely denied visas to Jews and testified falsely to Congress to prevent rescue of European Jews. Fake news was deadly then, too. The Jewish Voice From Germany, a quarterly newspaper published in English in Berlin, asks, when there are no witnesses left to tell their harrowing tales, will "the genocide ... be purely consigned to history or will the Shoah play a crucial role in future society?" It's not an academic question. New attention focuses on a site in the affluent suburb southwest of Berlin Wannsee, where the Reich Security Main Office Director Reinhard Heydrich, one of the most notorious Nazi leaders, invited 15 high-level officials to a conference at a villa in January 1942 and state agencies worked out how to ensure the deportation and mass killings of Jews in Nazi-occupied countries. Moral hideousness hid behind bureaucratic correctness in the killing protocols assigned to specific government agencies. How these perpetrators were protected by their bureaucratic cover is described in "Survivors, Victims, Perpetrators," a book published by the House of the Wannsee Conference Memorial Site to accompany an exhibition, which discusses the chilling details of the division of labor and responsibility. The dehumanizing directives of the "Final Solution" are interspersed with dramatic portraits of aging survivors by photographer Luigi Toscano, giving brutality a human face. The photographer, who exhibited his photographs on the National Mall in Washington, calls his project "Lest We Forget." When history's pupils continue to ask the right questions and not flinch from the pain of the answers, memories might even improve with age. For the sake of rising generations, we must all pray so.
Barrett Wilbert Weed, who plays Janis Ian in the Broadway musical "Mean Girls," poses with Lizzy Caplan, who played Janis Ian in the 2004 film "Mean Girls," backstage at the show. Getty Images
Watch: The Look Of Devastation On This Top Obama Adviser’s Face When He Realizes Trump Beat Hillary
Whether or not a bill to let electric cooperatives begin offering broadband services passes the Tennessee General Assembly this session, the legislation has already had a chilling effect. Aeneas Internet & Telephone recently completed a fiber project in Henderson, where 7,000 residents now have access to gigabit-capable internet. The company will soon have such high-speed internet up and running in Brownsville, which has a population of 10,000. Still, the company’s founder and CEO, Jonathan Harlan, said any future expansions will have to be carefully weighed. “We have other cities in which we want to build in west Tennessee, but now I have to consider whether utility companies are going to be my competitor,” he told Watchdog.org. A bill that would let Tennessee’s 23 electric cooperatives offer broadband services to customers has now been amended to add video services as a possibility, and it’s moving quickly through the Legislature. The legislation, H.B. 529, will be heard in the House Business and Utilities Committee on Wednesday, where it’s expected to be passed and sent to the full House for a vote following a 13-0 passage in the House Business and Utilities Subcommittee. Companion bill S.B. 1215 passed the Senate Commerce and Labor Committee on Tuesday by an 8-0 vote. The bills were created to help expand the reach of broadband into rural areas, but some private providers are unhappy about the legislation, noting that nonprofit co-ops don’t face the same costs and tax structures. “It’s crazy to me the electric companies want to get into the entertainment business,” Harlan said. “That’s pretty far afield from offering low-cost power.” Gov. Bill Haslam added the video component to his Tennessee Broadband Accessibility Act as it moved through the House Business and Utilities Subcommittee. Assistant Majority Leader David Hawk, R-Greeneville, who is carrying the legislation for the governor, noted that adding a video option would increase the chances of broadband being more widely adopted. He said the change “made a good bill even better.” David Callis, general manager of the Tennessee Electric Cooperative Association, said in a statement the bill would help facilitate broadband growth in rural Tennessee. “This legislation will not only help areas with the greatest need for high-speed internet, but it will also create jobs and improve access to education and health care,” he said. ‘Uniquely situated’ cooperatives Haslam offered his act as an alternative to a push to allow municipal broadband networks to expand, and while this bill lets cooperatives offer broadband or video it wouldn’t allow them to grow beyond current service areas. RELATED: Tennessee governor pitches plan for grants, tax credits for broadband providers The Republican governor’s proposal said co-ops are “uniquely situated to assist in bridging the broadband accessibility gap with experience serving areas with lower population densities and providing universal service throughout their territories.” Cooperatives would not be able to use their electric system assets to subsidize broadband services; instead, they would have to create separate standalone divisions. Municipal broadband networks and private providers could also partner with cooperatives under the plan, selling bandwidth at the wholesale level to cooperatives, who would when offer broadband at the retail level to their customers. The act also offers $30 million in grants and $15 millions in tax credits on the purchase of network equipment to help telecom providers build and expand broadband in rural Tennessee. Harlan said there are dozens of smaller providers like his business working to expand broadband across Tennessee, but because they don’t have the lobbying presence of a Comcast or an AT&T they’re “invisible” to the legislature. Aeneas is based in Jackson, and has a strong footprint in areas within an hour radius around the city. He’s heard that other providers have been cautious about growing in rural Tennessee in the past few years as legislative talk has centered around allowing municipal broadband to expand and they feared competing against the government. Now, those providers may have to compete against co-ops instead, which have received millions in grants from governments over the years to build and maintain electric monopolies and also pay less in property taxes. “This displaces capital allocation and private enterprise that grows to serve the market demand,” Harlan said. He’s concerned that the bill doesn’t explicitly state co-ops must provide universal broadband service, allowing them to potentially cherry pick customers, potentially targeting business and industry and avoiding harder-to-reach areas. “They’ll leave the farmer — unless he’s on the co-op board — unserved,” Harlan said. Crossing state lines William Haines, owner and CEO of America Internet & Communications in Cleveland in eastern Tennessee, told Watchdog he has the same concerns about cherry picking. “If they really want to help the underserved they should put teeth in [the bill] so they have to serve everybody,” he said. Haines’ business offers wireless broadband services across five Tennessee counties, beaming signals from 40 towers situated across east Tennessee. Customers get download speeds between 10-40 megabits per second, depending on their distance from the towers. He was looking to expand into another area, but is now taking a wait-and-see approach. “There’s one community I wanted to go into, but I’m scared because I don’t know what’s going to happen,” Haines told Watchdog. His business was based out of Chattanooga until the taxpayer-subsidized Electric Power Board “ran us out,” he said. Wireless services like those offered by America Internet & Communications could be a solution to the rural broadband problem with their ability to beam signals through the air rather than through expensive-to-lay fiber, but Haines said given the legislative attitude in his home state, he’s looking to expand into the Peach State where he’s already added one tower. “If Tennessee keeps doing what they’re doing I’m going to cross state lines to Georgia,” he said. Not all private providers have spoken against Haslam’s proposal. AT&T spokesman Joe Burgan called the bill “an innovative approach to rural broadband expansion” in a statement he sent to Watchdog, and said the company “support[s] the measure as amended.” “The governor’s proposal builds on the work and investment of private providers like AT&T to help bridge the gap to those remaining unserved areas,” he said. That company got slammed by Rep. Dan Howell, R-Georgetown, who released a statement criticizing AT&T for helping to kill the 2016 bill that would have allowed municipal broadband expansion. “I believe it’s unfair that AT&T of Tennessee received $156 million in federal subsidies in September 2015 to provide broadband to the rural areas of Tennessee, while using their deep pockets and 14 lobbyists to kill HB 1303 and, as a result, any competition to their and the other big telecoms’ monopoly,” Howell said. Burgan told Watchdog the company will continue its “aggressive fiber deployment” in the Volunteer State. “AT&T’s effort to connect more than 81,000 unserved rural locations with fixed wireless broadband is well underway, an initiative that will substantially reduce the number of households with limited broadband access,” he said. Johnny Kampis reports on national issues for Watchdog.org. Contact him at jkampis@watchdog.org and on Twitter.
Recently when I stood alongside President Trump in Michigan and declared “this is Trump country” in front of 15,000 people, I witnessed first-hand our president interacting with thousands of American workers. I truly believe that no one cares more about standing up and fighting for American workers than our president. In recent months, President Trump took courageous action with the Section 232 relief to save tens of thousands of American jobs by imposing tariffs on foreign aluminum and steel imports. Prior to President Trump issuing the Section 232 relief, global overcapacity of aluminum directly threated U.S. national security, negatively impacted American workers and caused aluminum smelters across America’s heartland to shut down. This led to thousands of American workers losing jobs, decimating communities across the United States. Despite President Trump’s strong decisive leadership, America’s allies and economic foes are now jockeying for exemptions from these tariffs – threatening to undermine their effectiveness. President Trump is expected to make a decision on exemptions on June 1, and I am confident that he will negotiate a winning solution that is in the best interests of American workers. Russia, the European Union, the Middle East, and Australia work hand in hand with Chinese aluminum producers in the global marketplace. The Chinese will find any way to cheat the system and avoid tariffs, by moving Chinese product through countries aligned with the United States or making strategic acquisitions of facilities in countries that are not subject to the same scrutiny. The Chinese will find any way to cheat the system and avoid tariffs, by moving Chinese product through countries aligned with the United States or making strategic acquisitions of facilities in countries that are not subject to the same scrutiny. For instance, Australian producers, some of whom are partially owned by the Chinese, do not need an exemption to survive or thrive. It’s interesting – like other countries, Australia consumes almost none of the aluminum it produces. If completely exempted, all of Australia’s aluminum exports will be targeted at the United States. Even now, as Australia attempts to position itself for a permanent exemption from President Trump’s 232 tariffs, imports of primary aluminum from Australia skyrocketed by 95 percent in recent months after already increasing by over 1000 percent the year before. If this situation continues without either applying the Section 232 tariffs to Australia or placing a quota on their shipment volumes, the Australian industry will completely replace the U.S. industry. The Trump administration will not allow American workers to lose out, while the European Union, the Middle East, Australia or others game the system. President Trump will always put “America First,” at home and abroad and I applaud him for his visionary leadership on U.S. trade policy. As the Trump administration works to make tariffs effective and decrease the likelihood of countries cheating the system there are two options: 1) broad implementation (i.e. no special treatment); or 2) exemptions with quotas. While not ideal, quotas at least ensure that countries can’t increase their exports from previous levels by becoming a backdoor entry point for other countries. If any country is permanently exempted from the 232 tariff, whether it be Canada, Mexico or others, a quota needs to be put in place to ensure that the benefits of the relief flow to the United States, not foreign steel or aluminum industries. Under President Trump’s leadership, things are finally looking up for hard-working Americans. Smelters are restarting in Western Kentucky, Missouri and across the country with thousands of new American jobs being created. President Trump is keeping his commitment to American workers that he so clearly spelled out on the campaign trail. The fearmongering from the fake news media and free-market zealots misses the mark on why President Trump is fighting for these tariffs. The claims of massive job loss and economic hardship from the tariffs are unsupported and frankly ridiculous. The “America First” agenda championed by President Trump will ensure that the domestic aluminum industry can compete on the global stage and fight back against illegal trade practices and countries that cheat. Too much is at stake for America to not take a stand. While the European Union, the Middle East, and Australia vigorously seek to represent their own national interests, we too should represent ours. Come June 1, I am confident that President Trump will negotiate from a position of strength and put “America First” as we work together to Make America Great Again.
President Donald Trump spoke with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Thursday, the day that the United States announced tariffs on Canada, and told Trudeau that there would be a “fair deal” or “no deal at all” on NAFTA. “The United States has been taken advantage of for many decades on trade. Those days are over,” President Trump said in a Thursday evening statement on the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Trump conveyed this message to Trudeau during a Thursday phone call, saying, “The United State will agree to a fair deal, or there will be no deal at all.” Thursday morning President Trump announced that the United States would reinstate previously delayed section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum from Canada, Mexico, and the European Union. The U.S. had delayed the national security-based tariffs on Canada and Mexico while the three nations renegotiated the NAFTA trade deal. “The current NAFTA is a seriously flawed trade deal, and the Trump Administration is committed to getting the best possible trade agreement for all Americans,” U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a May 14 statement regarding progress on the “intensive, continuous discussions to renegotiate NAFTA.” There have been seven rounds of NAFTA negotiations since August 2017. After the seventh round of trade negotiations, Lighthizer said that the negotiations “have not made the progress that many had hoped in this round.” He expressed hope that they would reach agreements “on new issues like digital trade, labor and environment, intellectual property, and much more” and urged that negotiations move more quickly. Last week Trump said Canada and Mexico “have been very difficult to deal with” in the trade negotiations. He called the two countries “spoiled” by bad trade deals made under previous administrations. Trump added, “I will tell you – in the end, we win.” Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana
Parkland, Florida school shooter Nikolas Cruz recorded a trio of chilling cell phone videos sometime before the massacre, detailing the bloodshed he was about to unleash. “My name is Nik and I’m going to be the next school shooter of 2018,” Cruz says calmly in one of the undated videos, released Wednesday by the Broward State Attorney’s Office. “My goal is at least 20 people with an AR-15. … Location is [Marjory] Stoneman Douglas [High School] in Parkland, Florida.” “You’re all going to die,” he added, mimicking the sounds of gunshots. Armed with that AR-15-style assault rifle, Cruz stormed into his former high school on Valentine’s Day and carved a path of carnage through the halls, killing 17 students and staff, and wounding another 17. He evaded cops for about an hour after the spree, but was eventually nabbed and has confessed to the attack. His cell phone was confiscated during the arrest, and the clips it contained made public on Wednesday. As the prosecutor’s office assembles its case against the 19-year-old mass murderer, the disturbing videos may help confirm a crucial element: premeditation. “Here’s the plan. I’m going to take Uber in the afternoon before 2:40 p.m.,” Cruz rambles in one clip, apparently seated on a bench. “From there, I’ll go onto the school campus, walk up the stairs, load my bags, and get my AR and shooting people at the main courtyard and people will die.” Cruz indeed arrived at the school in an Uber, and opened fire just after 2:20 p.m. “It shows premeditation,” Peggy Brill, former head of the Miami-Dade State Attorney’s Office, told The Miami Herald. “It wasn’t a spur of the moment decision to shoot.” Cruz faces 17 counts of murder and 17 counts of attempted murder in a case that gripped the nation and gave renewed fire to the gun control debate. Cruz’s wording in another clip seems to suggest it may have been filmed the day of the massacre. “Today is the day, the day it all begins,” he said. “All the kids in the school will run in fear and hide. From the wrath of my power, they will know who I am.” Cruz’s haunting words paint a portrait of a rage-filled teen lashing out after a life of ”seclusion and solitude.” “I hate everyone and everything,” he said. “With the power of my AR, you will all know who I am.” Cruz ended the clip by proclaiming his love for a woman he identified only by her first name — and seemingly indicating that he didn’t expect to survive the rampage. “My love for you, Angie, will never go away,” he said. “I hope to see you in the afterlife.”
A Montana Democratic state representative wants a statewide charter school system, but the Democratic governor does not appear to be on board. Rep. Jonathan Windy Boy introduced legislation to set up a seven-member commission to run the system. But Siri Smillie, an education policy adviser to Gov. Steve Bullock, testified against the bill at a House Education Committee hearing earlier this week. Windy Boy said he has seen too many students, especially on reservations, fail in the existing public school system. Read more here.
Where Long Island splits in two at the Peconic River — technically at the township of Riverhead — there’s both a physical and a psychological divide. The South Fork is home to the tony Hamptons, where dressing for dinner is an art form; the North Fork, meanwhile, has for generations remained the stomping ground of farmers, fishermen and, in the past 30 years, winemakers. Now, acclaimed chefs and food influencers are quietly planting flags on these fertile grounds, from Southold to Orient Point. “Top Chef” judge Tom Colicchio — who originally oversaw the kitchen of Gramercy Tavern and now leads his own Craft restaurant empire, as well as the menu at Temple Court and the new Alley Cat in the Beekman Hotel — was an early arrival, buying a circa-1850 home in Mattituck 17 years ago. “My wife spent summers in Martha’s Vineyard, and I spent summers at the Jersey Shore, so we split the difference,” he tells Alexa. In the nearly two decades since they set down roots out east, the area has changed dramatically — but not intrinsically. “There are a lot of people here who had a career in banking or management consulting and wanted to bail out of the city,” Colicchio explains, and those folks are now putting their energy toward North Fork food projects. “It used to be just cauliflower and broccoli and potatoes. Now Holly Browder of Browder’s Birds has the best chickens I’ve ever eaten, Sang Lee is doing organic farming, there are at least three different oyster growers, people are planting hops for the local brewers.” He goes to his North Fork house every weekend he can during the year and decamps there full time starting in June. He cooks for friends and neighbors and lets his kids run as wild as Browder’s chickens. “It’s the kind of pace and community we thought was long gone,” he says. Colicchio might run into fellow North Forkers like Bon Appétit editor Adam Rapoport or President Obama’s former chef, Sam Kass, but mostly he doesn’t leave his garden except to buy cheese at the Village Cheese Shop or hit up his former colleague Claudia Fleming’s food truck, which roams the region. “Once I’m out in Mattituck for the summer, I’m in shorts and T-shirts and flipflops,” he admits. Most of us know each other already, so that makes it nice. - Andrew Carmellini Fleming followed her boss (she won the James Beard Award for outstanding pastry chef in 2000, while working at Gramercy Tavern) out east and never left. She and her late husband bought a home in Southold in 2004 and soon after opened the four-guestroom North Fork Table & Inn, undeniably the social hub of the area. “When we first came, there were really no restaurants catering to the inweries,” Fleming says. “So it seemed like a perfect pairing.” In the past several years, only a few other restaurants have opened, but she can source food from new local cattle ranches, pig farms and goats making milk for cheese. “It’s so exciting. From 8 Hands Farm and Deep Roots Farm, we get whole animals. McCall, one of the better wineries, started raising 100-percent grass-fed beef. On Friday nights, we take our food truck to McCall winery and serve hamburgers from their beef. It’s super fun and very intimate. You meet all the other people who have slowed down and recognize the benefits of this prospering community.” Indeed, Fleming is being honored by Dan’s Chefs of the North Fork on July 7 for her commitment to the region. The dinner is being hosted at the Halyard, one of the few other sit-down restaurants to open in the North Fork, set inside the waterfront Sound View hotel in Greenport. The Halyard launched last fall, overseen by chef Galen Zamarra, also a James Beard Award winner and owner of Mas (Farmhouse) in the West Village. He’s been doing a house-share in Southold since 2003. “The restaurant scene then was just bad. It wasn’t even local food — it was frozen!” he recalls. But he could ride his bike from vineyard to vineyard and farm to farm. He’s still a fan of the honor-system farm stands and the Fifth Street Beach, and will occasionally go out to dinner with his wife and two kids at places like 1943 Pizza Bar for woodfired pies or Caci for Italian. He’s excited about Peconic Escargot farm’s PawPaw and chef Frank DeCarlo’s pop-ups. “It is a very quiet, leisurely life,” he says. Lots of Zamarra’s food-world friends have also fallen in love with that laid-back lifestyle. “Most of us know each other already, so that makes it nice,” says chef Andrew Carmellini, owner of Manhattan’s the Dutch and Locanda Verde — and a Cutchogue home he bought three years ago. “I’m buying lambs that are pastured down the street and chickens for my personal use and having people over for dinner.” He just partnered with local purveyor Farm Beyond to grow all the vegetables for two of his city restaurants, on just two acres. “I have been living in the city most of my life, so I’m less the patient farmer than I am the feverish eater. We’re harvesting already,” he says. Look for North Fork-fresh tomatoes, peppers and eggplant at Leuca and Little Park in early June. Just don’t expect the area to become the “next Brooklyn,” as so many publications proclaim. “It’s a different kind of vibe,” notes Carmellini. “We are generally socializing at the house as opposed to going out. We go to the beach, where we have a fire pit and kayaks, and we do a lot of bike riding.” One thing you’ll never see: a future Carmellini restaurant near the North Fork Jitney stop. “Every year a piece of property comes up, and someone asks if I’ll open something, but I’m all business in town,” says the chef. “So when I’m out here, I don’t want to worry about making brunch.”
Wall Street rose on Wednesday, with gains in energy and banking stocks fueling the recovery from a steep selloff driven by Italy’s political crisis. A renewed attempt to form a coalition government in Rome by the two anti-establishment parties, the 5-Star Movement and League, raised hopes that Europe’s third-largest economy could avoid a new election. A surprise breakthrough to form a hung government would ease uncertainty, but still usher in a coalition planning to ramp up spending in the heavily indebted nation and push for changes to European Union and euro-zone fiscal rules. “It’s a rebound from yesterday on hopes that there may be some agreement on forming a government. But these kind of perceptions are going to bounce back and forth,” said Scott Brown, chief economist at Raymond James in St. Petersburg. “Markets are a little bit fragile because it’s a holiday week. That could lead to some sharp moves either way.” At 10:04 a.m. EDT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 115.15 points, or 0.47 percent, at 24,476.60, the S&P 500 was up 14.72 points, or 0.55 percent, at 2,704.58 and the Nasdaq Composite was up 34.00 points, or 0.46 percent, at 7,430.60. The S&P 500 and the Dow on Tuesday posted their first 1 percent drop in May as investors scurried for safety assets such as US bonds on fears of political instability in Italy. On Wednesday, 10 of the 11 major S&P sectors rose, led by a 1.5 percent gain in energy index .SPNY. Bank stocks, which were the worst hit Tuesday, recovered with the S&P financial index rising 1.1 percent. The Federal Reserve is set to consider a proposal to modify the “Volcker Rule” at 3 p.m. ET. The proposal, which marks another step by Trump administration regulators to ease banking rules, is aimed at preventing lenders from making market bets while accepting taxpayer-insured deposits. The S&P technology gained 0.4 percent, boosted by a 2.1 percent jump in shares of cloud-based business software maker Salesforce.com that reported quarterly profit above estimates and lifted full-year forecast. HP rose 2.6 percent after posting quarterly revenue above estimates and raising full-year profit forecasts. Investors also kept a wary eye on the developments around tariffs and trade. In an unexpected change in tone, the United States said late Tuesday it could still impose tariffs on $50 billion of imports from China unless it addressed the issue of theft of American intellectual property. China said Wednesday it was ready to fight back if Washington was looking for a trade war, days ahead of a planned visit by US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners for a 4.32-to-1 ratio on the NYSE and for a 3.64-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq. The S&P index recorded 15 new 52-week highs and one new low, while the Nasdaq recorded 124 new highs and 10 new lows.
In 2014, activist-investor Barry Rosenstein dropped $147 million on an 18-acre waterfront property in East Hampton, at the time the most money ever spent on a home in America. But that record — at least in the Hamptons — may soon be broken. Jule Pond in Water Mill is currently asking $175 million — now the most expensive house for sale in the Hamptons, and on the East Coast, for that matter. The massive, 20,000-square-foot compound resides on a 42-acre strip of land bordered by lakes on each side and the Atlantic to the rear. While the house itself has pedigree — it belonged to Henry Ford’s family, as a piece of their 235-acre “Fordune” retreat — like everywhere else in the area, you’re really paying for the land. It boasts the largest piece of private ocean frontage in the Hamptons, according to Bespoke Real Estate’s Michael Cantwell, whose firm is marketing the pricey estate. “The views are completely panoramic. Every direction you look, you are looking at water,” Cantwell says. “It’s not over-the-top inside. There aren’t bowling alleys or anything. But the scale of the property is really unusual.” Meanwhile, 1080 Meadow Lane in Southampton (boasting the second-highest price on the market) is asking $150 million. While the estate is “just” 14 acres of prime beachfront (currently configured as three separate lots), it also offers two houses (the larger of which tops out at 12,000 square feet), as well as what is certainly one of the Hamptons’ most coveted amenities: two private oceanside fairways with golf houses. Fore!
He thought his politics could save him. He’s doing an anti-National Rifle Association movie; cut him some slack, right? Sadly, for a lot of liberals, that’s their go-to when one of their allies gets in trouble. He votes the right way, or as the right opinions, he’s cool. Well, this year, women in the workplace had enough, spilling their experiences with sexual harassment at work. Some cases involved inappropriate remarks and groping, while others went as far as sexual assault. For former Hollywood big shot Harvey Weinstein, it’s the latter. He was indicted on rape charges. Actresses Asia Argento, Rose McGowan, and Paz De La Huerta have all alleged Weinstein had raped them. Since his history of bad behavior has been exposed, he’s lost his production company and has been expelled from Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (via Reuters): Movie producer Harvey Weinstein was indicted on Wednesday on charges of rape and a criminal sexual act, Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance said, the first case to emerge from a slew of sexual misconduct allegations against him. “This indictment brings the defendant another step closer to accountability for the crimes of violence with which he is now charged,” Vance said in a statement on the charges against the disgraced 66-year-old co-founder of the Miramax film studio and the Weinstein Co. The grand jury indictment follows his arrest and court appearance last Friday on charges related to two among about 70 women who have accused him of sexual misconduct, all of which Weinstein has denied. Ben Brafman, the head of Weinstein’s legal team, said his client would plead not guilty and defend himself against the charges. If convicted on the most serious charges, Weinstein could face between five and 25 years in prison. Weinstein turned himself in last Friday. The Manhattan District Attorney’s office was preparing arrest warrants, but he decided to turn himself over to the police.
American policing today is in a state of slow-motion collapse, struggling mightily to attract new officers — no matter how low standards are dropped. Under sustained assault by the City Council, pundits and self-styled civil-liberties advocates, a new generation of New York City cops is being conditioned to avoid showdowns with civilians, especially where coercion or force is called for. We could have saved the costly investment in body cameras by explicitly telling the cops two words: “Do nothing.” Officers who do more engagement than what is absolutely required have been threatened by HQ that they’ll find themselves on a list of “troublemakers.” Thousands have, or will soon, head for the exits, telling all within earshot to avoid police work as a career. In many parts of the country, the police have gone to ground. Racked by gun violence and pervasive fear, Detroit managed to get through 2016 without police shooting anyone — even as murders continued to rise. Police paralysis is great news for the elite critics of the cops but terrible news for the people dragooned in that town — it likely signals that the police are taking the long and winding road around trouble of all kinds. In Chicago, the street cops’ ethos is “go fetal, stay fetal.” In Philadelphia, as murders soar, cops are the ones in prosecutors’ crosshairs. It is crystal clear what was long suspected: Costly Justice Department intervention in local police departments expedited the end of hands-on policing. Uncounted millions are being spent on “community policing” — where officers socialize with a relatively tiny cohort of community residents, some seeking improper benefits from the relationship — when a lot of that money could be better used on enhanced overnight and outer-borough patrols, reducing response times and better training officers to diagnose and handle the 5 million calls that pour in to the NYPD each year. After all, most serious crimes in New York go unsolved, as they do throughout the nation. We must resist the trap of presentism — conditions at present are acceptable and will be thus so in the future. Rearranging policing so that it revolves around fault-finding is going to have grave consequences in communities where the police are needed most. But all over the country, policing is now about avoiding all but the most essential, life-and-death interactions. Two recent videos of public officials being pulled over, one in New Jersey and the other in Baltimore, were seen as triumphs for the officers who remained calm and professional in the midst of a shower of abuse and name-dropping. The truth, however, is that the proliferation of video recording of cops’ every interaction only will increase officers’ timidity. That will look like self-restraint in some cases, but overall it’ll put law enforcement on the defensive and dull cops’ instincts. String together a series of adversarial videos, and almost every officer can find him or herself fast-tracked to trouble. The new-era calculation for the police is: Conflict is the quickest path to extinction. Some of this was wholly predictable when people who harbor disdain for the police and resent law enforcement are allowed to pose as reformers. Without a debate of any kind, they have been able to tear down the institution of American policing across the country. Scratch the surface in trendy, uber-safe New York neighborhoods and you will hear public safety and disorder concerns from more than a few. Aggressive panhandling, unreported petty and retail thefts, noise and disorder complaints and a feeling of insecurity on mass transit accompany complaints by those in public housing and poorer communities that violence is never too far away. There’s no denying that aggressive policing has led to abuse. But often overlooked in the debate was that it was an accomplishment to have police departments where cops patrolled with windows rolled down, engaged those who imperiled community safety and serenity, and where those bent on harming others were forced to look over their shoulders. This era of policing, cops grappling with festering issues, replaced the 1970s and 1980s police paralysis that saw millions leave cities behind as officials themselves acknowledged they were unable to protect their citizenry. The result of all this is that policing is hurtling to a whole new, uncharted and largely unchosen place. One thing we know from the past is that whether dealing with terrorism or day-to-day issues of crime and disorder, blindly depending on hope can have dangerous, even devastating consequences. Eugene O’Donnell, a former NYPD cop, is a professor of law and police studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
One day after late-night comedian Samantha Bee used a vulgar slur to address Ivanka Trump, two companies have announced they are pulling their sponsorship from Bee’s program on TBS. Autotrader and State Farm announced Thursday their respective decisions to stop advertising on “Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.” “The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company,” Autotrader announced via Twitter. “As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of ‘Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.’” Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal. The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company. As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee. — Autotrader (@AutoTrader_com) May 31, 2018 State Farm pulled its ads just a few hours later, saying in a statement to TheWrap, “We have asked TBS to suspend our advertising in the program and are reviewing any future placements. We constantly review programs to ensure alignment to our programming guidelines and brand values.” TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed The controversy was sparked by a segment on Bee’s program Wednesday night dealing with immigration. Bee showed a picture Trump had posted on social media of her holding her son. Bee called Trump “oblivious” for posting the photo in light of recent stories about illegal immigrants being separated from their children at the U.S.-Mexico border. “Ivanka Trump, who works at the White House, chose to post the second most oblivious tweet we’ve seen this week,” Bee said. “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c—.” Do you expect more companies to pull their ads from Samantha Bee's program? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. The vulgarity in question was bleeped out during the broadcast. Taking the insult further, Bee suggested that because President Donald Trump has said that he listens to the advice he receives from his daughter, Ivanka Trumpa should wear suggestive clothing in order to get her father’s attention. “Put on something tight and low-cut and tell your father to f—ing stop it,” Bee said.” Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes, OK?” Early Thursday afternoon, Bee went on Twitter to apologize for her remark. I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it. — Samantha Bee (@iamsambee) May 31, 2018 “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it,” Bee said in a statement. TBS also issued an apology, saying “those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” Despite the decisions by Autotrader and State Farm, one company — Discover — announced Thursday it had no plans to pull its ads from Bee’s program. RELATED: ‘I Crossed A Line:’ Samantha Bee Forced To Apologize After Media Onslaught “As a national brand, our ads run on national broadcast, cable, digital, social, outdoor media, and just about everywhere in-between,” Discover said in a statement on Twitter Thursday. “Our media buys consistently change and reflect the diverse content and audiences we serve. Editorial direction and content are created by the individual program.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Former President Bill Clinton disagrees with long-time supporter Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand’s (D-NY) statement that he should have resigned in the wake of the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal. “You have to—really ignore what the context was,” Clinton told CBS Sunday Morning, set to air this Sunday. “But, you know, she’s living in a different context. And she did it for different reasons. So, I—but I just disagree with her.” In November, Gillibrand — who wholeheartedly endorsed Hillary Clinton’s infamous 2016 run for the White House — told the New York Times that the “appropriate response” to Bill Clinton’s sexual misconduct would have been a voluntary resignation. “Things have changed today, and I think under those circumstances there should be a very different reaction,” she said. “And I think in light of this conversation, we should have a very different conversation about President Trump, and a very different conversation about allegations against him.” Gillibrand continues to campaign against sexual harassment and was one of the first to call for Al Franken’s resignation after accusations of sexual misconduct were made against him. Clinton was apparently unfazed, however. He painted his own impeachment proceedings as a political ploy, saying, “Well, I knew it wouldn’t succeed. It wasn’t a pleasant experience. But it was a fight that I was glad to undertake after the elections, when the people had solidly told, by two-thirds or more, the Republicans to stop it. They knew there was nothing impeachable. And so, we fought it to the end. And I’m glad.”
Archaeologists have discovered a remarkably well-preserved 1,000-year-old mummy in Peru. A team from the Université Libre de Bruxelles in Belgium made the stunning find after nine weeks of excavation at the ancient site of Pachacamac. “The deceased is still wrapped in the enormous funeral bundle that served as a coffin,” ULB professor and excavation leader Peter Eeckhout, said in a statement. “Discoveries like this one are exceptionally scarce and this mummy is incredibly well preserved. Samples were collected for carbon-14 dating, but the area in which it was discovered and the type of tomb suggest this individual was buried between 1000 and 1200 AD.” Working with Christophe Moulherat, a textile specialist at the Musée du Quai Branly in Paris, the team will use medical imaging technology to examine the mummy. Experts hope that this will shed light on the person’s position in society, any diseases they suffered from and also reveal any hidden artifacts. The mummy was discovered in an undisturbed funeral chamber within an ancient sanctuary at Pachacamac. Dedicated to local ancestors, the sanctuary appears to have been transformed into a water and healing temple during Inca rule in the late 15th century. Archaeologists discovered a number of offerings left by worshippers, such as Spondylus shells imported from Ecuador. Associated with the influx of water during El Niño, the shells symbolize fertility and abundance, according to researchers. A monument intended to host pilgrims and rituals was also excavated at Pachacamac. Other fascinating and sometimes chilling, archaeological finds have been made in Peru. Earlier this year archaeologists in northern Peru said they have found evidence of what could be the world’s largest single case of child sacrifice. The pre-Columbian burial site, known as Las Llamas, contains the skeletons of 140 children who were between the ages of five and 14 when they were ritually sacrificed during a ceremony about 550 years ago, according to experts who led the excavation. Last year, archaeologists harnessed 3-D printing technology to reconstruct the face of an ancient 1,200-year-old Peruvian queen. The Associated Press contributed to this article.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Senator James Lankford (R-OK) spoke with Brian Kilmeade about his new Make Congress Work Again initiative which would help speed up Senate confirmations of judges and executive nominations and having the Senate work "smarter" including nights, weekends and throughout scheduled recess periods. Lankford pointed out that President Trump has had 94 nominations that Democrats have given cloture requests, meaning they needed a 30-hour debate period in the Senate, while at the same point in his first term President Obama only had 17 cloture requests on nominations from Republicans. Lankford's plan to streamline this process would be to shorten the 30-hour debate period on nominations to eight hours. Listen here:
Today, all Americans are told, "Go to college!" President Obama said, "College graduation has never been more valuable." But economist Bryan Caplan says that most people shouldn't go. "How many thousands of hours did you spend in classes studying subjects that you never thought about again?" he asks. Lots, in my case. At Princeton, I learned to live with strangers, play cards and chase women, but I slept through boring lectures, which were most of them. At least tuition was only $2,000. Now it's almost $50,000. "People usually just want to talk about the tuition, which is a big deal, but there's also all the years that people spend in school when they could have been doing something else," points out Caplan in my new YouTube video. "If you just take a look at the faces of students, it's obvious that they're bored," he says. "People are there primarily in order to get a good job." That sounds like a good reason to go to college. But Caplan, in his new book, "The Case Against Education," argues that there's little connection between what we absorb in college and our ability to do a job. "It's totally true that when people get fancier degrees their income generally goes up," concedes Caplan, but "the reason why this is happening is not that college pours tons of job skills into you. The reason is ... a diploma is a signaling device." It tells employers that you were smart enough to get through college. But when most everyone goes to college, says Caplan, "You just raise the bar. Imagine you're at a concert, and you want to see better. Stand up and of course you'll see better. But if everyone stands up, you just block each other's views." That's why today, he says, high-end waiters are expected to have college degrees. "You aren't saying: you, individual, don't go to college," I interjected."You're saying we as a country are suckers to subsidize it." "Exactly," replied Caplan. "Just because it is lucrative for an individual doesn't mean it's a good idea for a country." Caplan says if students really want to learn, they can do it without incurring tuition debt. "If you want to go to Princeton, you don't have to apply," he points out. "Just move to the town and start attending classes." That's generally true. At most schools you can crash college lectures for free. But almost no one does that. "In people's bones, they realize that what really counts is that diploma," concludes Caplan. Because that diploma is now usually subsidized by taxpayers, college costs more. Tuition has risen at triple the rate of inflation. It's not clear students learn more for their extra tuition, but colleges' facilities sure have gotten fancier. They compete by offering things like luxurious swimming pools and gourmet dining. That probably won't help you get a job. "If you're doing computer science or electrical engineering, then you probably are actually learning a bunch of useful skills," Caplan says. But students now often major in abstract topics like social justice, diversity studies, multicultural studies. "But don't the liberal arts expand people's minds?" I asked. Philosophy? Literature? Isn't it all making our brains work better? "That's the kind of thing you expect teachers to say," answered Caplan. "There's a whole field of people who have actually studied this (and) they generally come away after looking at a lot of evidence saying, 'Wow, actually it's wishful thinking.'" A study found that a third of people haven't detectably learned anything after four years in college. Although Caplan thinks college is mostly a scam, he says there's one type of person who definitely benefits -- professors like him. "I'm a tenured professor," he said. "A tenured professor cannot be fired. ... You got a nice income and there are almost no demands upon your time." Professor Caplan is only expected to teach for five hours a week. I told him that sounded like a government-subsidized rip-off. "Yeah. Well, I'm a whistleblower," replied Caplan.
OAKLAND, Calif. — In this corner, the defending champion Golden State Warriors, armed with four All-Stars who could one day be headed for the Hall of Fame. And in this corner, the Cleveland Cavaliers, armed with LeBron James, unquestionably the best player on the planet, plus an array of players who gather so little public respect they were the ridiculed object of a recent “Saturday Night Live” skit. And there you have the basic storyline for the historic fourth straight meeting in the NBA Finals of the Warriors, winners of two titles, and the Cavs, the heavy underdogs who hope to repeat their 2016 upset magic, when they bounced a Warriors team that had won a record 73 regular-season games. “Golden State is one of the best teams I’ve ever played. It’s one of the best teams that’s ever been assembled,” said James, who has hoisted the Cavs on his powerful shoulders and carried them past the Pacers, Raptors and Celtics to earn his eighth straight Finals and ninth overall. “Then they added Kevin Durant. So then what does that do to them? It makes them even more dangerous and even more powerful and great. “For me as a competitor, it’s fun. It’s truly fun to know when I’m done playing the game of basketball that I played against some of the greatest teams that ever played, ever been assembled. And this is one of them,” James said, neglecting to mention any of the Knicks teams in the recent Phil Jackson era. James labeled Durant, Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green as “Hall of Famers.” He also pointed to 2015 Finals MVP Andre Iguodala, a defensive pest against James in past title rounds (“He has very, very quick hands”) who will miss Game 1, at least, with a bruised leg. And there’s a lot more. And lined up against them is James and a crew that SNL chided for being able to help out James in anything that “isn’t basketball” — from sweeping up his chalk, to giving him high fives, to still learning the rules, they are there to help. And that was a notion the Warriors obviously trashed. “Any time you have a team that’s led by somebody who is considered the greatest player of all time or one of them, there’s going to be an interesting sort of dynamic with the teammates,” Golden State coach Steve Kerr said. “We have great respect for the other guys. Kevin Love is an All-Star, perennial All-Star, great 3-point shooter, physical rebounder. Kyle Korver, one of the great shooters of all time. We’ve seen J.R. [Smith], last time he was in this building he had like 30 points in Game 5 last year. “We know what these guys can do. You don’t get to the Finals with one man, no matter how good that one man is. So we have great respect for the Cavs, their resiliency,” Kerr added. “We’re preparing for a lot more than just LeBron.” Probably because there really is no way to prepare for LeBron. “He’s the Mr. Everything for them. He’s been playing amazing the whole regular season and especially in these playoffs to will his team back here,” Curry said of James, who has averaged 34.0 points, 8.8 rebounds and shot 54.2 percent in the postseason. And so Wednesday’s media session became almost an homage to James. If there were just one guy to go up against a team stacked with future Hall of Famers, James is the one. “Eight straight times to the Finals. The fact he’s doing that in the modern era is pretty remarkable,” Thompson said. Smith, the ex-Knick, raved about James’ IQ. “He shows me it day in and day out, whether it’s knowing a play M.J. [Michael Jordan] ran against Phoenix way back in the ’90s or a play that he’s seen yesterday, his IQ is ridiculous,” Smith said. “He can process things extremely fast on the move while things are happening in certain situations. It’s pretty remarkable.” So maybe the Cavs aren’t such great underdogs after all — at least in the mind of James, who suggests maybe there is another level he can reach. “The level that I can play at is to be seen, but the level that I put into the game and put into my craft is who I am. So numbers and things like that kind of take care of itself,” said James, seeking a fourth title. “You guys talked about what’s your ceiling, and I’ve always kind of told you guys that I don’t really have a ceiling. I want to just try to maximize as much as I can and be as good as I can.”
“American Animals” takes an appropriately wild approach to its subject, biting off a little more than it can chew, but nevertheless coming up with a truly novel entry in the overcrowded heist genre. In his feature debut, director/writer Bart Layton chronicles the odd but true story of four young men who hatched an elaborate scheme to steal rare books from a Kentucky university in 2004, the grand prize being John James Audubon’s enormous tome “Birds of America.” Layton mixes truth and fiction with abandon, enlisting the real four men to chime in alongside the actors playing their younger selves. As ringleader Warren, the charismatic Evan Peters (“X-Men Apocalypse”) convinces his stoner artist buddy Spencer (Barry Keoghan) that a grand, no-one-gets-hurt robbery is just what they need to shake off the yoke of life’s encroaching normalcy. Early on, the film’s tone is light, with the real Warren and Spencer questioning each other’s renditions of how it all went down. As they enlist more humorless pals Eric (Jared Abrahamson) and Chas (Blake Jenner), though, the proceedings get increasingly dark. By the time Warren’s squaring his shoulders to tase the rare-books librarian (Ann Dowd, always a treat), “American Animals” has veered from sorta-true-crime quasi-comedy into a Scorsese-inflected look at the realities of attempting a theft of this magnitude. Sweat, tears, vomit and rage replace the usual smooth stylings of a cinematic heist, and although this might not all tonally flow, it’s clear you’re watching a dazzling new directorial career taking flight.
It changes by the day, but Iran’s currency - the rial - is falling. This is inflation. The value of money declines such that holders of it can exchange it for fewer and fewer goods and services. Something similar, but exponentially worse, is happening in Venezuela. A recent article in the Wall Street Journal indicated inflation of 13,000% due to a plummeting Bolivar. If Iran’s economy is down, Venezuela’s is collapsing. The suffering taking place in both countries rates prominent mention in consideration of the modern view of inflation promoted by the biggest employer of economists in the world: the Federal Reserve. According to the credentialed in its employ, economic growth causes inflation. Yes, more people working and prospering supposedly has a downside. According to the Fed, the downside is inflation. Except that the Fed’s view of inflation is 100% backwards. Crucial here is that it’s backwards in countless ways. Inflation is always and everywhere a function of a declining currency. It’s not a growth phenomenon as the Fed suggests. Fed economists would be wise to visit Iran and Venezuela to understand that inflation has nothing to do with prosperity. That economists at the Fed believe growth causes inflation is yet another reminder of the central bank’s onrushing irrelevance. If an entity so full of the confused were actually powerful, this sad truth would reveal itself through persistent economic contraction. That the U.S. economy is the world’s most dynamic is loud evidence that the mindless interventions foisted on the economy from the central bank don’t mean too much. The Fed’s incorrect inflation definition is rooted in a triple falsehood born of the easily disprovable view inside the bank that consumption drives economic growth. What a laugh. Implicit there is that Venezuela and Iran are booming. That’s the case because the citizens in each country have endless consumptive desires. They’re human after all, and as humans our desire to consume is limitless. Missed by the Fed’s deep thinkers is that consumption springs from production. Always. It’s an effect of growth, at best. Iranians and Venezuelans can’t consume very much precisely because they’re not producing very much. Fed economists think abundant consumption causes inflation, but then we can once again only consume insofar as we produce first. As such, demand always matches supply. There’s no inflationary impact to speak of. After that, it should be noted that implicit in the Fed’s confused models is that the U.S. is an economic island with limited labor and production capacity. Except that it isn’t. While the Fed models “output gaps” in terms of labor and capacity that are supposedly limited by the number of workers and factories stateside, real people in the real U.S. economy properly operate as though those models don’t exist. Lest we forget, the best U.S. companies access the world’s labor and factory capacity to create their goods and services. There are so many examples, but Nike manufactures more shoes in China than anywhere else. It doesn’t manufacture any of its shoes in the U.S. Back to a reality that plainly doesn’t intrude on the economists at the Federal Reserve, investment is what powers economic growth. The latter is a statement of the obvious. While the desire to consume is a given, our ability to consume is limited by our ability to produce. Production is what enables consumption, and the latter is an effect of investment. Investment is what enables the individuals who comprise the economy to produce more and more with less and less. Applied to labor and capacity shortages, it's the growth itself wrought by investment that shrinks the need for labor (think automation) to produce for our myriad wants and needs. Economic growth doesn't cause labor and capacity shortages as Fed economists believe; rather it mitigates them. Important here is that investment in production enhancements and inputs is what brings the price of everything down. Lest we forget, the prosaic ball-point pen used to cost $15. Nowadays a box of 60 goes for $7. The latter describes the price evolution of nearly every consumer good. Thanks to feverish investment, the cost of everything is frequently in decline. The above speaks to the genius of economic growth. It’s an effect of investment simply because the investment is what enhances the productivity of the individuals who comprise what we call an “economy.” The more investment there is, the more knowledge and progress there is. And the more that prices decline thanks to greater understanding of how to produce more and more at lower and lower prices. It’s sad that something so obvious must be repeated so regularly, but the surest sign of booming economic growth is falling prices. Conversely, rising prices are the surest sign of a lack of economic growth given the high odds of – you guessed it – inflation. When a currency is in decline, investment naturally plummets. It does for obvious reasons. Investors are less likely to invest if returns are going to come back in a cheaper currency. So with investment dormant, or actually contracting, the capital necessary for production enhancements disappears. The truth can’t be repeated enough. Inflation has always and everywhere correlated with slow economic growth precisely because inflation is an effect of a falling currency that logically correlates with reduced investment. The situations in Iran and Venezuela loudly support this basic truth. Sad is that economists at the Fed are still hung up on a modern definition of inflation that could have only been divined by economists, and that has nothing to do with reality. This article originally appeared on Forbes.com.
CNN star reporter Jim Acosta slammed Kim Kardashian West’s meeting with President Trump regarding prison reform on Wednesday as “not normal,” but media watchers quickly pointed out his hypocrisy by pointing to Acosta's sitdown with singer John Legend's in 2015 during President Obama’s administration to talk about the exact same subject. “She shouldn’t be here, talking about prison reform, it’s very nice that she is here but that’s not a serious thing to have happened here at the White House,” Acosta said on CNN Wednesday in the middle of a rant about Trump’s tweet regarding Roseanne Barr’s recent firing. Acosta took issue with Kardashian West and Trump reportedly discussing prison reform and the possible pardon for a great-grandmother who is serving a drug-related life prison sentence. However, in 2015 Acosta sat down with Legend for a lengthy feature on mass incarceration and the criminal justice system. When Legend declared that prison is not the solution to every problem, Acosta nodded approvingly before noting that prison reform is “personal” for the musician. Legend and his celebrity wife, Chrissy Teigen, visited the White House several times during the Obama administration and once hinted that they had sex at an “Obama thing.” Acosta never objected to any of Legend’s meetings with Obama. CNN did not immediately respond to a request for comment regarding when Acosta changed his mind about celebrities discussing prison reform and visiting the White House. The double standard didn’t go unnoticed. Mediaite’s Joseph Wulfsohn penned a column headlined, “Jim Acosta Trashes Kim Kardashian’s Prison Reform Efforts As Not ‘Serious’ After Taking John Legend’s Seriously in 2015,” which examines the CNN star’s abrupt change in attitude. “If your argument is that Legend is some intellect singer-songwriter and Kardashian is some air-headed reality star, that misses the point. Look at what they have in common; they’re A-list celebrities with huge followings who have sincere passions that involve politics and in this case, both are using their celebrity status on prison reform,” Wulfsohn wrote. Wulfsohn gave Acosta the “benefit of the doubt” that sexism isn’t a factor in the reporter’s flip-flopped views on celebrities using their star power in an attempt to impact prison reform. “Perhaps it’s his disdain for Donald Trump, a president who he essentially admitted doesn’t take seriously,” Wulfsohn added. Wulfsohn wasn’t the only watchdog to notice Acosta’s Hypocrisy. Fox News contributor Stephen Miller tweeted contradicting screen grabs of various tweets the CNN reporter has sent over the years, while countless others took to Twitter to mock Acosta. Acosta recently bragged that he was kicked out of the Oval Office by President Trump, saying he wears it “as a badge of honor,” while being glorified for serving as White House antagonist during an appearance on ABC’s “Jimmy Kimmel Live.” Earlier this year, Trump kicked the CNN star out of the Oval Office after Acosta badgered the president with racially charged questions. Last month, Acosta was forced to do damage control after he was accused of taking personal shots at Trump supporters, saying “their elevator might not hit all floors.” He defended his comments, claiming that his words were “twisted by some outlets.” Trump has famously dubbed CNN “fake news” and pointed directly at Acosta, calling him by the disparaging moniker in the past. Last December, Acosta was shut down by Press Secretary Sarah Sanders when he tried to hijack a press briefing and he has also gotten into combative arguments with other members of the administration including former Press Secretary Sean Spicer, Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney and Senior Policy Adviser Stephen Miller.
A fresh season is breathing new life into the Hamptons housing market, and bucolic Bridgehampton is seeing the sharpest growth, with a 64-percent rise in home sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period last year. Among those big-ticket deals: a four-acre property that fetched $22.7 million and an 11-bedroom estate in nearby Water Mill that changed hands for $26.1 million. But don’t panic over those eye-popping prices, says Dianne McMillan Brannen, a Hamptons broker with Douglas Elliman. “Buyers get much larger homes with much smaller price tags in Bridgehampton,” she says. “For a few million dollars, you’ll get a property twice the size as in other areas of the East End.” Elliman is currently listing an eight-bedroom home with eight baths at 114 Lockwood Ave. for $5.6 million. The new-construction property measures 7,400 square feet, with a wine cellar and a swimming pool. Meanwhile, Corcoran is marketing Barn & Vine, a collection of 37 houses off Scuttle Hole Road, next to Channing Daughters Winery in Bridgehampton. Each home has five to eight bedrooms and a private pool. Prices start at $2.9 million and rise to $3.9 million, and the offerings range in size from 3,800 to 4,269 square feet. “For that size of a home, you’d pay double that amount in other areas of the Hamptons,” says Corcoran broker Susan Breitenbach, who’s handling sales at the development.
By M.D.Kittle | Watchdog.org A former defense secretary in the Clinton administration plans to investigate the Environmental Protection Agency’s controversial evaluation of a potential mining project in the Bristol Bay watershed in Alaska — an evaluation, critics say, was heavy-handed and employed bad science. William S. Cohen this week announced that his firm, the Cohen Group, assisted by the law firm DLA Piper Global, will conduct an independent review to determine whether the EPA acted fairly. Cohen has been retained by the Pebble Limited Partnership, developers of the proposed mine that has become the focus of environmentalist angst. Cohen will evaluate the fairness of the EPA’s actions and decisions in its contentious process based upon a “thorough assessment of the facts and informed by his experience as Secretary of Defense as well as his 24 years as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate,” according to a press release. He will have full discretion as to the “means and manner” of carrying out the review to “ensure that it is thorough and unbiased.” The EPA is the subject of an investigation by its own Office of Inspector General, as well as inquiries and hearings by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. More recently, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee has questioned the EPA’s move to preemptively kill a copper and gold mine project that would create thousands of jobs before PLP has the opportunity to present its full plan to regulators. Documents obtained under Freedom of Information Act requests raise serious questions about the EPA’s conduct. Cohen said a condition of his accepting the review is he will have complete independence in following the evidence wherever it may lead. “I have agreed to undertake this effort after reviewing a wide range of available documents, including those produced in response to FOIA requests, that persuaded me that legitimate questions exist which merit an in-depth, independent review,” he said. “To ensure a comprehensive and unbiased evaluation, I welcome hearing from, and will be reaching out to, interested stakeholders, and I will carefully consider all points of view. I invite those who have information relating to the issues under review to meet with my team so that we might receive all relevant information for consideration.” PLP has long said it welcomes a thorough review of their proposals, but they want the opportunity to present the information through due process, which they believe has been denied via the EPA’s preemptive push to kill the project. “Our message is about standing up for fair and due process,” PLP spokesman Mike Heatwole told Watchdog last August. In July, EPA unveiled a proposed list of crippling restrictions that could severely limit development of the proposed Pebble Mine project in Alaska’s bush country, an operation that developers say would create 1,000 direct jobs, and thousands more indirectly, and as much as $180 million in revenue for the state. The agency is invoking a section of the Clean Water Act, a section that could allow the EPA to stop the mine proposal before the developers are able to present their plan to state and federal regulatory agencies. “EPA has never pre-emptively stopped a project in the 42-year history of the Clean Water Act,” Heatwole told KTUU TV in Anchorage Tuesday. “And the precedent that would be established outside of the permitting process is of grave concern, not just to Pebble, but all of the statewide trade and business associations, and many national organizations. The EPA’s position in Alaska has proved chilling to mine development across the country, the latest being a proposed $1.5 billion iron ore mine in northern Wisconsin, also expected to create good-paying jobs in an economically distressed region of the state. Dennis McLerran, regional administrator for the EPA’s Region 10, has said the dangers of even a smaller mine in the Bristol Bay region’s “fragile ecosystem” would be devastating. He told reporters the EPA is trying to protect the world’s largest salmon fishery, where half of the world’s sockeye salmon population is said to live, from what would be “one of the world’s largest open pit mine developments ever conceived of.” “What we have here is an extraordinarily large mine in an extraordinarily important fisher location,” he told the Anchorage TV station. “So this is an extraordinary use of authority that we use very infrequently, very sparingly, but we use it when it’s really important.” Pebble filed a lawsuit in May against the agency. In its complaint, the company asserts the EPA doesn’t possess the authority to block or limit the mine. “Here, nothing in Section 404 of the (Clean Water) Act or elsewhere in the statute suggests that Congress intended for EPA to arrogate to itself an authority that essentially bans an activity — mining — before it is even proposed by an applicant,” the lawsuit states. EPA officials have said they already have the science to show what a theoretical mine could do to the region. But that science has been blasted as faulty by several experts in peer review. “This is a lot bigger than Pebble,” PLP says on its website. “If the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is successful in denying Pebble the right to even submit a permit application to undergo state and federal review, it sets a precedent and takes control for zoning away from Alaska. This would give the EPA control over the Alaska economy,” the developer asserts in asking viewers to “take 30 seconds to send a message to the EPA asking them to stand down and reconsider their (pre-emptive) action.”
An Ohio ballot initiative that aims to cut prescription drug costs for millions has drawn opposition from health officials, business groups and community organizations, all of whom find the measure’s promises hard to swallow. The Ohio Drug Price Relief Act, which will appear on the Nov. 7 ballot, would mandate that the state government pay no more for prescription drugs than the federal Department of Veterans Affairs. Typically, the VA gets discounts of about 24 percent. Supporters of the initiative, which was spearheaded by the California-based AIDS Heathcare Foundation, say it will benefit four million Ohioans, save about $400 million annually and help get drug companies to mend their ways. But opponents view the measure as ludicrous, unworkable and simplistic, and they say the promised cost savings are illusionary. If passed, the initiative would actually raise drug costs for the majority of Ohio residents, they say. “The other side has a very easy issue to demagogue, and they do it all the time,” Dale Butland, spokesman for Ohioans Against the Deceptive Rx Ballot Issue, told Watchdog.org. Three quarters of state-purchased drugs in Ohio go to the Medicaid program, which already gets a discount of 23.1 percent, Butland said. Ohio negotiates further discounts through private agreements as well, he said. “Ohio is already paying very close, if not the same, as the VA …” Butland said. “The alleged savings that the ‘yes’ campaign talks about is simply not there.” And though the initiative says the state would have to spend no more than the lowest drug price paid by the VA, it’s not possible to know the lowest price because the VA also negotiates voluntary discounts with drug manufacturers that are not disclosed, according to Butland. Because the initiative does not apply to those with private health care, Ohioans insured through their employers could see their drug prices go up, he said. If drug manufacturers are told they have to sell their products to certain buyers at a lower rate, they could opt to recoup any losses by raising the costs for those not covered by the initiative, Butland said. The campaign opposing the drug price initiative sees its role as educating voters about the proposal’s details. A similar proposal in California lost by a 53-to-47-percent margin last November, but it started out with an 80 percent approval rating, he said. “By election day, a lot of Democratic voters thought this really wasn’t a good idea,” Butland said. The opponents have endorsements from 70 statewide organizations in Ohio, including medical associations, business and labor groups, and community organizations. Several former Ohio Medicaid directors have joined the opposition as well, saying that uncertainties about how market forces would play out make it a risky deal for taxpayers. But Dennis Willard, spokesman for Ohio Taxpayers for Lower Drug Prices, sees the current drug pricing market as dysfunctional, with drug companies having the ability to raise prices at will. The idea that Ohio already receives drug discounts of more than 20 percent is both inaccurate and illogical, Willard said. “Drug companies would not be spending tens of millions if this had no impact on their bottom line and their price gouging,” he told Watchdog.org. Any drug discount is actually split between the federal and state governments, with the feds getting the vast majority of it, according to Willard. “The discount is tied to Obamacare, and we do not know the future of Obamacare at this point,” he said, adding that the discount does not apply to all Medicaid recipients. One statewide medical organization supporting the measure is the Ohio Academy of Family Physicians, which sees the high cost of drug treatments as a crucial issue for patients and one state and federal lawmakers have not solved. “This initiated statute is far from perfect, simplistic and flawed in many respects, and may not be the best approach for addressing high drug costs,” the academy said in a statement. “But, because of the inaction of state and federal lawmakers, it is all we have. By supporting this issue, we hope to send a message to legislators — the exorbitant cost of medications and the negative impact those costs have on patients must be addressed.” But the Ohio Pharmacists Association rejects such notions, arguing that the measure contains no requirement that pharmacies would be able to purchase prescription drugs at the VA rate. So if the measure passes, pharmacies serving Medicaid patients could end up having to pay the going commercial rate from their suppliers while receiving a smaller reimbursement from the state government, according to Antonio Ciaccia, director of government and public affairs for the association. Under such a scenario, pharmacies that have 40 to 50 percent of their business with Medicaid could not afford such a squeeze and would have to go out of business, Ciaccia said, adding that Medicaid is already underfunding pharmacies. “This will just exacerbate the current landscape,” he said.
Several more women have come forward with accusations against disgraced celebrity chef Mario Batali, and this time, it’s not just former co-workers or employees speaking out — it’s his fans. A number of Batali’s ex-admirers spoke to Eater, the online publication, about their experiences in meeting Batali at restaurant events or bars, describing such behaviors as forcible kissing, groping, asking them to accompany him to his hotel, and in one case, being a “serial crotch grazer.” A few of the women also provided photos to Eater that reportedly depict the offending behaviors. MARIO BATALI'S LAS VEGAS STRIP RESTAURANTS TO CLOSE Sara Watson and Natali Tene, two self-described former fans of Batali, told Eater they ran into him at separate bars in 2016 and 2017, respectively, but the experiences they describe are strikingly similar. Watson, 31, reportedly attended a charity event for the 2016 Link Stryjewski Foundation, which had been catered by Batali, and ended up seeing him at a bar after the dinner. She said she asked for a photo, but soon felt Batali’s hands “all over my butt, thighs, the whole vaginal area.” He also licked her face and ear, and told her he wanted to perform oral sex on her, according to Watson. “I had never had anyone do something like that to me — it was appalling, he had no shame,” Watson told Eater, adding that Batali was “obviously drunk.” Tene, too, claimed Batali appeared to be drunk upon spotting him in a Boston bar. He called her over after she snapped a photo of him, she says, and insisted they take selfies. Tene, 28, claims he then proceeded to rub her breasts and butt, and try to kiss her before inviting her back to his hotel. Tene tells Eater she “ended the conversation as quickly as possible” before leaving. “I feel like what he did to me wasn’t one drunken mistake; I feel like he was a predator,” she said. Another woman, 48-year-old Sharelle Klaus, said she met a seemingly drunk Batali at a restaurant in Aspen in 2012 and he suggested they pose a photo. He then stuck his hand down her pants, underneath her underwear, and groped her behind, she said. “In one moment you go from being really excited to meet this guy, who’s like a hometown hero, to just disgust,” Klaus told Eater. BATALI'S RESTAURANT GROUP ENDING PARTNERSHIP WITH CHEF, BUT WON'T FINALIZE UNTIL JULY A couple of former employees, too, shared their experiences with Eater, alleging that Batali had a habit of greeting his female staff members by pressing the back of his hand into their crotch, or sometimes just cupping it while they were talking. “We all knew he was sleazy. We dreaded when he’d come in, because we knew he’d keep everyone there late, drinking and doing what he does,” said one employee who wished to remain anonymous. Additional allegations described to Eater tell of Batali’s behavior with more fans, one of whom said Batali tried to shove his tongue in her mouth at the 2017 Link Stryjewski Foundation. Another woman said she was invited to join Batali for dinner on the third floor of NYC’s The Spotted Pig restaurant — which has been described by former employees as the “rape room,” and where multiple other women say they were abused by Batali — and Batali cup her breast and refuse to stop until she pointed out that he was a married man. These latest allegations against Batali come just over a week after another woman appeared on “60 Minutes” and accused Batali of sexually abusing her also at The Spotted Pig restaurant, saying she woke up on the floor of the private third-floor dining area with broken bottles around her legs and what appeared to be semen on her skirt. The NYPD announced an investigation into certain allegations against Batali shortly thereafter. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS Batali first announced he would be stepping away from the “day-to-day operations” of his entire restaurant group in early December, following Eater's initial report. Additional accusations of inappropriate behavior surfaced in the following weeks, including accounts from a former Del Posto hostess who said Batali touched her breasts, and that of a former manager at The Spotted Pig who claimed to have seen Batali grope and kiss a woman who appeared unconscious. In April, The New York Times further reported that Batali was “actively exploring” ideas for his future career. Following the latest allegations, Batali said in a statement that he is “not attempting a professional comeback,” but rather a “personal path forward” in which he “can continue in [his] charitable endeavors.”
A makeup company with a social justice bent, called The Lipstick Lobby, produces different shades of lipstick to support various left-leaning causes. "We are a social justice movement for change, progress and equality. Please join us in a simple way to protest and make a difference: this bold statement lipstick," the company says on their website. "Wearing this lipstick is a reminder that small actions can create big waves. It's a simple way to speak up and speak out against the threats to freedoms posed by the Trump administration. It's a small thing we can all do right here, right now to create change." The company donates 100 percent of proceeds of their "Kiss My Pink" color to Planned Parenthood. They donate $5 of every lipstick sale of their "OUTRAGE" color to the ACLU. And now, the company has launched their orange "Fired Up" lipstick, where 100 percent of their net profits will be donated to the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. This is why The Lipstick Lobby says they support gun control: FIRED UP: SAY IT WITH STENCILS No matter what you’re POV on gun control or gun ownership, I think we can all agree, enough is enough. Taking inspiration from our brave and passionate survivors, we encouraged each participant to “stencil” a message using our fiery orange FIRED UP shade. Some of our messages include the classroom number at the MSD school that was gunned down, a message of positivity and “HOPE” or simply “NO”- we just cannot tolerate one more life lost to gun violence. Before the launch of the "Fired Up" color, the lipstick company took a swing at Congress and their "lack of action." Another day in America, another school shooting. And yet Congress continues to do nothing. It’s time to demand our leaders take action or come November we will #votethemout. We Stand With @Bradybuzz ???? https://t.co/UssTVAhto5 pic.twitter.com/puEX6oXJTA — The Lipstick Lobby (@TLipstickLobby) May 19, 2018 According to the company's founder, Davida Hall, she wanted to impact the conversation on guns and gun control. "Our focus is female-centered, through the lens of women; how we feel as women, as mothers, as nurturers; what we think are the spotlight issues for our societies and our communities,” Hall told Forbes. “When we saw what was happening, we asked ourselves: how could we look away from this? How could we ignore innocent people just dying?” The company's focus, however, is not on turning a profit but making a social impact. “We’re not in it to make money,” she said. “We’re in it to use our voices and our skills at capacity. We’re a beauty brand for change. We’re flexible enough to pivot to new issues quickly." The bright orange color that is used for the "Fired Up" campaign is a color that is easily recognized across the country. “There’s an element that when you wear this kind of color, you see that it’s original and unique,” Kris Brown, the co-president of the Brady Campaign, told Forbes.“It’s associated with gun violence prevention, and I think it spreads awareness and understanding of the issue.” Of course, the Brady Campaign is supportive of The Lipstick Lobby's efforts. “Sadly, we’ve had far too many mass shootings in this country,” Brown said. “We have 96 Americans a day who are shot in this country. And Brady has been actively working to support victims and makes sure that stories get told, and that their voices get lifted up. I think what’s happened post-Parkland is that these kids have articulated so well their righteous indignation that we still live in a country where the vast majority of Americans want these changes, whether you own guns or don’t. And they’re saying, enough! And we’re certainly supportive of those efforts.” Gun control advocates and survivors from Marjory Stoneman Douglas, Pulse Nightclub, Columbine, Washington Navy Yard and Sandy Hook are taking part in this campaign. The company is utilizing survivors' stories to push their lipstick: Here are some of the promotional pictures: We are so honored that @JennyWadhwa1 joined us in our new campaign #FIREDUP! 100% of net profits from this shade go directly to @Bradybuzz . Join us in helping Brady reach their goal of cutting U.S. gun deaths in half by 2025 by shopping at https://t.co/KdmJyOgnJs pic.twitter.com/5AAwX3ToD8 — The Lipstick Lobby (@TLipstickLobby) May 29, 2018 #TeamENOUGH exec. council member & Parkland survivor, Aalayah Eastmond is featured in @TLipstickLobby's newest campaign #FiredUP which helps support @bradybuzz efforts to prevent gun violence -> https://t.co/Lq90aF09jh pic.twitter.com/jV81F2SIhW — Team ENOUGH (@Team_Enough) May 29, 2018 Interestingly enough, Hall sees this campaign as a "unification" type of project. “We can’t do this alone. We hope people see these campaigns as less political and more about our civil liberties and not who you voted for in office. It’s about being human," Hall said.
If every other egregious example of a male student denied due process after being accused of sexual misconduct gets ignored – this one should not be. A male student who was accused of sexual harassment committed suicide just days after the University of Texas at Arlington ignored its own policies in order to punish him. The accused student’s father, a lawyer acting as the administrator of his son’s estate, is now suing the school for violating his son’s Title IX rights. College administrators, as well as members of the media and legislators, would do well to remember the name Thomas Klocke. Klocke, a straight male, was accused by a gay male student of writing anti-gay slurs on his computer during a class. Klocke vehemently denied the accusation, and administrators who investigated the incident acknowledged there was no evidence to support the accuser’s claims, yet Klocke was still punished. The accusing student, who is being sued by Klocke’s father for defamation, claims that in May 2016, Klocke made a comment during a class about “privilege,” and then proceeded to open his laptop and type “gays should die” into his web browser’s search bar. The accuser (who is not being named because Watchdog was unable to contact him for comment) claims he typed into his own browser search bar, “I’m gay.” The accuser next claimed that Klocke feigned a yawn and said under his breath: “Well, then you’re a faggot.” The accuser says he told Klocke he should leave the class, to which Klocke allegedly responded: “You should consider killing yourself.” The accuser claims he was made so uncomfortable by the exchange that he waited until the end of class and spoke to the professor, who allegedly told him to contact student support services. There is no documentation to suggest the professor was interviewed in the course of the investigation in order to corroborate the accuser’s claims. The attorney for Klocke’s father, Kenneth Chaiken, told Watchdog the professor never provided a witness statement, suggesting he was never asked what he saw that day. Not following procedure Klocke insisted that what happened in that mid-May class in 2016 was completely different than what the accuser claimed. Klocke said his accuser made unwelcome sexual advances toward him. Klocke rejected the advances, telling his eventual accuser that he was straight. The lawsuit suggests that this rejection led the accuser to make up his story, possibly out of fear that he himself could be accused of sexual misconduct. Instead of seeking support services, the accuser reached out to Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Heather Snow, with whom he had a friendly relationship. The accuser was close enough to Snow to refer to her by her first name at times, and Snow quickly became the accuser’s advocate, helping him to draft a complaint against Klocke and conducting the disciplinary procedure without following the school’s Title IX policies. The lawsuit alleges that UTA’s Title IX coordinator was not informed of the allegation, even though Snow suggested it constituted sexual harassment. This is a violation of UTA’s policies regarding sexual misconduct, which state complaints “should be made to the Title IX Coordinator or Deputy Coordinators.” Snow was neither. Further, UTA’s Title IX policies state that the Title IX coordinator is responsible for overseeing the investigation and assigning an investigator. The investigator must then produce a report based on facts gathered and present it to the Title IX coordinator and deputy coordinator before any hearing. Klocke received no hearing, even though he contradicted his accuser’s claims. Had Snow properly reported the complaint to the Title IX coordinator, Klocke would have received necessary protections from the school. By doing things on her own terms, Snow was able to deny Klocke his rights as stated in UTA policy. Snow took control of the disciplinary procedure that involved a complaint she wrote herself. She enlisted the help of UTA’s associate director of academic integrity, Daniel Moore, and had him tell Klocke he was immediately prohibited from attending the class where the incident was alleged to have occurred. Klocke was completing the course as part of a short, pre-summer semester in order to graduate that summer. When Klocke was informed that an accusation had been lodged against him, he was not told the name of his accuser. Klocke was also informed that he could not contact anyone in the class, directly or indirectly, effectively denying him any ability to find witnesses to corroborate his story. His accuser was able to remain in the class and find witnesses. He found only one, who didn’t corroborate his account but did say he overheard someone say “you should leave.” This could have been said by either Klocke or his accuser in either of their stories. Klocke told Moore he needed to attend the class and asked for more information about the accusation against him. Moore ignored this request but sent Klocke a “summons letter” on May 20. The lawsuit alleges Moore never informed Klocke that this was a Title IX investigation (as Moore usually handled academic issues) or Klocke’s rights under Title IX. Moore also never told Klocke that he would not be allowed a hearing. He was never informed that Snow – who was not an impartial party – was running the show, even helping Moore determine a punishment. Klocke was charged with violating Title IX based solely on the accusation. He was charged with two violations: physical abuse or threat thereof and a non-specific violation of the school’s anti-harassment policy. It should be noted that the accuser never claimed Klocke was physical or threatened physical harm. By charging Klocke in this manner, UTA further violated its own policies, which state that charges are supposed to come after an investigation and hearing, and after the accused has had a chance to present witnesses in his defense. The accuser’s report, written in whole or part by Snow, was described as “a statement of evidence” against Klocke. Klocke was not provided a list of witnesses, even though Moore’s summons letter said he would do so. Moore’s letter informed Klocke that he could be expelled over the accusation, though UTA policy states that accused students facing such punishment have the right to a hearing (which Klocke was denied). Klocke met with Moore on May 23, 2016. Klocke brought his father, Wayne, an attorney, but was told Wayne could not stay. Moore did not tell Klocke that his father would be allowed to stay if Klocke waived confidentiality. No investigation Wayne’s attorneys deposed Snow and Moore ahead of filing the lawsuit, and received documents from UTA regarding Klocke’s case. Notes from Moore’s meeting with Klocke indicate the accused student said he didn’t know the name of his accuser prior to the incident, and wondered how the accuser knew his name. Klocke also told his side of the story, claiming his accuser sat next to him that day in class and called Klocke beautiful. Klocke said he typed into his browser “Stop – I’m straight,” to which his accuser replied: “I’m gay.” Klocke further said his accuser kept glancing at him, so he asked him to “stop.” He denied faking a yawn and said he was the one to ask his accuser to leave. His accuser began typing on his phone and laughing, which Klocke found distracting, so he moved across the room about 30 to 45 minutes into class. Klocke denied typing any slurs into his web browser. Despite learning that Klocke may have been the victim of sexual harassment, no investigation was conducted and Klocke was not told he should file a report. After the meeting, Moore informed Klocke that he needed to go to a private room to take an exam for the class he was not allowed to attend. Since Klocke had not been allowed to attend class in the prior days, he was unaware of some of the test material, and thus did poorly. Moore also told Klocke he could continue working on group projects outside of class, but couldn’t attend the class itself. Moore informed Klocke he would be speaking to a witness and would decide Klocke’s fate after. UTA Policy 9 states that disputed accusations and charges that could result in expulsion shall include a hearing. Again, Klocke was denied this. On May 24, 2016, Moore and Snow discussed the case. Snow asked if Klocke acknowledged the behavior he was accused of, to which Moore replied: “not at all.” He told Snow the students had completely different accounts of the incident in question, but did not tell Snow what Klocke’s story was. Moore also told Snow he didn’t have enough evidence to keep Klocke out of class. Snow agreed, saying “there isn’t enough to go off of” and said Klocke should be allowed back in the class with a mutual no-contact order with his accuser. Instead, Moore said he would look for another way to keep Klocke out of the class, and Snow told him to see if the class would be offered later in the summer. This, the lawsuit states, effectively confirmed “that Thomas not only should remain excluded from the classroom, but that he should be excluded from the Course altogether, despite the fact there was not enough to go off of, to keep Thomas out of the classroom.” Moore reported back to Snowe that he “worked it out” to keep Klocke out of the class. Snow said it seemed like a “good resolution.” Moore sent Klocke a letter the next day, on May 25, stating that Klocke had been found responsible for harassment (even though Moore and Snow acknowledged there was no evidence to support this claim). Klocke was placed on disciplinary probation for the remainder of his time at UTA, and would have this on his disciplinary record. It was never explained to Klocke why he was found responsible when there was no evidence. ‘The most tragic outcome’ Chaiken, the filing attorney, told Watchdog that someone informed Klocke that this disciplinary record could keep him out of grad school, which Klocke had planned to attend after graduation in the summer. Just days after Klocke was punished, he took his own life. Had Snow and Moore followed proper UTA policy, Klocke might never have been punished in the first place, as he would have been allowed a hearing to present evidence in his defense. Klocke’s father alleges his son was discriminated against because he was a male accused student, and that Snow and Moore selectively enforced UTA’s Title IX procedures. Klocke had no prior history of mental health problems, and by all accounts was happy and looking forward to the future after graduation. In a statement to Watchdog, Chaiken expressed the importance of a fair investigation. “When a college violates the legal rights of a student accused of misconduct, and its own rules for addressing such a complaint, the accused student can suffer life altering consequences,” he said in an email. “The important case of Klocke v. University of Texas at Arlington illustrates just how quickly and arbitrarily a college can act, leading to the most tragic outcome from the unimaginable stress and pain that an unfairly treated, accused student can suffer. It also serves to underscore why reforms in the campus disciplinary process are so necessary, as recently recommended by the American College of Trial Lawyers, and why accountability through the judicial process may help to promote those reforms.” Representatives for UTA did not respond to a Watchdog request for comment.
Well, if there is one person who should be slightly more worried about her 2018 re-election chances, it’s Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-MO). We have reports that Republican Gov. Eric Greitens will resign after being engulfed in controversy over an extramarital affair. Criminal charges were filed, a trial started, and reports of sexual misconduct stemmed from the governor’s office (via Fox News): Missouri lawmakers on both sides of the aisle are calling on Gov. Eric Greitens to resign following a report that an affair he had was at times violent and non-consensual. […] Greitens was indicted in February on a felony invasion-of-privacy charge. He was booked at the St. Louis Justice Center before he was released on his own recognizance, according to a circuit attorney spokeswoman. The charges came after a man secretly recorded his wife admitting to having an extramarital affair with Greitens in March 2015. In the recording, she alleged that Greitens took a photo of her when she was partially nude without her permission and threatened to release photos of her if she told anyone about the affair, KMOV-TV reported. The couple, not publicly identified, have since divorced. Greitens admitted to the affair in February in a joint statement with his wife, Sheena. He said he'd made a “deeply personal mistake” before he was elected, and that the family had “dealt with this together honestly and privately.” […] The woman said she met Greitens in 2013 when he became a client at the hair salon where she worked, according to the report. She said that she developed a “crush” on Greitens, but when she saw him in the salon in March 2015, he “moved his hand up her leg ‘all the way up to [her] crotch’ without her consent." […] Later that month, she said Greitens asked her to come to his house when his wife was out of town. She said he did not want to be seen in public with her because he was running for office. At his house, she testified that Greitens told her he thought she hadn’t “been treated good in so long” and wanted her to exercise. She said “for whatever reason, I trusted him.” […] When the two got to the basement, the woman alleged, Greitens taped her hands to the pull-up rings and blindfolded her. She said the items he used were already on a workout bench nearby. He then spit water into her mouth, telling her she needed to be hydrated, she testified. She said it was his way of trying to kiss her, but she did not want to be kissed. Greitens began to kiss her, and he tore off the white shirt, she testified. During this time, he was also “pull[ing] down [her] pants,” but she did not give consent, she said.
Balenciaga, the storied European fashion house that gave us $850 platform Crocs, dorky dad sneakers and a $2,200 version of Ikea’s 99-cent blue plastic “Frakta” tote, is at it again. Introducing the $1,290 “T-Shirt Shirt,” which is causing a stir on social media. As the name suggests, this casual topper is essentially a T-shirt with a long-sleeved, button-down shirt sewn on top. As the website suggests, you can either wear the T-shirt with the long-sleeved shirt hanging from the front, or wear the long-sleeved shirt with the T-shirt hanging from the back. Made from 100 percent cotton, it’s available in three sizes — and is drawing a ton of ridicule, thanks to the pairing of its interesting aesthetic and hefty price tag. Actor Michael Rapaport, a “T-Shirt Shirt” hater, tweeted, “They’re selling T-Shirt Shirts for $1,290 a pop? Are they even Butter Soft though? @BALENCIAGA y’all ar [sic] crazy for this one.” Another disgruntled fashionista tweeted, “I’ll slap anyone who even tries to tell me that this is dope, Balenciaga clearly doesn’t care.” Then again, there’s at least one fan out there. As an Instagram user posted, “Only $1,290 for the tshirt shirt and $15,000 for the denim jean shirt shirt? Idk about yall but these new #balenciaga threads are [fire emoji].”
Canada is hitting back against U.S. metals tariffs with a plan to slap its own tariffs on up to $16.6 billion of U.S. exports, including beer, whiskey, steel, and aluminum. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland announced the retaliatory trade measures in a press conference Thursday hours after U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said the U.S. would apply its tariffs on steel and aluminum, starting at midnight. Freeland characterized the tariffs as “strongest trade action Canada has taken in the post-war era.” “This is a very strong response, it is a proportionate response, it is perfectly reciprocal. This is a very strong Canadian action in response to a very bad U.S. decision,” Freeland said. Trudeau posted a series of tweets about Canada’s actions, calling the U.S. tariffs “unacceptable.” Canada will impose tariffs against imports of steel, aluminum, and other products from the US – we are imposing dollar for dollar tariffs for every dollar levied against Canadians by the US. — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) May 31, 2018 Trudeau also said Canada would challenge the U.S. tariffs in the World Trade Organization. Americans remain our partners, friends, and allies. This is not about the American people. We have to believe that at some point their common sense will prevail. But we see no sign of that in this action today by the US administration. — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) May 31, 2018 “It is simply ridiculous to view any trade with Canada as a national security threat to the US and we will continue to stand up for Canadian workers & Canadian businesses,” Trudeau wrote in another tweet. The U.S. has not said that trade with Canada is a national security threat. An investigation by the Commerce Department found that a global glut of steel and aluminum, the ultimate source of which is China’s subsidized dumping of metals on world markets, was endangering the health of U.S. metals producers. The Trump administration has spent months working with trading partners to determine if there were means other than tariffs to protect U.S. steel and aluminum manufacturers from the effects of artificially low-priced metals imports. The new Canadian tariffs would are not expected to apply until July 1, according to a Canadian official.
WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump is considering giving U.S. Ambassador to Israel David Friedman more authority over the U.S. outpost that handles Palestinian affairs, five U.S. officials said, a shift that could further dampen Palestinian hopes for an independent state. Any move to downgrade the autonomy of the U.S. Consulate General in Jerusalem — responsible for relations with the Palestinians — could have potent symbolic resonance, suggesting American recognition of Israeli control over east Jerusalem and the West Bank. And while the change might be technical and bureaucratic, it could have potentially significant policy implications. As president, Trump has departed from traditional U.S. insistence on a "two-state solution" for the Mideast conflict by leaving open the possibility of just one state. As his administration prepares to unveil a long-awaited peace plan, the Palestinians have all but cut off contact, enraged by Trump's decision to move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. The deliberations come as Friedman, who has pushed for changes to the consulate since he arrived in Israel last year, faces growing indignation in the U.S. over partisan comments and other actions in which he has publicly sided with Israel over its critics. On Thursday, a top Democratic lawmaker even suggested Friedman should be recalled after he waded into domestic U.S. politics on Israel's behalf, telling an Israeli newspaper that Democrats have failed to support Israel as much as Republicans. For decades, the Jerusalem consulate has operated differently than almost every other consulate around the world. Rather than reporting to the U.S. Embassy in Israel, it has reported directly to the State Department in Washington, giving the Palestinians an unfiltered channel to engage with the U.S. government. That arrangement was relatively clear-cut before Trump moved the embassy. Until Trump's decision in December to move it from Tel Aviv, the United States did not recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital. The Jerusalem consulate provided services to Americans in Jerusalem and also served as the de facto U.S. embassy to the Palestinians, who claim east Jerusalem for the capital of a future independent state. But since Trump earlier this month moved the embassy to Jerusalem, the situation has become more complicated. Now the U.S. maintains an embassy in one part of the city and a separate consulate less than a mile away, potentially creating confusion about who has ultimate authority if, for example, an American citizen needs help and turns to the U.S. government. No final decision has been made about what changes to make to the consulate's chain of command, a decision complicated by the consulate's unique circumstances. But the embassy, run by Friedman, is expected to end up with ultimate authority over the consulate, officials said. They weren't authorized to discuss the matter publicly and requested anonymity. Dan Shapiro, the former U.S. ambassador to Israel, said such a move would be perceived as undermining Palestinians' claims to sovereignty and statehood aspirations, because it would suggest that Washington considers the Palestinian Authority to be under Israel's jurisdiction. Otherwise, Shapiro said, why would it expect the Palestinians to talk to the U.S. through its mission to Israel? "They don't want to deal with the U.S. embassy to Israel as their channel," said Shapiro, now a scholar at Israel's Institute for National Security Studies. "They want their voice to be heard directly in Washington." Typically, the head of a consulate, known as a consul general, reports to the ambassador, who has "chief of mission authority" over all U.S. posts in the country. In contrast, the consul general running the Jerusalem consulate has historically had his or her own chief of mission authority. The closest comparable case to the Jerusalem situation is the U.S. Consulate in Hong Kong, which also has its own chief of mission who does not report to the U.S. ambassador in Beijing. Friedman has advocated for having the embassy in Jerusalem subsume the consulate, officials said, although the State Department has ruled out that possibility. Other possibilities include allowing the consulate to retain some day-to-day authorities while letting the embassy set the direction for major policy decisions. Staunchly pro-Israel and with close ties to the West Bank settler movement, Friedman is broadly seen by Palestinian leadership as lacking good faith in U.S. efforts to mediate a fair resolution to the Mideast conflict. But on the consulate issue, he has an ally in the White House in the form of national security adviser John Bolton, the officials said. It wasn't clear precisely when the changes would be made, although one official said the administration is waiting until current Consul General Donald Blome leaves Jerusalem over the summer, possibly in July. Regardless of any changes, the Jerusalem consulate will remain the primary U.S. point of contact for the Palestinian Authority and for Palestinians, including those in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip seeking visas or other U.S. consular services. "Consulate General Jerusalem continues to operate as an independent mission with an unchanged mandate from its historic Agron Road location," the State Department said in a statement. Such changes would likely be carried out by Trump issuing new "letters of instruction," which delegate authorities to ambassadors and chiefs of mission, to Friedman and whoever heads the Jerusalem consulate, the official said. Separately, the Trump administration is also facing calls in Congress for the U.S. to recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, the strategic plateau that Israel captured from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war. Although Israel annexed the Golan in 1981, the U.S. and others consider it to be disputed territory with its status subject to an eventual peace deal between Israel and Syria. In recent months, however, Iran's increasing involvement in Syria and growing presence in southern Syria near the Golan Heights have drawn alarm in Israel and elsewhere, leading some U.S. law- and policy-makers to believe that the Washington should end its official neutrality in a show of support for Israeli security in the face of a threat from Iran and its proxies. Ideas under discussion range from flat-out recognition that the Golan is part of Israel to lifting restrictions on U.S. investment incentives for projects or more symbolic steps like including the area on official maps as part of Israel.
Naples-style pizza is coming to the Meatpacking District. SIMÒ Pizza will open at 90-92 Gansevoort St. in June as a fast-casual venue, with personal pizzas priced at $10 or under. Diners will order and pay at the counter by credit card — no cash accepted. Diners will then be given a number labeled on a pepper mill filled with red chili flakes, and seat themselves at communal marble tables. From there, it’s full-table service. SIMÒ Pizza is from Simone Falco, the executive chef and owner of Rossopomodoro, more of a fine dining pizzeria experience with locations in the West Village and at Eataly. The menu will feature six pizzas including vegetarian and vegan options, and three salads. The 1,300-square-foot space seats 20 people. The simple drinks menu will feature one white wine, one red wine, one prosecco, one beer option, and Italian sodas.
Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens signed right-to-work legislation Thursday, making the state the 28th to enact laws that prevent workers from having to join a union to get or keep a job. The Republican, who took office last month, had pledged to sign right-to-work as a campaign promise. His predecessor, Democrat Jay Nixon, vetoed a bill to prevent forced unionism in 2015. Greitens tweeted in celebration after signing the bill into law: Today, I signed Right to Work. This is about more jobs – Missourians are ready to work, and now our state is open for business! pic.twitter.com/xM4zY71RH1 — Eric Greitens (@EricGreitens) February 6, 2017 Kentucky enacted a similar measure in January. Indiana, Michigan, West Virginia and Wisconsin have also passed right-to-work laws in the past five years. Seven of the eight states that border Missouri — Illinois is the lone holdout — have right-to-work laws, and many lawmakers and economists say that had put the Show-Me State at a disadvantage in attracting business and industry. Among the groups that have fought the years-long battle for right-to-work in the state is Associated Industries of Missouri, a business trade association. The group argues the new law will allow the state to attract business and employment opportunities it has lost to those other states. “We thank Governor Greitens for signing this bill and allowing Missouri to compete for more jobs,” said Ray McCarty, president and CEO of AIM. New Hampshire could be next — and the first state in the Northeast to enact a right-to-work law. A measure has passed the state’s Senate and will be considered in the House next week. Republican state Rep. Stephen Schmidt, chairman of the House labor committee, told Fox News it should be a close vote. “I believe it will be a very tight vote one way or the other,” he said. If the House passes the bill, New Hampshire Republican Gov. Chris Sununu is expected to give his approval. National Right to Work Committee vice president Greg Mourad previously told Watchdog.org he is optimistic New Hampshire could be the 29th right-to-work state. “We’re optimistic about it passing in the House as well, and Gov. Sununu has said he will sign it,” Mourad said. There’s also a right-to-work movement afoot at the national level. U.S. Reps. Joe Wilson, R-S.C., and Steve King, R-Iowa, introduced last week the National Right to Work Act, which would amend the National Labor Relations Act to add a right-to-work provision. “Right-to-work states, like South Carolina, have seen first-hand that job creation and economic growth comes from expanded freedoms. We need to expand common-sense reforms, like those in the National Right to Work Act to protect American workers and create jobs,” Wilson said.
Kilauea volcano fissures have appeared throughout residential areas on Hawaii's Big Island. The rolling lava and ash plumes have forced residents to evacuate the areas as they watch their properties be consumed by flames. Here, Zivile Roditis (R) walks up her driveway as her home burns due to lava from a volcano fissure, in Leilani Estates in Pahoa, Hawaii. Getty Images
WATCH: A passerby captured the final seconds before a vintage plane crashed along the border of Dix Hills and Melville on Wednesday. pic.twitter.com/NjdoeV9SNi — CBS New York (@CBSNewYork) May 30, 2018 A stomach-churning video shows the moment a World War II-era plane spiraled out of the sky over Long Island Wednesday afternoon, dooming its pilot, according to a report. The 34-second clip obtained by CBS New York shows the propeller-driven SNJ-2 freefalling over Melville, LI, around 1:55 p.m. The vintage craft — part of the six-plane Geico Skytypers air show team — crashed into the ground minutes after takeoff from Republic Airport, exploding into a mass of flames and smoke. Pilot Ken Johansen — a 52-year-old US Naval Academy grad and vet who flew for an airline — was the only one on board the plane, officials said. Johansen is survived by his wife and two kids, according to a rep for his flight team. “A careful and thorough investigation is already underway,” the flight team said. “We are working with local law enforcement, the Federal Aviation Administration, and the National Transportation Safety Board. Our thoughts are with Ken and his family.” Additional reporting by Larry Celona
In the wake of tragedy there is often a knee jerk reaction to strip away rights but this will never be the solution. It’s time for Final Thoughts. The community of Santa Fe, Texas is still processing the horrific massacre that left 10 people, 8 students and 2 teachers, dead. Now is a time for healing, for togetherness, for prayer. It’s not the time to use this tragedy as a political prop for gun control but the left can’t help themselves and … to paraphrase Rahm Emanuel … will never let a good tragedy to go to waste. No one wants to see bullets tear through classrooms but the cold hard truth is, not a single proposed gun control measure could have stopped what happened at Santa Fe High School. The shooter, whose name is not worth mentioning, used a shotgun and a revolver he took from his father. He didn’t use a so-called “assault rifle” he didn’t legally purchase the guns he used, he is underage. He also had a pressure cooker and pipe bombs. Please tell me what gun laws would have prevented this? So why then is the left so quick to blame this on law-abiding gun owners and the NRA? What do we have to do with this? Nothing. The fact is, if you’re demanding more gun control you are admitting the hundreds of relevant gun laws on the books don’t work. How would coming up with one or 1,000 more solve the problem? It wouldn’t. But they know that, they aren’t interested in a few more laws, they are interested in eliminating the Second Amendment altogether. That’s the real goal. And even that would solve nothing. Tomi Lahren to Conservatives, Trump Supporters: 'Don't Attach Yourself to Kanye' 'Made in USA' Used to Mean Something: Tomi Lahren Says Trump Must Act to Help Cattle Ranchers You can seize all the guns you want but truth is, there will always be evil in this world and evil people will always find evil ways to carry out evil things which is the EXACT reason many of us choose to be armed. It’s not about how much we love our guns, it’s how much we love the people we protect with those guns. Yet, every time something like this happens, that’s the first and only solution the left can come up with- take away rights because it sounds good and makes you feel like you’ve done something when in reality, the only thing it would do is leave sane and safe Americans defenseless. The only way to make sure our kids and families are safe is for good guys to have guns. Imagine how much worse things could have been at Santa Fe High School if the school resource officer and Texas Department of Public Safety trooper hadn’t been there, armed, and able to engage the shooter. The same can be said about Mark Dallas, the school resource officer who stopped a school shooting in Dixon, Illinois last week. These safety measures are the way to protect kids at school. That’s why we have armed guards at some of our banks, jewelry stores, and red carpet events. So why don’t all of our schools have the same? We also need to look at our families. Guns have been around for hundreds of years, but we’ve seen a spike in routine mass shootings like this in the last 20. So what changed? The American family. The rise of absentee parents and the breakdown of the American family has absolutely contributed to this epidemic. I get it, it’s easy to go after guns, that’s the low-hanging fruit. It’s much harder to take a look at society and admit where we’ve gone wrong. It has nothing to do with the Second Amendment. Those are my final thoughts. From LA, God Bless and take care. Tomi Lahren: Great Week for Trump, Bad Week for Iran, 'Fake News Media' & Obama's Legacy Tomi Lahren on Jerusalem Embassy Dedication: Trump 'Delivered on His Promise'
Last June, Giancarlo Stanton revamped his swing, adopting a closed stance that resulted in almost immediate success in Miami. Stanton went from a home run every 14.6 plate appearances before June 19 to a homer every 9.8 plate appearances following the change. Stanton is off to a rough start with the Yankees, but he said he wouldn’t undergo any significant alterations to his wing or approach this season. “It’s too much of an adjustment to make in the middle of a season,’’ Stanton told The Post before going 1-for-2 with a walk and a sacrifice fly in Wednesday’s 5-3 win over the Astros. Reminded he made the change during the middle part of last year, Stanton said he is already dealing with a different environment in The Bronx and a new league. “To reverse everything now wouldn’t be good,’’ Stanton said. “Not with all the other new things around and the new surroundings.” Instead, he and the Yankees will have to hope minor adjustments will be enough to make a difference. “I’ve made tweaks and I feel like I’ve made some progress, but I take some steps forward and then some steps back,” Stanton said. “That’s kind of where I am right now. I’m working on little tweaks here and there.” He has hit lefties well. Since April 27, Stanton is 15-for-33 with two doubles and five homers versus southpaws, but overall, he hasn’t approached the production expected when he was acquired from the Marlins in December. The fact the Yankees have played well in spite of Stanton’s rough first two months has eased some of Stanton’s concerns, but he isn’t pleased with how his season has gone so far. “There’s absolutely frustration,” Stanton said. “But the winning helps. Even with that, though, I still need to do more and will do more. … It’s not showing on the field, but I still feel like I’m getting there.”
Ohio just modified how it calculates property taxes for agricultural lands in order to rescue farmers from soaring tax bills, but some fear the fix will eventually burden homeowners and provide less funding for some school districts. The state’s operating budget, which was signed June 30 by Gov. John Kasich, alters a complex formula used to calculate the value of agriculture lands. The original goal of the Ohio tax program was to give farmers a property tax break and encourage the preservation of farmland by valuing such property according to its agricultural value, rather than its market value. But a “perfect storm of circumstances” upended the formula in recent years, according to Jenna Beadle, director of state policy for the Ohio Farm Bureau. Farmers were hit with 300 percent spikes in their property tax bills at a time when farm income dropped by 50 percent, Beadle said. “Nonfarm factors were inflating the CAUV values,” Beadle told Watchdog.org, referring to what is known as the Current Agricultural Use Value formula. The CAUV reforms that passed Ohio’s Senate altered the formula in terms of appreciation of farmland values and equity buildup, which the author of the legislation, state Sen. Cliff Hite, R-Findlay, said was inflating the valuation of agricultural lands. The state’s Farm Bureau reports that the average savings for farmers’ land reassessments in 2017 will be about 30 percent. The changes will be phased in over six years so that the funding effects on school districts and local governments are not felt too abruptly, according to Beadle. But Dr. Howard Fleeter, a consultant with the Ohio Education Policy Institute, sees the farmland tax reforms cultivating problems in the future. There’s little dispute about farmers suffering tax spikes in recent years, Fleeter said, but since 2014, the CAUV valuations have been trending downward in a way that would have eventually provided some relief without a major formula change. “The problem is that not all farmers are getting the benefit of that formula yet …” Fleeter told Watchdog.org. “There’s a three-year lag for CAUV values taking effect.” The idea of having farmland reappraised annually to help stabilize fluctuations has been proposed , but that hasn’t happened, he said. In turn, Fleeter is concerned that the approved CAUV reforms – which he says over time will result in a $60 million property tax shift from agriculture lands to residential areas – will overly burden homeowners and reduce funding to school districts. “The pendulum swung from one end of the spectrum to the other,” he said, noting that the CAUV formula placed relatively low values on farmland in 2005, providing an 85 percent tax break to farmers, prior to reaching a peak in 2014. Although Fleeter said the goal of encouraging farmers to keep their lands in production is sound, he sees the latest reform as a blunt instrument that may cause unintended consequences. “It is possible there may be a legal challenge to this,” Fleeter said. Jim Rowan, the executive director of the Ohio Association of School Business Officials, echoed some of Fleeter’s concerns. If homeowners come away with a perception that they are being overly burdened due to the CAUV reforms, school districts may have a tougher time getting residents to approve tax increases in the future, Rowan said. But John Fortney, spokesman for Senate President Larry Obhof, R-Medina, defended lawmakers’ votes on the CAUV reforms as appropriate because Ohio farmers’ taxes had been doubling every three years. “We’re not in the business of putting family farms out of business,” Fortney told Watchdog.org. Lawmakers have also included language in the two-year budget blueprint to set aside funds – $10 million in fiscal year 2018 and $7 million in fiscal year 2019 – to help school districts whose school funding formulas are affected by the CAUV changes, he said. “The legislature was aware of the potential impact on districts that are in more rural areas and addressed that as part of the budget,” Fortney said. Overall, effects on nonagricultural properties should be minimal, he said, adding that the tax spikes farmers had faced needed to be addressed head-on to ensure fairness and sustainability. “But it is true that as the formula is adjusted on agriculture use values, there will be some type of change on the residential values,” Fortney said. Another benefit for farmers in the newly passed budget is that farmlands placed in year-round conservation to protect water quality will no longer be taxed as if they are in production, according to the Ohio Farm Bureau. Ohio’s policy to encourage farmers to preserve their lands for agriculture dates back to the 1970s. The tax program is classified as a “differential assessment,” a system used for agriculture in several other states, but agriculture officials in Ohio describe the details of the state’s program as “unique.”
President Trump’s tightened labor market, largely due to increased interior immigration enforcement, is securing higher wages for California Chick-fil-A workers. A Washington Post report reveals that a Chick-fil-A in Sacramento is looking to retain its workers in the tightened labor market by increasing wages from the current rate of about $11 an hour to up to $18 an hour. Washington Post reports: Eric Mason, owner of the Chick-fil-A location in Sacramento, told a reporter for the local ABC news affiliate KXTV that he would be raising his workers’ pay from $12 to $13 an hour to $17 to $18 an hour starting June 4, referring to the increase as a “living wage.” In California, the minimum wage is $11 for employers with 26 or more workers and will go up $1 a year until 2022. [Emphasis added] “As the owner, I’m looking at it big-picture and long-term,” Mason said in an interview with a local news station. “What that does for the business is provide consistency, someone that has relationships with our guests, and it’s going to be building a long-term culture.”
MOSCOW — Police in the capital of Ukraine say a Russian journalist has been shot and killed at his Kiev apartment. Ukrainian police said Arkady Babchenko’s wife found him bleeding at the apartment on Tuesday and called an ambulance, but Babchenko died on the way to a hospital. The 41-year-old Babchenko served in the Russian army during the first separatist war in Chechnya during the 1990s and later became a journalist. He worked as a military correspondent for several Russian media outlets. Babchenko had been scathingly critical of the Kremlin in recent years. He left Russia in February 2017, saying he was receiving threats and was concerned he might be jailed. In the fall, Babchenko moved to Kiev, where he worked as a host for the Crimean Tatar TV station, ATR.
As many in the liberal media use the racist joke posted on Twitter by Roseanne Barr as “proof” of how it reflects the racist attitude of supporters of President Donald Trump, black conservative vloggers Diamond & Silk — whose real names are Lynette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson — are fighting back against those stereotypes. The duo is also calling out ABC and others for what they perceive as a double standard in how Barr was treated. In appearances on multiple Fox News programs Wednesday and Thursday, the sisters called Barr’s tweet — which suggested former Obama White House adviser Valerie Jarrett is the offspring of the Muslim Brotherhood and the Planet of the Apes — a “mistake” that reflected “bad judgment” on the part of the comedian. But they said a bad attempt at humor should not result in someone being branded as a racist. “Roseanne, she is not a racist. She made bad judgment. She apologized for it,” Diamond pointed out. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed “One tweet don’t make you a racist,” added Silk. Barr herself tweeted her appreciation for the women’s comments. @DiamondandSilk thank u guys for knowing me & supporting me. Love 2 u- — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 31, 2018 Diamond and Silk were also upset by a tweet from MSNBC host Chris Hayes, who claimed Barr’s controversial comment was representative of the attitude of many Trump supporters. Roseanne’s problem turned out to be that she far too authentically represented the actual worldview of a significant chunk of the Trump base. — Chris Hayes (@chrislhayes) May 30, 2018 “That’s not the representation of the Trump base,” Diamond said. “We’re loving, caring people. We’re not racists. We love God, we love this country, so how dare he say that.” Do you agree with Diamond & Silk's claims of a media double standard? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “We’re not racists,” Silk added. “Our president is not racist, he is a realist and the only color he sees is green, and he wants everybody to have some.” Diamond and Silk also claim there’s a double standard in effect, noting that former MSNBC host and current ESPN commentator Keith Olbermann often uses profanity in his tweets criticizing Trump and his supporters. “We had to block Keith Olbermann on Twitter because he’s so nasty,” Diamond said. They also noted how ABC tolerates personalities like Joy Behar, Whoopi Goldberg and Jimmy Kimmel making insulting remarks about Trump and his supporters on a daily basis. RELATED: Ingraham Attacks Advertisers Who Left Her Show: ‘They All Gave In to the Mob’ “Look at all the other shows on ABC that make these derogatory racist remarks toward the president of the United States, toward his supporters,” Diamond said. “They’re still on air every single day.” .@DiamondandSilk: The left has tried to assassinate President Trump’s character, and there’s been no apology pic.twitter.com/cXICw0V0Gl — FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) May 31, 2018 The sisters also criticized the black community for calling out whites for racist remarks, but tolerating racism from their own side. “If this is a teachable moment, open it up. If we’re going to talk about racism, let’s talk about it on both sides,” Diamond said. “We’re called monkeys, we’re called coons and all kind of derogatory names every day. Everybody want to be mad at Roseanne who happens to be a white woman, and you want to call her a racist. What about the racism on the other side? We have black brothers and sisters calling other black brothers and sisters all kinds of derogatory names. “If we’re going to have a conversation (about racism), let’s tell the truth … and not just be one sided.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The TBS network applauded comedian Samantha Bee for apologizing Thursday for incendiary remarks she made about White House adviser (and presidential daughter) Ivanka Trump the day before. TBS, which is owned by Time Warner — the same company that owns CNN — hosts Bee’s show, Full Frontal. On Wednesday, Bee called Ms. Trump a “feckless c*nt” and suggested that she seduce her father into changing his policies on immigration: Ivanka Trump, who works at the White House, chose to post the second most oblivious tweet we’ve seen this week. You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c*nt. He listens to you. Put on something tight and low-cut and tell your father to fucking stop it. Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes, OK? Observers noted that Bee’s remarks came just one day after comedian Roseanne Barr lost her show because of a racial joke she told at the expense of former President Barack Obama’s former senior advisor, Valerie Jarrett. At least one advertiser, Autotrader, dropped Bee’s show. The White House called on executives at TBS and Time Warner to take action to “demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network.” Bee apologized on Thursday, via Twitter: I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it. — Samantha Bee (@iamsambee) May 31, 2018 TBS responded by applauding Bee’s apology, and adding an apology of its own: Statement from TBS: “Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night. Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” And…scene. — Judy Kurtz (@JudyKurtz) May 31, 2018 However, neither TBS nor Time Warner appeared to have taken any other action. Neither have indicated that CEO Jeff Bewkes will follow the lead of Disney CEO Bob Iger, who personally called Valerie Jarrett to apologize for a tweet from Roseanne Barr, who then worked for Disney subsidiary ABC. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.
Miami Herald: Want to speak up about your city’s new budget? Irma may make you wait for that, too. Hurricane Irma could delay the voices of some Florida taxpayers from being heard. It was an unavoidable case of timing. The powerful hurricane bore down on the state as cities, counties, school boards and other taxing bodies were scheduling public hearings required by law before they can revise their tax rates for the new fiscal year. The public hearings are usually held in September. (The fiscal year for local governments begins on Oct. 1, and the state fiscal year begins July 1.) The executive director of the state Department of Revenue, Leon Biegalski, issued an order on Sept. 6, temporarily waiving the timing requirement for local taxing authorities to hold public hearings. The directive was based on Gov. Rick Scott’s executive order Sept. 4 that declared a statewide emergency in Florida in advance of Hurricane Irma’s arrival. Biegalski’s order reads in part: “The Department, in the interest of public safety, hereby waives the timing compliance requirements of the following statutes and rules to the extent necessary to meet the emergency declared in EO 17-235 [Scott‘s executive order] and provides additional specific requirements with respect to local taxing authorities holding their millage and budget hearings to ensure consistent adequate notice is provided to taxpayers.” Times Union: Worker morale a hidden cost for employers after Hurricane Irma CSX and EverBank have reopened downtown. So has The Jacksonville Landing. Wells Fargo has not. Neither has European Street or Bistro Aix and there’s no telling how long it will take for those two San Marco mainstays to resume business. As Jacksonville dries out after Hurricane Irma’s deluge and straightens up from its wind, area businesses are getting back to work. Most of them anyway. So many businesses were affected in so many ways, from high water to downed trees. Grocery stores opened, but many had empty shelves and freezers that had to be emptied because everything hadn’t stayed frozen. Restaurants opened with limited menus and many other businesses opened with limited staff. Tampa Tribune: Florida’s office of insurance regulation issues emergency order David Altmaier, commissioner of the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, issued an emergency order Wednesday that protects policyholders from from abuse by their insurance companies in the aftermath of Hurricane Irma. “Given the strength and size of Hurricane Irma, its catastrophic effect on Florida, stretching from coast to coast and its potential impact on hundreds of thousands of policyholders, the office expects all insurers and regulated entities to implement processes and procedures to facilitate the efficient payment of claims,” the order said. The order allows policyholders an extra 90 days to give information to their insurance company, bans raising rates on policyholders for 90 days and bars insurance companies from canceling or not renewing policies related to homes damaged by the storm for 90 days.
Volcker? We barely knew her! The Federal Reserve approved a plan to scale back a controversial Obama-era rule that limited certain types of risky trading — but got blamed for making the financial crisis worse. The restrictions, codified in a section of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law called the “Volcker rule,” all but killed the ability of banks with federally insured deposits to trade with their own accounts. The rule, named after the former Fed chairman Paul Volcker, was one of the most hated on Wall Street since it limited profits at firms like Goldman Sachs, which depend on trading revenue. The revamp, which the Fed approved on Wednesday, would ease some of those rules, which Wall Street has called overly complicated and unfair. “This proposal represents our best first effort at simplifying and tailoring the Volcker rule,” Randy Quarles, the Fed’s vice chairman, said ahead of the Wednesday vote. Still, the proposed rules come after several Wall Street banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, reported their most profitable quarters ever, thanks to heightened trading and tax breaks. In addition to the changes to the trading restrictions, “Volcker 2.0,” as the rules are being called, would allow banks to police their own trading through their compliance departments, and cuts down on how much trading information needs to be reported to regulators. “What is critical is that simplification not undermine the core principle at stake — that taxpayer-supported banking groups, of any size, not participate in proprietary trading at odds with the basic public and customers’ interests,” Paul Volcker said in a statement. “I trust the final rule will strongly maintain that position by, as intended, facilitating its practical application.” Wall Street critics sought to paint the changes as dangerous to the markets and could lead to another financial collapse. The new rule is set to be voted on by four other regulators, and is subject to a 90-day comment period. “This proposal is no minor set of technical tweaks to the Volcker Rule, but an attempt to unravel fundamental elements of the response to the 2008 financial crisis, when banks financed their gambling with taxpayer-insured deposits,” said Marcus Stanley, policy director at Americans for Financial Reform. In 2011, less than a year after Congress passed Dodd-Frank, reports surfaced that Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein was personally trying to water down the rules to keep it from costing the bank as much as $3.7 billion a year in revenue. “They’re totally freaked out about Volcker,” an unnamed Goldman lobbyist told Reuters at the time. “People are working on that a lot, with agency staff, with lawmakers, you name it.”
Jets rookie quarterback Sam Darnold showed some improvement in the second OTA practice of the spring that was open to the media after a tough day last week. While the throws were mainly short, Darnold showed more poise than he did in the first practice witnessed by the media, and coach Todd Bowles said Darnold is improving. “He’s been progressing,” Bowles said. “Obviously, installing the offense and putting everything in on defense, he’s seeing things for the first time on both sides of the ball. As the days go by, he’s getting more comfortable. He’s just got to keep working at it and getting better.” The Jets did not make Darnold available to speak to the media after practice. Darnold got 20 reps in the practice, six more than either Josh McCown or Teddy Bridgewater. He took eight reps with the first-team offense, something he did not do last week. Bowles said not to read into the first-team reps. But it is a sign the Jets are going to test Darnold at times. see also What Sam Darnold showed his competition on Jets Day 1 This was a day that should serve as a reminder,... He completed 8-of-10 passing and threw no interceptions in team drills. He threw one pick in 7-on-7 drills on a deep, desperation heave that Terrence Brooks hauled in. His prettiest pass of the day was a sideline pass to Robby Anderson that he perfectly placed so only Anderson could grab it. Bowles said this quarterback group has clicked better than previous quarterback groups he has had with the Jets. “I think from a chemistry standpoint with the three around each other, it’s the most together — from an experience standpoint and a young talent standpoint — we’ve been in the room,” Bowles said. “We think we have three good quarterbacks that we can play with. We’ll see how much better they can get going forward.” Bowles said second-year safety Marcus Maye won’t practice this spring, but should be ready for training camp. Maye had ankle surgery after last season. WR Devin Smith is also sitting out the spring practices as he recovers from his second torn ACL, suffered last April. Smith, the team’s second-round pick in 2015, has played in only 14 games over three injury-riddled seasons. He may have a tough time making the team this season with a crowded wide-receivers room. “There’s not much you can show when you’re injured. He’s had some serious injuries. It’s not his fault,” Bowles said. “Sometimes things like that happen. Until he gets out on the field, it’s going to be an unknown. First and foremost, he has to get healthy, and then we’ll judge him if he can get on the field.” CB Trumaine Johnson was not at Tuesday’s OTA. Bowles said he was aware Johnson was going to miss the voluntary session.
Lava burns trees as it flows toward the ocean near Pahoa, Hawaii. Two fissures that opened up in a rural Hawaii community have merged to produce faster and more fluid lava. Scientists say the characteristics of lava oozing from fissures in the ground has changed significantly as new magma mixes with decades-old stored lava. AP
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. After a landslide loss in the 1972 presidential election, the Democratic Party was resuscitated the following year by the Watergate scandal. The destruction of the Nixon presidency powered the Democrats to make huge political gains in the 1974 elections. Watergate also birthed (or perhaps rebirthed) modern investigative journalism. A young generation of maverick reporters supposedly alone had challenged the establishment in order to uncover the whole truth about abuses of power by the Nixon administration. Liberalism rode high during the Watergate era. It had demanded that civil liberties be protected from the illegal or unconstitutional overreach of the Nixon-era FBI, CIA and other agencies. Liberals alleged that out-of-control officials had spied on U.S. citizens for political purposes and then tried to mask their wrongdoing under the cover of "national security" or institutional "professionalism." All those legacies are now eroding. The Democratic Party, the investigative media and liberalism itself are now weirdly on the side of the reactionary administrative state. They have either downplayed or excused Watergate-like abuses of power by the former Barack Obama administration. Liberal journalists apparently have few concerns that the FBI apparently used at least one secret informant to gather information about the 2016 Trump campaign. Nor are they much bothered that members of the Obama national security team unmasked the names of U.S. citizens who had been improperly surveilled. Many of those names then were illegally leaked to the press. Democrats seem indifferent to the fact that Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign paid a foreign agent, Christopher Steele, to compile dirt on Republican candidate Donald Trump -- largely by trafficking in unverified rumors from Russian interests. Obama administration officials leaked details from that dossier. Civil libertarians appear unconcerned that the Department of Justice sought to deceive the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, getting it to grant warrants to allow the surveillance of U.S. citizens based on the suspect and politically motivated Steele dossier. Few are upset that former CIA Director John Brennan and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper have lied under oath to Congress on matters pertaining to surveillance. Rather than being investigated by the media, both are now making frequent media appearances. The FBI cannot remain credible when its former director, James Comey, leaks confidential memos about meetings with the president to the media -- with the expressed intent of leveraging the appointment of a special counsel, Robert Mueller, who turned out to be a longtime friend of Comey's. Why have the former guardians of civil liberties flipped in the near half-century since Watergate? One, both the media and the liberal establishment believed that the outsider Trump represented an existential danger to themselves and the nation at large -- similar to the way operatives in the Nixon administration had felt about far-left presidential challenger George McGovern in 1972. But this time around, liberals were not out of power as they were in 1972. Instead, they were the establishment. They held the reins of federal power under the Obama administration. And they chose to exercise it in a fashion similar to how Nixon's team had in 1972. Second, pollsters and the media were convinced that Hillary Clinton would be elected. As a result, members of the FBI, CIA and other federal bureaucracies apparently assumed that any extralegal efforts to stop the common menace Trump would be appreciated rather than punished by a soon-to-be President Clinton. Three, those in the Obama administration, the Clinton campaign and the media formed an echo chamber. All convinced themselves that any means necessary to achieve the noble ends of precluding a Trump presidency were justified. The danger of such groupthink continues; even now they are unaware of the impending bomb that is about to go off. Public opinion has radically changed. A majority of Americans believe the Muller investigation is politically motivated, according to a CBS News poll. The inspector general's report on the FBI's handling of the Clinton email scandal is soon due. It will likely detail violations of ethics and laws among Obama administration officials and may include criminal referrals. Already, a few liberals and former Clinton supporters are warning the left that it is on the wrong side of history and about to reverse the entire post-Watergate liberal tradition. There is a reckoning on the horizon. It has nothing to do with Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. Instead, the traditional, self-appointed watchdogs of government overreach have turned into the carnivores of civil liberties.
Because I showcased some of the most ridiculous rhetoric and "outrage" surrounding the immigration issue earlier in the week, I figured I owe it to you to highlight this surprisingly rational and measured take from a fairly unlikely source. First, imagine watching your spouse get detained and deported by ICE agents after he or she had lived and raised a family in America for three decades, having otherwise being a law-abiding and productive member of society. Now imagine being invited to talk about that ordeal on CNN and saying...this (via the Free Beacon): &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;span class="fr-marker" data-id="0" data-type="true" style="display: none; line-height: 0;"&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;span class="fr-marker" data-id="0" data-type="false" style="display: none; line-height: 0;"&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt; "I am not upset at our government due to the fact that I am a U.S. citizen and that our laws come first. Our laws are just broken and need to be fixed, but I can't be mad at Trump for doing his job because that is his job to protect us, as U.S. citizens, from criminals. The only thing is my husband was not a criminal and those are the laws that need to be fixed because they are broken for the people … brought as children, doing the right thing, and have never committed a crime. For the criminals that have come here illegally, they need to go back." That's a pretty damn strong answer from a woman whose life has been turned upside down by the enforcement of our immigration laws against her husband -- whom she stresses is not a criminal. She's basically saying, "don't hate the player, hate the game," in response to questions about any anger she may want to direct at the Trump administration: Our laws say X, and it's Trump's job to apply and carry out those laws, so let's fix the laws to make them more fair. How refreshingly pragmatic and reasonable. Kudos to her. And even if you disagree with her support for a path to citizenship that focuses deportation efforts against criminal aliens, I'll remind you that those views are squarely within the American mainstream, including among conservatives: Maybe it's time to stop saying that the GOP base and Trump voters will be enraged if the Dreamers are protected. Look at these numbers:https://t.co/Q3IkMj7DMp pic.twitter.com/xSqMSwKqCR — Greg Sargent (@ThePlumLineGS) January 11, 2018 Then again, so are several key elements of Trump's proposal, which went down in flames in the Senate (along with every "compromise" bill). Can we at least agree that this isn't the sort of person our laws should be targeting -- even if he was technically too old to qualify for DACA (which still hasn't been resolved)? Jorge Garcia immigrated to the United States when he was 10. He and his wife met in Detroit and started working on ways to get him legal status in 2005. Cindy Garcia, a retired autoworker, said the first lawyer they hired botched the paperwork, sending him into deportation proceedings. For 13 years, her husband checked in regularly with Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials, she said, never leaving their town without permission...All the while, he paid his taxes and stayed out of trouble, his wife said. He appears to have no criminal record in the United States. His wife and children are all American citizens. You can be a relatively strong immigration and border hawk and still conclude that our federal resources aren't put to effective use by kicking out people like Mr. Garcia, and that a more rational system would help avoid situations like this. I'll stop short of calling his plight an injustice, because the law is being followed, but this example is certainly a poster child for our dysfunctional status quo. Finally, if you're interested in learning about an unequivocal injustice -- and one that the president can and should rectify -- please give this post (and this one) a careful read:
The Hamptons may be synonymous with beach living, but its beautiful villages are also booming. In Sag Harbor, a whaling town founded in 1707, buyers are trading the waterfront for the charm of historic American architecture — not to mention the convenience of a year-round town. Currently, three vintage beauties straight out of “Moby-Dick” are on the market along a stretch of Sag Harbor’s Main Street — known as Captain’s Row. “During the winter, the Hamptons can get very lonely,” says David Cox of Corcoran, who marketed 245 Main St., an 1870s whaler’s cottage with custom millwork, leaded-glass windows and hand-pegged wood beams, for $5.9 million (it’s currently in contract). The 5,100-square-foot, five-bedroom house has been given a respectful update that includes a swimming pool and clever smart-home technology. “But part of the charm of Sag Harbor is waking up when there is snow on the ground and walking into the village.” Nearer to the bay, 330 Main St. is a carefully renovated 1840s captain’s home, with a classic wood-shingle facade and a $3.3 million price tag. It has four bedrooms and three bathrooms, plus a library, six fireplaces, landscaping and impressive water views from practically every room. A bit farther down Captain’s Row — across from the Sag Harbor Whaling and Historical Museum — 207 Main St. is asking $3.9 million. The Federal-design, three-bedroom, two-bathroom masterpiece was built in 1789. Its recent renovation blends modern amenities (like central air) with 18th-century charm (shutters and original hardwood floors).
Led by the dynamic Anna Throne-Holst, the Swedish-American Chamber of Commerce in New York is completing a deal to move to the full, 18,294-square-foot 29th floor of the Paramount Group’s 900 Third Ave. Sources say the below-market, four-year sublease from Virtu Financial includes furniture, and the modern open plan has Central Park views. The location will become its offices and a physical gateway for a new SACCNY platform to enhance its support of Swedish firms that want to expand or seek a foothold in America. According to its Web site, the offices will also provide members with low-cost space for networking, meet-ups, conference and events for all things Swedish. Throne-Holst, the former Southampton supervisor who lost the congressional race against Rep. Lee Zeldin in 2016, was hired as the SACCNY president in March 2017. Founded in 1906, the group includes major companies like Skanska, Volvo and SAS as well as individuals. But so far, sources said, Stockholm-based music behemoth Spotify hasn’t joined the local booster club. The active Chamber also hosts events and major conferences around the world to support techies and startups, sustainability and women. Nicholas Gilman, Gordon Ogden and Caxton Kaback of Byrnam Wood represented the SACCNY in the sublease and is marketing its current 3,580 square feet at 570 Lexington Ave. Byrnam Wood declined comment. Virtu was represented by Michael Lenchner of Sage Realty along with the JLL team of Cynthia Wasserberger and Kristen Morgan, who either could not be reached or declined comment. Virtu, a technology-honed publicly traded market maker completed a $1.4 billion acquisition of KCG Holdings in July 2017 and moved into its much larger offices at 300 Vesey St., aka One North End Ave.
If the Justice Department and FBI are, as we've been told incessantly over the past year, not merely patriots but consummate professionals incapable of being distracted by partisanship or petty Washington intrigues, why are Donald Trump's antagonists freaking out over the fact that an inspector general will assess whether political motivation tainted an investigation into the president's campaign? The American people should get a full accounting of what transpired during 2016. Isn't that what we've been hearing since the election? You believe President Trump is corrupt. We get it. But surely anyone who alleges to be concerned about the sanctity of our institutions and rule of law would have some cursory curiosity about whether an investigation by the administration of one major party into the presidential campaign of another major party was grounded in direct evidence rather than fabulist rumormongering. Otherwise any administration, including Trump's, could initiate an investigation for whatever cooked-up superficial reason it wants. Then, when a constitutionally empowered oversight committee demands information about that investigation, the DOJ could accuse it of "extortion" and stonewall for years. I don't know if there's a big conspiracy by the deep state. I doubt it, in fact. But it's pretty obvious to me that leaders of our institutions aren't above spying. Then-CIA Director John Brennan spied on the legislative branch and lied about it to the American people. Then-Director of National Intelligence James Clapper spied on the American people through a domestic surveillance program and lied about it to Congress. Although the Obama administration never tweeted nasty attacks on journalists, it did spy on and prosecute them. It's completely plausible that those in the upper echelon of law enforcement saw Trump as a threat and then used wobbly evidence as the pretext to investigate his campaign. If not, it'll be good to clear their names. A truly silly New York Times headline last week read "FBI Used Informant to Investigate Russia Ties to Campaign, Not to Spy, as Trump Claims." You can call it whatever makes you happy, but in the real world, the act of furtively gathering information about someone else is called spying. Perhaps all of this will lead to nothing exciting. Perhaps the competing narratives that have sprung up around Trump and Russia will end far less dramatically than either of their champions hope. But when rule-of-law enthusiasts keep arguing the DOJ is independent of the president and then turn around and argue that a congressional oversight committee shouldn't have the right to ask the executive branch for documents pertaining to its inquiry, one begins to suspect that perhaps some of the hyperbolic rhetoric we've been hearing over the past two years has been little more than partisanship. Most of those arguing that Trump is attacking the constitutional system by demanding the DOJ investigate its conduct know well that he has full authority to do so. Many sat quietly for eight years of executive abuse. It's not as if the president instructed the DOJ to stop following the law, after all. He had as much ammunition to ask for an investigation as Democrats had when asking for a special counsel. Presidents ask the DOJ to do all kinds of things all the time. If the attorney general doesn't like it, he can resign. If the folks running the DOJ or FBI don't like it, they can quit. If Congress doesn't like it, it can impeach the president. That's the constitutional system under which every president, including Trump, functions. Is Trump pushing the issue for political reasons? Of course. If special counsel Robert Mueller doesn't come back with any evidence of collusion -- all the other indictments and criminality he has found matter, of course, but they have nothing to do with the impetus for the investigation -- it will be all the more important to figure out what the previous administration was up to. Precedent and history matter. The New York Times recently ran a 4,000-word ostensible overview of the FBI's Trump-Russia probe, which fed the impression that investigators were tougher on a hapless Hillary Clinton -- whose accidental blunders and honest mistakes ruined her chances of election -- but ignored Trump's nefarious ties to a foreign power. The problem with this tale, as it stands now, is that there was an abundance of evidence suggesting that Clinton was engaged in criminal activity -- sending numerous classified and top-secret documents via unsecured servers, destroying evidence, etc. Perhaps Mueller will bring the goods at some point. But to this point, there has not been any evidence to back up the hysteria that followed 2016. It's completely reasonable to find out what prompted it. If, as I've been assured by numerous smart people, the FBI and DOJ would never ever engage in such partisanship or recklessness -- or maybe ineptitude -- then a methodical accounting of events leading up to the special counsel investigation would help them.
The Cuomo administration fired a top agency administrator after a state probe substantiated accusations of sexual misconduct, officials revealed Wednesday. Former Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs boss Jay Kiyonaga engaged in “improper and sexually inappropriate acts” toward female subordinates, state Inspector General Catherine Leahy Scott said in a letter to the Justice Center and the agency where he was most recently employed, the Office for People with Developmental Disabilities. “The specific acts and pattern of conduct described to my office under oath — ranging from inappropriate sexual comments and comments about employee’s sexual preferences to an unwanted sexual physical contact with an employee — are reprehensible and indefensible,” Leahy said. The Post first reported on sexual harassment claims against Kiyonaga made by Patricia Gunning, the former special prosecutor/inspector general for the Justice Center, last October. Gunning said when she complained about his behavior, Kiyonaga retaliated and forced her resignation. Gunning also contacted Melissa De Rosa, the governor’s top deputy, about the claims following her ouster. De Rosa then referred her Gunning’s complaint to the IG’s office to investigate. One female subordinate testified that Kiyonaga attempted “sexual physical contact” with her during an after-hours social gathering at a bar in 2015, according to the letter. The same witness said he would also talk “about dreams that he had that were of a sexual nature involving staff members.” Another woman said Kiyonaga once “reached out and kind of caressed my leg to feel the fabric” of her blue pants, which was witnessed by six other staff members. The same staffer said Kiyonaga once asked her if she knew the definition of “Blumpkin” and told him she did not. “It’s when the guy sits on a toilet, gets oral sex and passes feces at the same time,” the witness recalled Kiyonaga saying. Another female staffer said the married Kiyonaga discussed women’s figures with comments like “nice boobs, nice ass” and suggested he had open relationship. Gunning, who on Tuesday filed a sex discrimination against the Justice Center and Kiyonaga with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, said he regularly and inappropriately “turn the conversation to something sexual” and “pointed out I had a real knack for picking hot girls for my team” and that he had “heard that one person on my staff was bi-sexual and he wanted to know if I knew that and wasn’t it hot.” Kiyonaga, the number two person at the OPWDD after transferring from the Justice Center, was fired Wednesday. “OPWDD does not tolerate harassment of any kind. Based on the findings of the Inspector General’s Office, Mr. Kiyonaga has been terminated by our agency,” said OPWDD spokeswoman Jennifer O’Sullivan. Gunning, through her lawyer, applauded Kiyonaga’s ouster. “MeToo has finally arrived in New York State government. For years, Ms. Gunning felt ostracized and alone as she suffered sexual discrimination and retaliation at work. Today, she is vindicated. We urge every single victim of Mr. Kiyonaga’s misconduct to come forward and share their experience,” said Ilann Maazel, of Emery Celli Brinckerhoff & Abady.
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) — The Latest from the NBA Finals and Thursday’s Game 1 (all times local): 8:50 p.m. The Golden State Warriors pulled out a 124-114 overtime victory over Cleveland in Game 1 of the NBA Finals after a bizarre ending to regulation. The game went to OT after Cleveland’s J.R. Smith failed to take the go-ahead shot after a missed free throw, apparently believing the Cavaliers led by one when it was tied. The Warriors took advantage of their second chance, opening OT with a 9-0 run to blow it open. LeBron James’ highest-scoring postseason game was wasted, as he finished with 51 points. ___ 8:30 p.m. Cleveland and Golden State are headed to overtime in Game 1 of what is LeBron James’ highest-scoring game ever in the NBA Finals. George Hill made a free throw with 4.7 seconds to tie the game, but J.R. Smith apparently didn’t realize the game was tied when he grabbed the rebound of the missed second shot. Smith dribbled backward toward midcourt as teammates pointed toward the basket, and the Cavs couldn’t get a potential winning shot off. James has 49 points. The teams also went to OT in Game 1 in 2015, with the Warriors pulling out the victory after Kyrie Irving was injured. ___ 8:15 p.m. The 3-pointers haven’t been falling much in Game 1 of the NBA Finals, but the Warriors got a couple to go to give them a six-point lead heading to the final stretch. Draymond Green, who had been struggling badly from outside, snapped a 94-all tie with a 3-pointer with a little more than 5 minutes left. Stephen Curry followed with one to give the Warriors a 100-94 advantage. Curry has five 3-pointers but the Warriors are just 10 for 32 as a team. LeBron James has 40 points for the Cavaliers. ___ 7:55 p.m. Golden State tried to throw its third-quarter knockdown punch in Game 1 of the NBA Finals, but Cleveland took it pretty well. The Warriors lead 84-78 but it appeared it could be worse after they raced to a quick seven-point lead. Cleveland erased that but Golden State spurted away again a bit toward the end of what’s so often been its dominant period. LeBron James went to the bench for his second break of the game after missing five straight shots in the quarter. He also matched Michael Jordan during the period by reaching 30 points for the 109th time in a postseason game. ___ 7:35 p.m. JaVale McGee got his chance and is making the most of it. The center was inserted into the starting lineup in the second half of Game 1 of the NBA Finals and is making an impact on both ends as the Warriors surged into a 66-59 lead. McGee had played in only nine of Golden State’s 17 games entering the NBA Finals —and only three minutes total in the Western Conference finals— but was sent out with the first unit when the teams returned from the locker rooms. He played terrific defense on LeBron James on one possession, and later had two baskets to spark another impressive third-quarter start for the Warriors. .___ 7:10 p.m. Stephen Curry got the Warriors back to even, and now they get ready for their favorite part of the game. Curry drained a 3-ponter from about 30 feet to beat the halftime buzzer, tying Game 1 of the NBA Finals Thursday night at 56-all. Golden State had trailed by 11 points earlier in the second quarter before a strong finish. Curry had 18 points, while LeBron James led all scorers with 24. Now the teams regroup before a quarter the Warriors dominate. They have outscored opponents 519-389 in the postseason, a difference of 130 points, and turned around both Game 6 and 7 against Houston in the Western Conference finals with huge runs in that period. ___ 7:05 p.m. LeBron James actually got a rest in the NBA Finals. After playing all 48 minutes in Game 7 of the Eastern Conference finals, James sat down midway through the second quarter. He earned it. James had 20 points on 8-for-9 shooting to carry Cleveland to a 51-45 lead over Golden State. Kevin Love also is playing well with nine points and Larry Nance Jr. is giving Cleveland a lift off the bench. But Kevin Durant, the MVP of last year’s NBA Finals, is struggling. He started 2 for 8 for six points, missing all three 3-point attempts. Stephen Curry was keeping the Warriors close with 15 points. ___ 6:40 p.m. The Cavaliers have the lead but the Warriors appear to have good news. Klay Thompson returned from the locker room just before the first quarter ended with Cleveland leading 30-29. The All-Star guard missed about half the period after J.R. Smith slid into his left leg while trying to intercept a pass, knocking Thompson to the court. He got treatment for what the Warriors said was a left lateral leg contusion and returned to the bench to cheers as the period was about to end. LeBron James had 12 points on 4-for-4 shooting, while Stephen Curry had 11 for the Warriors. Both teams had to be pleased with their starts after falling behind early and having to climb back in their Game 7 victories in the conference finals. ___ 6:30 p.m. Golden State guard Klay Thompson has gone to the locker room, limping gingerly after J.R. Smith slid hard into the Warriors left leg at the 6:17 mark of the first quarter. Thompson lay grimacing in pain, slapping his hands on the court immediately after the play. Thompson appeared to injure the same left knee he hurt in the Western Conference finals. Smith was making a play on the ball when he seemed to unintentionally undercut Thompson, who did return to the Warriors’ bench after being treated in the locker room. ___ 6:10 p.m. The NBA Finals are underway at what’s become their usual starting spot. It’s the fourth straight season Golden State is hosting Cleveland in Game 1. No teams had ever met this many consecutive times in the NBA, NFL, Major League Baseball or the NHL in the championship round. The Cavaliers had their preferred starting lineup, with Kevin Love cleared to return from a concussion that forced him to sit out Game 7 of the Eastern Conference finals. But the Warriors can’t turn to 2015 NBA Finals MVP Andre Iguodala, who remains sidelined by a bone bruise in his leg. Cleveland has dropped Game 1 in two of its series in this postseason, and all three NBA Finals matchups with the Warriors. ___ 5:15 p.m. Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue says he is being treated for anxiety and that the NBA playoffs bring him so much joy. Lue said before Game 1 of the NBA Finals that he realizes there are so many people dealing with challenges in life, so his story may help others. Lue took a leave of absence on March 19 for health reasons and when he returned April 5 acknowledged he experienced “piercing” chest pains during two games this season. The coach says he has heard from many people offering support since his ESPN interview during which he revealed the anxiety. Lue says “the biggest thing is that I feel good and talking to my doctor, one of my happy places is the playoffs.” Warriors coach Steve Kerr says he spoke with Lue by phone and traded text messages with him. Kerr says his main message to Lue was that “you can’t allow what feels like the enormity of the job to interfere with your health and your recovery and whatever you need to do. I just told him the team will still be there when you get back … just kind of a reminder that we’re playing a sport.” ___ 4:55 p.m. LeBron James always wears shorts at work. For Game 1 of the NBA Finals, he wore shorts TO work. The fashion-forward James showed up at Oracle Arena on Thursday night wearing jacket, shirt, tie, boots — and shorts. “No comment,” Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue said, grinning. ___ 3:40 p.m. Cleveland and Golden State are playing for the following: The NBA championship, bragging rights, the chance to host a parade, rings, banners, cool hats and T-shirts. And cash. Game 1 of the NBA Finals tips off in about 3 hours and the league’s playoff pool will richly reward the champion this year. The winning team in these NBA Finals will get $1,194,949 more in bonus money than the losing team in this matchup. The total pool was $20 million this season, paid out to all 16 postseason teams based on how they finished in the regular season and how deep they went in the playoffs. Golden State will get $5,188,122 if it wins, $3,993,173 if it loses. Cleveland splits $5,020,439 if it wins, $3,825,490 if it loses. From the non-finals teams, Houston gets the biggest share of the pie, with $2,322,122 going to the Rockets. Milwaukee, San Antonio, Minnesota and Washington all get the smallest amount, that being $298,485 each. ___ 2:55 p.m. The Warriors are bigger favorites in Game 1 of the NBA Finals than they were for most other home games this season. Golden State was favored by 12 1/2 points as of Thursday morning. According to Pregame.com, the Warriors were favored by a margin that large in only 12 of their 50 games at Oracle Arena, counting the postseason. The Warriors have won Game 1 in each of the previous three NBA Finals matchups with the Cavaliers, all at Oracle Arena, by an average of 15 points. Overall, Pregame.com says the odds give Golden State an 89 percent chance to win the title, making the Cavaliers the biggest NBA Finals underdogs since Philadelphia against the Lakers in 2001. Los Angeles won that series in five games. ___ 2:10 p.m. The G League is now a road to not just the NBA, but the NBA Finals. There are a combined 11 players on the Cleveland and Golden State rosters that have spent time in the G League, and seven who were in that league at some point this season. Many of those G League alums are likely to play in Game 1 of the NBA Finals on Thursday night. Kevon Looney, Shaun Livingston, Jordan Bell and Quinn Cook have been regulars for the Warriors in these playoffs, as has Jordan Clarkson been for the Cavaliers. The NBA says 53 percent of the players on rosters at the end of the regular season were in the G League at some point. ___ 6 a.m. The NBA Finals start up right where they finished last year. And right where they’ve opened every year since 2015. Golden State hosts Cleveland on Thursday night to begin the record fourth straight meeting between the teams. It’s the first time in NBA, NFL, MLB or NHL history that the same teams are meeting four straight times in the championship round. The Warriors have had home-court advantage each time and won Game 1 in all three series. They went on to win last year’s title in five games. Golden State will be without 2015 NBA Finals MVP Andre Iguodala as he continues to recover from a bone bruise in his left knee. The Cavaliers are waiting to see if Kevin Love will be cleared to play after missing Game 7 of the Eastern Conference finals with a concussion.
Sandra Bullock sailed through a Georgia House Democratic primary by doing almost nothing – literally. Then, a week later, bowed out. No, it’s not “America’s Sweetheart” Sandra Bullock, who starred in “The Blind Side” and “Miss Congeniality.” It’s a retired Georgia Tech database administrator Sandra Bullock, who lives in Smyrna, Ga. Bullock, who would not respond to Fox News’ inquiries, didn’t knock on doors, hand out campaign signs or set up social media accounts pushing for her win. “I thought, let’s see what my silly name will do, and I won!” Bullock told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. “Apparently, name recognition and voting for Democratic women counts for a lot.” In Georgia, sharing a name with someone famous seems to carry weight – even for candidates with no political experience and who make little effort to win their race. On the same day Bullock won, Viola Davis unseated State Rep. Earnest “Coach” Williams for the Democratic primary in District 87. Williams had served on the state House since 2003. Davis, a veteran, registered nurse and long-time community activist, told Fox News she appreciates sharing the name of a well-liked celebrity and Oscar winner and admits it probably helped her earn some votes. But, unlike Bullock, Davis actually made an effort to win. Davis said she knocked on nearly 4,500 doors in the neighborhood. She is running unopposed in the general election. “Believe me when I say, it was hard work,” Davis said. “My body is feeling it right now.” On Wednesday, Bullock abruptly pulled out of the race, citing health reasons. But before she quit, her opponent, Erick Allen, a talent management consultant, said he was taken aback that someone who did not bother campaigning won the primary. "We have to have a serious discussion about voter education and engagement. The fact that ‘Sandra Bullock’ won and a long term incumbent lost to ‘Viola Davis’ speaks loudly." - Erick Allen on Facebook “I was not planning to lose to a ghost candidate,” he said. Bullock captured 58 percent of the vote, according to the office of Georgia’s Secretary of State. “I find it very hard to believe [the votes were casted] off of an informed decision,” Allen said. In a Facebook post the day after the primary, Allen wrote: “We have to have a serious discussion about voter education and engagement. The fact that ‘Sandra Bullock’ won and a long-term incumbent lost to ‘Viola Davis’ speaks loudly.” Audrey Haynes, an associate professor of political science at the University of Georgia, told Fox News when voters can’t use partisanship to make a decision, and voters have less information on races as they move down the ballot, name recognition sways voters because “familiarity is linked with safety and security.” After much shock and time in what he called “The Twilight Zone,” Allen will be the one to move forward as the Democratic nominee in District 40’s House race after Bullock dropped out. Cobb County Democratic Party Chairman Michael Owens said Bullock is battling newly developed health issues, which would be hard to maintain while campaigning through November. Owens told Fox News Bullock’s run was never a joke – she was responding to her party’s call for more women to run and felt inspired to bring change to her community.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. The Golden Globes and the #MeToo movement, SAG Awards and more on this week's 'Take Two' podcast with FOX's Michelle Pollino and Michael Tammero. Plus, Michael shares his own story about sharing a shuttle flight with Jane Fonda. And what are Michelle and Michael watching these days? Listen to the 'Take Two' podcast here: Follow Michelle Pollino on Twitter: @Michellpollino
If you're more concerned about your child's homework than they are, or you want that big win or trophy more than they do, you might be projecting. Fox's Lisa Brady reports in this week's Fox on Family. As parents, we want what's best for our kids. But sometimes, we also want what we wanted as kids, or just to bask in their glory: (Martin) "We have to be careful not to project what we felt we never accomplished onto them and then push them so hard with it." Licensed professional counselor and mother-of-three Rhonda Martin says it's a common problem in sports and academics: (Martin) "Maybe they had a goal of, you know, I wish I had extra after school hours of studying or I had a harder school to go to, and then they project that onto their child and then they're child's just like exhausted and worn out." Martin says it's important to think about personality, not just talent, when choosing courses or activities: (Martin) "Don't just keep repeating what you've been doing, whether it's a sport or a foreign language, or whatever math curriculum you've selected. Make sure that you tweak it each year to that child's capacity." And she urges parents to make sure they don't want something more than the child does. With FOX on Family, I'm Lisa Brady.
If the Yankees and Astros meet again this season, it will come in October. Through the season’s first two months, the Yankees showed they are up to the task of competing with the defending World Series champs. They won again Wednesday, 5-3, again on the back of Luis Severino, who has mostly overmatched Houston in two starts this season. On Wednesday, the right-hander gave up just two runs in seven innings and matched his season-high with 11 strikeouts. That came after he tossed his first shutout in Houston earlier this month. Asked if he thought he would see them again in the playoffs, Severino said: “If we face any team, I’ll be ready.” The Yankees have won all but one of the right-hander’s dozen starts this year and Wednesday he outpitched Dallas Keuchel. Severino’s lone mistake came in the fifth, when he surrendered a two-run homer to Max Stassi that gave the Astros a 2-1 lead. The Yankees offense responded with a pair of runs in the bottom of the inning to retake the lead and then gave Severino and the bullpen some insurance with two more runs in the sixth. Gary Sanchez, in an 0-for-19 skid, came up with the critical hit, a two-run single through the right side of the infield in the fifth to give the Yankees the lead for good. It was another night in which Aaron Boone came away impressed by his team’s fortitude. “It’s what I love about our team,’’ the manager said. “We walk out those doors whenever we play thinking we’re gonna be a great team. It doesn’t mean you get the result you want every night.” Against the Astros, it did. Aaron Hicks, hitless in 15 at-bats before an RBI double in the sixth, agreed that it was a statement series and game. “Tonight was one of those games we’re here to play,’’ said Hicks, who was in the leadoff spot. “We know what we’re capable of.” David Robertson tossed a scoreless eighth before Aroldis Chapman provided a slight scare in the ninth. He allowed a two-out RBI double to Stassi to bring up George Springer as the tying run, but Chapman responded with a three-pitch strikeout. The Yankees’ next challenge will be the 11-game road trip that starts Thursday in Baltimore. They felt better about that after watching Severino, who retired the first 11 batters he faced before Jose Altuve’s grounder went through the right side of the infield vacated by the shift in the fourth. The offense got to Keuchel for four runs in five-plus innings. They took an early lead when Hicks worked a leadoff walk and moved to third on Aaron Judge’s single to left. Hicks scored on Giancarlo Stanton’s sacrifice fly to center. Mixing in an effective changeup to go with his elite fastball and a devastating slider that returned after a brief absence, Severino hardly broke a sweat before he walked Marwin Gonzalez with one out in the fifth and Stassi later crushed a 2-1 fastball into the visitors’ bullpen in left-center to give Houston a 2-1 lead. The Yankees rallied in the bottom of the inning with singles by Austin Romine and Judge putting runners on the corners with two outs for Stanton, who fought back from an 0-2 count to draw a walk. That brought up Sanchez with the bases loaded. The catcher punched a single through the right side of the infield, with Altuve shaded up the middle. It scored a pair of runs and put the Yankees back up, 3-2. The Yankees added to their lead in the sixth with Didi Gregorius’ run-scoring single through a drawn-in infield. Hicks followed with an opposite-field double that scored Romine to make it 5-2. They held on for the win, and though Boone cautioned it’s only May, he couldn’t deny his excitement about his ace. “He wants to be the guy that takes the ball when it’s difficult,’’ Boone said. “He’s at the point where he’s starting to relish these opportunities going up against other elite clubs.”
Tampa Bay Times: Hurricane Irma: Nearly 60 percent of Florida without power as storm moves north Hurricane Irma is weakening faster than expected this morning as it makes its way northwest through Central Florida after packing less of a punch than some forecasters had feared. But conditions were still stormy through much of the Orlando area Monday morning, and officials urged people to stay inside. In Orange County, a curfew remains in effect until 6 p.m. The National Weather Service still reported winds of up to 43 miles per hour and gusts of up to 69 miles per hour near downtown Orlando. At 5 a.m., Irma had 75 mph sustained winds — just 2 miles shy of becoming a tropical storm — and was moving north-northwest at 18 mph. The once mighty Category 5 storm was about 35 miles east of Cedar Key, the National Hurricane Center in Miami reported. Miami Herald: Hurricane Irma live updates: Curfew in the Keys, fallen trees blocking streets 7:20 a.m.: Inescapable Irma, the hurricane that for a week tormented the entirety of the Florida peninsula unlike any storm that came before it, will finally find its way out of the state Monday. She will leave behind destruction from Key West to probably Tallahassee. And yet the storm will also be remembered for what it wasn’t: In the end, Irma was not the feared Category 5 catastrophe she could have been, though the extent of her damage is still unknown. The dual-coast storm has already been blamed for five deaths. Overnight, the Category 2 storm pushed into western Florida further south than expected, sparing vulnerable Tampa Bay from the worst of the surging Gulf of Mexico waters. By 2 a.m., it was a Category 1 inland storm moving northeast toward Orlando from Tampa. By 5 a.m., it was about to be downgraded to a tropical storm. Tallahassee Democrat: President Trump approves major disaster declaration President Donald Trump approved a major disaster declaration on Sunday. This declaration authorizes federal funding to flow directly to Floridians impacted by Hurricane Irma and reimburses local communities and the state government to aid in response and recovery from Hurricane Irma. The Major Disaster Declaration approved by President Trump authorizes: – 100 percent federal reimbursement for 30 days in all counties for emergency protective measures, such as emergency operation center costs, evacuation costs, sheltering costs, and other costs associated with emergency response. After the 30 days, the federal government will reimburse 75 percent of these costs. This includes both local and state expenses;
When Tom Rossley was a teenager deciding which university to attend, he looked for a school that would take him away from home without being more expensive than the in-state tuition he would pay in Connecticut. Rossley, who grew up with three siblings in an 1,100-square-foot house with one bathroom outside of Hartford, Conn., settled on Drake University in Iowa, because it allowed him to do just that. “I was the guy who went there and for two years I cleaned toilets in the student union. But Drake University at the time opened my world, and the fraternity opened my world and I’m forever —” he told Watchdog, choking up before finishing, “I’m forever grateful, and that’s why I’ve always given back.” After graduating, Rossley would eventually return to Drake as a member of the Drake Board of Trustees, where he served 23 years until he defended his disabled son from an accusation of sexual assault. Rossley is now suing Drake after his fellow trustees voted to remove him because of his defense of his son. Rossley’s son, who is identified only as John Doe in court documents, and who appears to be a victim of sexual assault, is also suing Drake for gender discrimination in a separate lawsuit filed late last year. What follows is a campus sexual assault investigation unlike any other, which has so many elements from other outrageous campus kangaroo-court fiascos it could have been written for an episode of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit. Sadly, for Rossley and his son, this nightmare was not written by Hollywood; it is their current reality. John has multiple disabilities, including language-based learning difficulties, ADHD, anxiety and trouble with word retrieval (he takes longer to process questions and respond with articulate answers). He attended the Gow School for Dyslexia and Learning Disabilities in New York for half of eighth grade and all of ninth. He then transferred to a public high school in Chicago, where his disabilities and ADHD were accommodated. While taking the ACT in high school, John was provided extra time to complete the exam, due to his disabilities. John is not visibly disabled, however, and was able to join a fraternity and make friends. John noted his disabilities on his application to Drake. During his first two years at Drake, he attempted to get through his studies without accommodations, but needed them for the final two years. But when he was accused of sexually assaulting a female student, he was given no accommodations to help him process the investigation and effectively defend himself, John and his father allege. In fact, Rossley says his son’s inability to articulately and quickly answer questions, and his lack of memory from the night of the alleged incident, were used by campus administrators to suggest he was guilty. In their lawsuits, both Rossley and his son allege that John told investigators about his disabilities but no accommodations were provided, even though the school was aware of the disabilities provided classroom accommodations. The lawsuits allege this was a violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act. The troubles began the evening of Oct. 8, 2015. John, who takes multiple medications for his disabilities and also had been drinking at a house party, doesn’t remember much of the evening. Rossley says the medications alone have a “zombie” affect on his son. John went to a bar off campus and saw his eventual accuser, referred to as Jane Doe in court documents. The two knew each other from the spring semester and would text or talk on the phone. They also shared some friends. John was a member of a fraternity and Jane would often visit the house. On Oct. 8, the two had been drinking separately, but Jane texted John to see if he was at the bar just before she entered and the two saw each other. John says Jane flirted with him in the bar. He said he needed to leave since he had to work in the morning and offered to request Jane a “sober cab” — an option for drunk students to get a sober driver to take them home. When John stood up from his stool at the bar, he says he felt the effects of his prescription medicines and alcohol. The rest of the night is spotty, as John says he “blacked out” at various times through the remainder of the night. The two students got into the sober car, which drove them back to John’s fraternity, at Jane’s request. The driver would later say the two were “making out” in the back seat. The two arrived at the fraternity and went inside, but since there was nowhere to be alone, Jane suggested they go to John’s car for privacy. John vaguely remembers going to his car with Jane and getting into the back seat, where she initiated oral sex on him. John says in his lawsuit that he does not remember giving consent for oral sex, and was too incapacitated to have given consent. Later, during the hearing, Jane would admit on the witness stand that she initiated oral sex on John without his consent, but said she did so because she thought she was “just giving him what he wanted.” Jane stopped performing oral sex because John could not maintain an erection due to his incapacitation. Jane said during the hearing that she then went into the fraternity house to vomit in a bathroom. She claimed during the hearing that she went inside to get away from John, though John says this would be impossible since she needed a security code to get inside, and that code was entered by John as the two entered together. Rossley said he learned from investigation notes that some girls walking by the fraternity house that evening said they saw Jane stumble and John pull her into the fraternity house, which they claimed didn’t look right. One described John as “ethnic looking.” John is Hispanic, and was adopted by Rossley. Everyone involved in the investigation — the accuser, the investigator, the hearing board and the appeals board — is white, Rossley believes. The next thing John says he remembers was lying on his loft bed as Jane stood on a chair next to him, saying she was leaving. John says he doesn’t remember if he had sexual relations with Jane other than the oral sex in the car, during which Jane did not ask for his consent. Jane would claim that she had been in John’s room lying on a bean bag chair, and that they had sexual intercourse. Jane says she told John to stop, to which he replied, “Fine, I’ve got whiskey dick anyway.” Jane said she knew it was John by his short, stalky stature and said he was wearing a yellow condom. During the investigation, John was asked what kind of condoms he owned. He mentioned two traditional brands. The investigator asked if he owned any novelty condoms and he said he didn’t. Rossley told Watchdog that Jane’s mention of the yellow condom was brought up during the hearing, but John’s claim that he didn’t own any was not. Jane said she left the room to vomit again and texted a friend. She then went across the street by herself to the fraternity’s annex and got into bed with her male friend, who told her to leave (Drake University did not interview this friend). She then went to a different fraternity member’s room, whom she had a crush on, and got into his bed, where she remained until the next morning. John learned of this from his fraternity brothers. At 3 a.m., John texted Jane to ask if she had gotten home safely. She texted him back, “All good, babe.” She appears to have texted this from the bed of another fraternity member. After leaving the fraternity annex in the morning, Jane met with her friend who was not interviewed by Drake. She then contacted three more friends to discuss the night before. Only one of these friends was interviewed by Drake during the investigation, but all were referred to in the report. One of these friends went with Jane to the hospital for a sexual assault exam. Jane said that during the exam she began to question whether she was right to assume she had been sexually assaulted. After an initial exam, she denied a rape kit. She provided no documentation from her hospital visit during the investigation or hearing. The school never asked for the results of the initial exam to even prove she went to the hospital. Drake hired outside investigator Mary Howell Sirna, a former sex crimes prosecutor, because John was the son of a trustee. Sirna had just been hired by Iowa State University as their Title IX coordinator and Interim Director of the Office of Equal Opportunity. John alleges she lacked impartiality from the start. Drake also had Tricia McKinney, assistant director of campus public safety, help with the investigation. Evidence of bias was apparent throughout the investigation. When John told investigators that he didn’t remember much of anything from the night in question, Sirna wrote across her notes (which were obtained by Rossley) the word “lie.” When Rossley was first informed his son had been accused of sexual assault by his son’s fraternity president, he said he told the young man, “Send him to the wolves,” a statement that he says ended up in the investigator’s report. This was because, Rossley said, if his son had committed sexual assault against a woman, he should be punished. He says it was “hell” in the first few months after the accusation, “until we started reading things, processing information and questioning, and it became clear to us that this kid was being railroaded.” Throughout the process, John and his father allege, Sirna and McKinney decided who to interview and who not to interview. The investigators failed to interview critical witnesses who were present on the night of the alleged assault. John’s roommate, for example, was in the room when the assault was alleged to have occurred, and said he did not hear or see any sexual activity. His testimony was not included in the report because the investigators claimed it was unreliable. The investigators also failed to interview at least nine witnesses that could have provided crucial information about the night in question and the level of John and Jane’s intoxication and their interactions. The investigators didn’t interview Jane’s friend, whom she was with earlier in the evening, and the first person she spoke to after the incident. At the hearing, no testimony was allowed from the men Jane went to see directly after the alleged incident, even though they could have provided valuable insight into her level of intoxication and state of mind. None of the interviews were recorded or transcribed verbatim. Sirna only included her summaries of what was said, and key information was omitted. John said during his interview that he woke up the next morning fully clothed, with his shoes on, but this information wasn’t in the investigative report. Sirna said during the hearing that she didn’t remember John telling her that. Sirna wrote in the investigative report, obtained by Rossley: “Therefore, given that there are no eyewitnesses to the event, and respondent claims not to recall the event, we then must turn to the evidence provided by Complainant.” But there were eyewitnesses to the event, they just weren’t interviewed. Further, Jane’s claims were given credibility because John couldn’t remember, which should have clued in investigators that he was the more incapacitated individual. When John was first told of the allegations against him, he said it sounded like what Jane had done to him in the car. He said Jane had actually sexually assaulted him in the car, because he did not consent to oral sex (Jane would admit to this during the hearing). The investigation noted a discussion with John about his intoxication on the night of the alleged incident. “When discussing his own intoxication level on October 9, 2015 the Respondent indicated, ‘I was not in a state to be with her.”’ John then alleges Sirna asked him if Jane had taken advantage of him that night, to which he responded: “Yes, but no. I was not able to give consent that night.” John was then asked if Jane was able to give consent, and he responded: “She’s not as bad as I was.” Despite John clearly indicating he had been the victim of sexual assault under Drake policy, no investigation was ever opened against Jane, even after she admitted in the hearing that she had committed sexual assault. After Jane said this during the hearing, and John told his parents, Rossley said the family gave each other high fives, thinking “he can’t get convicted when she just admitted to doing it to him.” Rossley was wrong. John even attempted to initiate a sexual assault report against Jane for the sexual activity in the car, but the school deemed his report to be retaliatory and didn’t investigate despite clear evidence of a sexual assault. Nowhere in Drake’s policies does it state a sexual assault accusation can be ignored, even if administrators deem it to be retaliatory before they investigate. John and Jane were allowed an adviser at the hearing, who could be an attorney. When the acting dean of students, Jerry Parker, learned that John had hired an attorney, he personally arranged for Jane’s own attorney and provided that attorney with all relevant documents from the investigation. He also allowed Jane to bring a second advocate to the hearing and reserved a private room for Jane’s mother and friends in the building where the hearing took place. John was not allowed to have a second advocate in the room, and his parents were not allowed in the building, they had to wait in a separate building. Early in the process, Rossley realized his son was being mistreated by investigators, and began advocating for a fair process, such as disability accommodations. Rossley also contacted Parker to request an investigation into the sexual assault of his son by Jane. Parker responded by telling Rossley to “wait for the report; it’s very damning.” Parker then made the surprising move to essentially become a co-complainant against John, with his own attorney and ability to call witnesses. Rossley told Watchdog that the hearing officer arbitrarily ruled that each party would have 10 minutes for opening arguments, 10 minutes for closing arguments, and five minutes for rebuttal. Because Parker became a third-party complainant, he was allowed these same provisions, meaning that in reality, the accusing side had 20 minutes for opening arguments, 20 minutes for closing arguments, and 10 minutes for rebuttal. When John asked for double time to even the playing field, he was denied. During the hearing, Jane claimed to have a medical condition that prevented her from having vaginal sex easily. She claimed she was hurting after she left John, but the two men whose beds she entered after leaving John were barred from testifying. The first man told Jane to leave after she got on top of him in his bed. The second man would have said Jane showed no signs of incapacitation or pain, as she claimed during the hearing. Jane provided no medical evidence of her condition, and wasn’t asked to by the hearing board. She also claimed to have kept the underwear she was wearing that night and could have had it tested, but again she was not asked to. Rossley told Watchdog that during the hearing Jane presented a series of messages from John that were sent a week before the alleged sexual assault. He believes she did this to make it appear as though John had been stalking her. She conveniently left out her side of the conversation. Even though John presented the full conversation, without her responses deleted, she was not punished for lying during the hearing (or for admitting to sexually assaulting John). Also during the hearing, Parker asked John, in reference to his own report that he did not consent to sexual activity with Jane in the car: “And you didn’t say no?” Such a question is usually considered victim blaming and would not be allowed to be asked of a female accuser. When appealing the hearing’s decision to expel, John was informed that it was fine for Parker to have his own opening and closing arguments because the “University is an independent actor and dos not represent or take the side of either party.” This made no sense, since Parker represented Drake at the hearing and had stated in his notice of the hearing that he was “seeking the expulsion of [John]” and would “present the evidence against [John] to the hearing officer,” which is what he did. John’s appeal failed, and he was expelled. John and Rossley tried to appeal to Drake President Earl Martin, but learned that he had been discussing the matter with Board of Trustee Chair Larry Zimpleman. Martin did nothing to restore John’s reputation. Rossley on multiple occasions attempted to reach out to his fellow trustees to ensure his son was treated fairly and to make sure the school was in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities act, but was ignored. On April 7, 2016, Rossley emailed Parker and Zimpleman to once again raise concerns over the way his son had been treated. Rossley stated in the email that he found it “very interesting” that Parker and Zimpleman were not offended that investigators violated the ADA while investigating his son, excluded key elements of his son’s testimony from the investigative report and refused to investigate the sexual assault against his son. No one responded to that email, so on April 26 Rossley emailed a letter to the trustees and select members of the faculty and administration, which again raised his concerns over his son’s investigation. Rossley stated in this letter concern for the school’s violation of the ADA. “Do we want to be known as a university that ignores [a] student’s disabilities when it comes to enforcing our policies and procedures?” he asked in the letter. After again describing how the sexual assault on his son was ignored, Rossley asked, “Is this the kind of selective prosecution we as a Board are willing to own in the public domain? What effect will this have on our admission numbers from male students?” Further, he said: “If Drake is selectively prosecuting only men for sexual assault, the University could have some substantial liability.” Rossley had learned after his son’s expulsion that Jane was bragging about John being the first student expelled for sexual assault. Rossley says he received private emails and phone calls from several trustees after the April 26 letter expressing support. High-ranking members and Drake’s president, however, were not supportive. About eight hours after Rossley sent the letter, Board Chair Zimpleman sent an email to everyone on the email list, saying that no trustee should engage in “discussions of the issues” raised in Rossley’s letter. Two days later, Rossley was approached by Zimpleman at Drake’s Annual Alumni Awards program. The two went to a private room where Zimpleman and David Miles, who chaired the trustees’ Board Affairs committee confronted Rossley. Rossley says the two told him to “stop this immediately.” Rossley told Watchdog he told the two that Drake has messed up his son’s investigation, and left the event in anger. Rossley says that five days after this confrontation, he sent an email to Miles and Zimpleman saying he was “disassociating” himself from the case and would provide no further incident for the trustees. Despite this agreement, Zimpleman and Miles asked Rossley to step down as a trustee. Rossley was the longest-serving trustee, having sat on the board for 23 years. He says the second longest-serving member had been on the board for 15 years. He was offered the option of taking a “leave of absence” until the situation with his son was resolved, but there was no option under the board’s bylaws to permit such an absence. Rossley says Zimpleman and Miles said they would “get it approved.” But Rossley was skeptical, so he declined to resign. On May 20, 2016, Zimpleman, Miles and Board Chair-elect David Golder sent Rossley a letter asking him to resign as an active member of the board, and suggested Rossley had a conflict of interest stemming from his son’s issues with Drake. Board bylaws permit trustees to disclose conflicts of interest and abstain from votes that may have related to the conflict, which Rossley had agreed to do, so there shouldn’t have been further issue. But in June 2016, members of the Board of Trustees began attempting to remove Rossley. Two-thirds of trustees needed to be present in order to vote to remove Rossley, but not enough showed up. Members of the Board then scheduled another vote on July 19. Rossley alleges in his lawsuit that Iowa State regulations were broken in order for the vote to be held, including being provided too few days notice of the vote, which was done over the phone, and not being informed in advance of the alleged cause required for his removal. It was during this call that members voted to remove Rossley from the board. Rossley is suing for discrimination, breach of contract and retaliation, since the board’s stated reasons for removing him were due to his advocacy for his son. Rossley also wondered to Watchdog if there was an employment claim, as even though he received no compensation as a trustee, he was given benefits such as liability insurance. Watchdog attempted to contact every member of the Board of Trustees (where contact information was publicly available) for comment. Not one responded. A spokesman for Drake would not comment on the specifics of the lawsuit, but said the school “disagrees” with Rossley’s depictions. “Drake University takes seriously its commitment to provide a safe and productive educational environment for all of its students. This case is no exception,” the spokesman said. “After an initial review of the complaint filed by former trustee Tom Rossley, Sr., the University disagrees with the plaintiff’s depictions of the alleged actions of the parties involved.” The Drake spokesman added: “There are clear differences of opinion about how this situation evolved, and we look forward to presenting a vigorous defense in court. In recognition of the University’s obligations under federal law and out of respect for the privacy of those individuals involved, no further comment will be offered.” Rossley told Watchdog that he didn’t just do this for his son, but to ensure all students at Drake were treated fairly and with respect. “I stood up, not only for my son, but all the other kids — what about the kids who have no money and can’t fight this? Or who don’t have a parent who’s got the fortitude to stand up?”
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. The Benson and Harf Show on FOX News Talk! Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Benson and Harf Show LIVE Monday through Friday 6-8 pm Eastern! Find out more at BensonAndHarf.com
Nevada native Hailey Dawson returned to a major league pitching mound for the ninth time Wednesday night to throw the ceremonial first pitch at Denver's Coors Field as the Colorado Rockies faced the San Francisco Giants. Dawson threw an underhand pitch to Rockies pitcher Chad Bettis, who later posed for a photo with the young girl. "Thank you @cbettis35 for catching Haile's pitch and for being part of her #journeyto30," Dawson's mom, Yong, posted on her daughter's official Instagram account haileys_hand. "You are an inspiration." The 8-year-old, who threw the first pitch during Game 4 of the 2017 World Series in Houston, isn't afraid to step into the limelight. So far, she's delivered pitches at Baltimore, Washington, San Diego, San Francisco, Chicago Cubs, Texas and Cleveland. “I’m throwing the first pitch out at every major league ball park,” Dawson told FOX31. Next up: Seattle. The young girl was born with Poland syndrome — a rare birth defect that causes an "underdeveloped or absent chest muscle on one side of the body, absence of the breastbone portion of the chest muscle and webbing of the fingers of the hand on the same side," the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services states on its website. “She was born with a little pinkie, a little thumb and no middle fingers,” Dawson's mom, Yong, explained to the news station. In 2014, Dawson was fitted for a robotic hand created by the University of Nevada Las Vegas. The 3-D printed prosthetic allows Dawson to use her hand freely as she moves her wrist. “It helps me grab stuff because I can’t grab anything with my hand,” Dawson said. Along her MLB journey, Dawson said she hopes to raise awareness for her rare condition — and inspire others to follow their dreams. “If I can do it, you can do it too,” Dawson said. Several Rockies players signed Dawson's baseball-themed prosthetic hand Wednesday, including Ian Desmond, Arenado and Gonzalez. The Giants beat the Rockies 7-4. She is scheduled to wrap up her MLB stadium tour across the U.S. in Los Angeles on September 16. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
From Tupac vs. the Notorious B.I.G. to Jay-Z vs. Nas to Lil’ Kim vs. Foxy Brown, the history of rap is full of juicy beefs. Now Drake and Pusha-T have been fueling the flames of this fiery hip-hop tradition with their back-and-forth battle. The feud has erupted like a volcano to a nasty new level with Push’s freshly fired diss track, “The Story of Adidon,” which was unleashed Tuesday on Hot 97. This spit in Drake’s face — set to the No I.D. beats of Jay-Z’s 2017 single “The Story of O.J.” — launches low blows about the Canadian rapper’s parents (“Your father walked away at 5/Hell of a dad thing”), his racial identity (“Confused, always felt you weren’t black enough/Afraid to grow it ’cause your ’fro wouldn’t nap enough”) and even the multiple sclerosis of his producer Noah “40” Shebib (“OVO 40, hunched over like he 80/Tick, tick, tick/How much time he got?/That man is sick, sick, sick”). Pusha’s track also accuses Drake of hiding a son that he supposedly has with a porn star. And the song’s cover features a photo of Drake in blackface makeup that Pusha claimed hasn’t been digitally altered in a tweet Tuesday. This long-running bad blood goes back to a conflict in 2006 between Drake mentor Lil Wayne and Pusha-T’s duo, Clipse, over Wayne wearing Clipse’s favored BAPE brand of gear on a cover of Vibe magazine. Then Pusha-T and Drake threw jabs in 2012’s “Exodus 23:1” and 2013’s “Tuscan Leather,” respectively. The battle later continued, with Pusha questioning Drake’s lyrical cred (“It’s too far gone when the realest ain’t real” on 2016’s “HGTV Freestyle”) before Drake retaliated by calling into doubt Push’s drug-dealer rep (“You made a couple chops and now you think you Chapo” on “Two Birds, One Stone”). But things have definitely escalated in this most recent renewal of their rivalry: First, Pusha asserted in his lyrics on “Infrared,” a cut from his Kanye West-produced “Daytona” album that was released this past Friday, that Drake uses a ghostwriter, Quentin Miller. Then on Saturday it was Drake’s turn, when he dropped “Duppy Freestyle,” professing, among other things, that Pusha was using this beef to pump up his sales: “Tell ’Ye we got a invoice comin’ to you/Considerin’ that we just sold another 20 for you.” For good measure, Drake even posted a bill on Instagram. But as Drake prepares to release his new album “Scorpion” in June on the heels of Push’s “Daytona,” both rappers stand to benefit from the exposure. This ongoing diss-fest has gotten social media buzzing all about them.
Shenzhen Atall Intelligent Robot Technology, one of China's leading robotics companies, is now selling Emma, a sex robot equipped with artifical intelligence. The machine is linked to the internet and features high-tech stimulation capabilities. Sex robots have soft and elastic skin with less oil content and no smell. Their temperatures are set to resemble a human's and even feature safety measures to prevent electric shock, fire and explosions. But the human resemblance doesn't come cheap; Emma costs about $3,136 online with most customers being men aged between 40 and 50 years old. EPA-EFE
The late David Bowie famously owned the penthouse at 285 Lafayette St. That’s where shattered fans mourned his loss by transforming the ground outside the Nolita building into an impromptu shrine following his 2016 death. Bowie bought the spread for $4 million in 1999, and his widow Iman still lives there. Now a three-bedroom apartment on the third floor of the building is on the market as a fully furnished rental for $28,000 a month. The 3,175-square-foot perch features a corner living room with eight windows “at treetop level” overlooking St. Michael’s Chapel on Mulberry Street. Details include floorboards, posts and beams made from reclaimed oak. Building amenities include a common landscaped roof garden with seating and an outdoor kitchen. Other building residents, over the years, have included Ian Schrager and Courtney Love. The listing broker is Corcoran’s Dorothy Zeidman.
Starbucks has some work to do if it wants to recapture the trust of customers. On Tuesday afternoon, it closed 8,000 stores for anti-bias training. The coffee giant dropped to its lowest reputation metric in 10 years, according to a YouGov BrandIndex score released Tuesday. “Starbucks’ workplace reputation score is at its lowest level in at least 10 years, a difficult blow for a company that has been well-known for its employee benefits and culture, including helping pay for college tuition,” YouGov BrandIndex said. Purchase consideration has not fared well either. This is YouGov’s metric of potential sales revenue. On April 20, 28 percent of consumers would consider purchasing from Starbucks the next time they were buying food or drink. For the past couple of weeks, that number has been hovering around 24 percent, its lowest mark since April 2017. (Starbucks did not immediately respond to a request for comment.) In April, a video of the two men being handcuffed and removed by at least six police officers from a Philadelphia Starbucks went viral. They were waiting for a business associate. It sparked outrage on social media, with many people pointing out that Starbucks outlets are often full of people tapping away on their MacBooks with and without a Starbucks coffee next to them. YouGov also examined the daily consumer perception “buzz score” before and after the incident. That score recently reached the lowest level since November 2015. The buzz score began to recover on May 3. However, it hit a ceiling below where it was before the crisis. “The recent guest policy changes and then tweaks don’t seem to have put it in a more positive direction yet,” YouGov said. In November 2015, Starbucks received backlash on Facebook and Twitter when it replaced its annual “symbols of the season” Christmas cup design with a simple two-tone red cup. (In May 2015, a diversity-awareness campaign in which baristas were encouraged to write “race together” on every single coffee cup also backfired.) “The recent guest policy changes and then tweaks don’t seem to have put it in a more positive direction yet,” YouGov added. “Over the next few weeks, we will be able to see if can do just that. Meanwhile, Starbucks is still slightly in negative perception territory.” Of the April incident, Starbucks Executive Chairman Howard Schultz told “CBS This Morning” Wednesday CBS: “I’m embarrassed, ashamed. I think what occurred was reprehensible at every single level. I think I take it very personally as everyone in our company does and we’re committed to making it right.” Starbucks also said it had reached an agreement with the men that will include a confidential financial settlement. Here’s how the “buzz score” works: YouGov BrandIndex asked, “If you’ve heard anything about the brand in the last two weeks, through advertising, news or word of mouth, was it positive or negative?” A score can range from -100 to 100 with a zero score equaling a neutral position. For example: A score of 35 means that 35 percent more people said they heard more positive than negative buzz about the brand. YouGov BrandIndex is a daily consumer perception research service of brands that interviews 4,800 people each weekday from a nationally representative sample. It conducts more than 1.5 million interviews per year.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. She looked me straight in the eye. Without even a moment’s hesitation she said it. “I don’t think,” she said shaking her head slowly, even contemplatively back and forth, side to side. “I don’t think he did this because he loves his country.” “Then why did he?” I asked. She had no answer. We were sitting in the green room for the Fox News Outnumbered Overtime show. She is a Democrat strategist and makes her living largely helping Democrats get elected. I’ve seen how hard the life of a political consultant can be, and I have no desire to ever leave talk radio to pursue it. We were about to go discuss our differing perspectives on North Korea. She sees the President as “acting erratic” and “being temperamental.” My argument is that the back and forth he’s dished out to North Korea’s leader is part of how he has redefined the rules of the Presidency. A man who drives a hard bargain, and one who is committed to causing America to win. By the end of our segment she admitted that she’s pulling for him to strike the grand deal that removes nuclear weapons from the Korean peninsula and makes the world safer. But her words in our pre-segment chat hung in the air and on the back of my mind for days. Is it possible that Democrats, Resisters & Never-Trumpers actually believe he doesn’t love his country? Given the idealogical differences Trump opposers have with Trump supporters it’s probably an idea that gets lost. Yet answer yourself a few questions. Why does he rail on government corruption? Why does he insist on an American first foreign policy? Why does he push the idea of punishing countries who have disrupted our ability to produce our goods? Why does he desire to see NFL players respect the anthem and flag? Why does he want Constitutional judges on our nation’s courts? Why does he want everyone in America to have a job, lower taxes, and more income? You can disagree with his strategies to arrive at any number of goals, but of the goals he’s stated, the intent he’s aiming at, how can any of it be defined as anything other than someone who’s attempting to help his country be it’s best? I told my Democrat sparring partner a simple idea that I was often struck by during the campaign, and reminded of repeatedly since his inauguration: "What did he have to gain?” Unlike the vast majority of past presidents—and possibly all of them—Trump is the guy who on day one as President began living a life below the norms of what he had already achieved. His bedroom is smaller. His plane is worse. His schedule is more demanding. His time now belongs to the people—instead of himself. As a titan of industry he never needed to worry his head about the things he now must focus on around the clock. He has lost over $800,000,000 in personal net worth in his first sixteen months. Nearly every President before him began to gain net worth, and nearly all of them left office far more wealthy than they entered it. This is especially true of Democrats Clinton and Obama. President Trump had no need to wake up every day and to contemplate religious liberty issues, or pollution regulation, or abortion, or any number of other domestic issues. He surely had nothing in his life screaming out for him to help solve NATO’s funding scandal, how to defeat ISIS, whether to tear up the Iran deal, and how to take down “rocket man.” So why take them on? His popularity as a TV boss that “fired” people for performing badly on individual episodes is but a distant memory now that he’s had to fire, demote, excoriate, and purge members of government who were and possibly are committing crimes against “we the people." And he’s had to do all of it against a backdrop of a steady, but evidence free meme of being accused of using foreign powers to help him win the election. An election—as a non-politician—he nearly didn’t even run in. What are his major themes? A safer America, a more prosperous America, a greater America. Again many, maybe even fifty percent of the country may disagree with his methods, but how does one not agree with his aims? A bit later the same day as my Fox hit a twitter thread of mostly Never-Trumpers revisited the reasons why they were. As is my impulse too many times I asked some questions. But I was still amazed at how much vitriol there remains amongst a group who may have sixteen months ago had significant reservations about the man with no political record, but who to this day to a person they would be hard pressed to see a major initiative that he had not (more often than not) successfully answered with traditional conservative ideas. (Even their two-second objection to his tariffs has melted away as the Chinese and others have come to the negotiation table to even out imbalanced trade policies with the U.S.) I myself had significant reservations about President Trump as a candidate. I disliked the level of street fight he would sink to—to win. I was then and am now offended at the revelations of the Access Hollywood bus. And I more or less believe that in his past life President Trump might not have been the moral example I want my sons to see. However history is replete with men who find dignity, even nobility, in serving at a time and place when they have no reason to. It shapes them. It changes them. To see a President who understood and could articulate the need for greater protections for people of faith, and to have faithfully moved the nation towards that goal, when he himself doesn’t appear to be a man of great outward displays or practice of faith is remarkable. To see him surround himself with patriotic, even Godly, influences in some of his closest and most important advisory roles is to admit that he is serious in his endeavors and earnest in his desired outcomes. I think Trump was no more and no less a sinner (when taking office) than any of our Presidents have ever been. But if he truly was the ego-driven, self-inflating, internally focused narcissist that others of our Presidents have been, the solution for him would’ve been to never run at all. He just had better things to do. Still the resistance persists. Still the Never-Trumpers dream of world where his taint would never touch their outlandish imaginations about previous purity in the political process. Still Democrats say in green rooms, “I don’t think he loves his country.” But alas none of them ever really have an answer to the bigger question… “If he doesn’t why does he serve her so earnestly?"
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. You know we are now living in a Bizarro World when Obama-era Secretary of Education Arne Duncan is championing parental activism on a mammoth scale. As head cheerleader for the nationalized Common Core standards during his seven years at the helm of the U.S. Education Department (USED), Duncan routinely aimed snarky, if not downright mean, put-downs at parents organizing to prevent the one-size-fits-all Common Core curricular guide from being forced on their kids’ schools. In one particularly nasty outburst, he slammed some opponents as “white suburban moms” fearful of their children getting bad marks on the federally subsidized assessments. Plainly, Duncan detested parent-activists who opposed the Obama agenda. Ah, but now Bizarro-Arne has gone all-in on a tweet from his former assistant education secretary, Peter Cunningham, who mused that “maybe it’s time for America’s 50-million school parents to simply pull their kids out of school until we have better gun laws.” Duncan tweeted in reply that his aide’s brainstorm was “brilliant and tragically necessary.” Smitten by the shared brilliance of it all, he added: “What if no children went to school until gun laws changed to keep them safe? My family is all in if we can do this at scale. Parents, will you please join us?” Whether Duncan and Cunningham plotted this exchange or it was Twitter spontaneity, only they can say. Either way, they evinced a strange appetite for large-scale disruption of governmental institutions they once tried to remake from Washington, D.C. Moreover, the naivete of their conviction that simply enacting more gun-control laws will actually keep schools universally safe is simply stunning. If their end game is creating turmoil to lay the groundwork for attempted governmental confiscation of some 270 million guns already in circulation, they are dabbling in extra-constitutional territory that could have tragic results. As an alternative, how about building on a steady but non-chaotic parent-and-child walkout from institutional schools that has accelerated over the past decade? The exodus has been most notable in the swelling enrollment of children in homeschooling, including homeschool co-ops. Some parents have said they departed to be free from centrally manipulated curricula like Common Core, while even greater numbers have cited fears for their children’s safety, particularly as a consequence of bullying. Though not heavily advertised, a provision clumsily called the Unsafe School Choice Option within the federal Every Student Succeeds Act allows students to transfer to a different public school when their current school meets their state’s definition of being “persistently dangerous.” The catch is that states don’t necessarily like to tell the whole truth about their public schools. As a result, fewer than 50 of 96,000 public schools nationally have received the dangerous designation making families school-transfer-eligible. My colleagues at The Heartland Institute have unveiled a proposal to give parents much faster and broader access to safer schools when they find their children endangered. Their idea is for states to create Child Safety Accounts (CSAs), a kind of education savings account, that parents could use expeditiously to switch their children to safe schools of their choice, be they regular public, charter, virtual, private, or parochial. CSA funds also could help pay homeschooling expenses. The problem goes far beyond this year’s Parkland and Santa Fe massacres, deeply tragic though they were. From studying a USED safety survey of every public school in the USA in 2015–16, Heartland Policy Analyst Tim Benson uncovered some staggering numbers: 1.1 million “serious offenses” (one for every 50 students); 789,000 attacks or fights without weapons; 11,900 attacks or fights with weapons; 24,000 robberies; 10,100 sexual assaults; 1,100 rapes or attempted rapes; 5,700 cases of possession of a firearm or explosive device; 240 schools reporting at least one school-related shooting. The bullying figures fairly scream epidemic: The year brought more than 135,000 “individual allegations of harassment or bullying on the basis of sex, race, sexual orientation, disability, or religion,” with some 114,000 students disciplined as a result. Public school students, Benson observed, “are made to feel unsafe in their school in a variety of ways and for multiple reasons, including physical and emotional bullying, random acts of violence, hazing, sexual harassment and abuse at the hands of peers and teachers, gang activity, harassment over food allergies or other special needs, and unsafe classroom conditions. And the advent of cyberbullying, which is likely to expand in the coming years, has added a new and pernicious twist to school safety.” It is not a pretty picture. And it is too huge a mess to be dispelled by passage of a few more gun-control laws. Parent power is the answer—but not the Twitter-activated robotic kind Arne Duncan favors.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Maybe you've seen the video of the hero the French have dubbed "Spider-Man." When he saw a toddler dangling off a fourth-story balcony, he scaled the exterior of the Paris building in about 30 seconds to save the child. Turns out Mamoudou Gassama was a newly arrived illegal immigrant from Mali. A grateful President Emmanuel Macron made him a French citizen a day later. Or consider the story of Jesus Manuel Cordova. He illegally crossed the border from Mexico into Arizona and came upon a damaged car. Inside was a dead mother and an injured 9-year-old boy. Cordova stayed with the child for hours until help arrived. So, does that mean all illegal immigrants are heroes? Obviously not, no more than the crimes of MS-13 or the murder of Kate Steinle prove that all illegal immigrants are criminals. Both parties are resorting to stereotypes and incitement. The Democrats, intent upon portraying the utter depravity of the Trump administration's approach to immigration, seized upon a story that the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency had "lost" 1,475 illegal immigrant minors who were separated from their parents. A widely cited story alleged that federal officials could not find these kids. Several pointed to a Frontline account alleging that at least some of the kids had been released to human traffickers. But within a couple of days, the corrections flowed in. It wasn't, The New York Times and others advised, that the kids were lost. Rather, these were among the "unaccompanied minors" who crossed the border in 2014. They were placed with adults. The Times quoted Ephrat Livni of Quartz, who explained: "It certainly sounds bad," but "many of those missing kids may well be with their parents or families, and they may have gone off the grid deliberately to avoid Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) authorities." As for the Frontline story, it referenced a government report from 2016, i.e., before the current administration could be held accountable. But here's the irony: The Trump administration's position amounts to saying, "We weren't responsible for separating children from their parents, but going forward, we will be." Attorney General Jeff Sessions has announced that separating even very young children from their parents will now be policy -- as deterrence. "If you are smuggling a child then we will prosecute you, and that child will be separated from you as required by law," he said. "If you don't like that, then don't smuggle children over our border." Well, if deterrence of illegal immigration justifies visiting the sins (if that's what they are) of the parents upon the children, why stop there? Why not confine the children in cages, feed them only bread and water and confiscate their teddy bears? After all, the current policy is indifferent to the suffering the children will experience in the name of punishing the parents, so why not ramp it up? Surely that would be an even better deterrent. The president and his advisers routinely recommend harsh immigration measures on the grounds of national security and crime, as if our borders are being overrun by terrorists and rapists. A Republican National Committee campaign spot shows Nancy Pelosi criticizing President Trump's use of the term "animals" regarding gang members. Her comments are juxtaposed against a gruesome story of a Satanic murder committed by a "Guatemalan native," and other stories of crimes committed by MS-13. The tagline: "Democrats' midterm message: MS-13 killers ... they aren't so bad." At his Tennessee rally, President Trump, with characteristic judiciousness, told the crowd that Pelosi "loves MS-13." But it's flatly false to say that immigrants are disproportionately represented among offenders. The Cato Institute has published several studies showing that immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than the native born, and illegal immigrants are the most law-abiding of all. Overall crime rates in the United States, despite an uptick in murders in certain cities since 2014, have declined by 64 percent since 1990, while immigration rates spiked (immigration rates have declined since 2005). A study by four universities found that the 10 regions that had the largest increases in immigrants all had lower levels of crime in 2016 than in 1980. Of course there are awful cases. But the plural of anecdote is not data, and the appeal to fear is contemptible. Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen expressed alarm that 300,000 would-be border crossers are apprehended yearly. But this is a stark drop from just 18 years ago, when more than 1.6 million were stopped. At the same time, more people are now leaving the U.S. to return to Mexico than arriving from Mexico. The dueling anecdote game can be played endlessly. ICE has arrested an illegal alien adult with Down syndrome, whose three siblings and father live in the U.S. An armed ICE agent was videotaped using a crowbar to enter a home. When the occupants demanded a warrant, he said, "You're watching too many movies." Most ICE agents doubtless follow the law and shouldn't be tarred by the bad acts of a few. The same can be said of immigrants.
An eight-year-old boy in Georgia halted traffic to ensure that an elderly woman struggling with a walker could make it up the stairs, according to a video of the encounter. The video shows the boy, Maurice Adams Jr., placing his arm around the woman and picking up her walker for each step until she made it to the top of the stairs. When they finished their uphill climb, the boy hugged the woman before running back to his mother’s car. The boy and his family did not realize it at the time, but a stranger had secretly filmed the boy’s good deed and posted it on social media. Riley Duncan, the person who filmed the video, shared it on a community Facebook page Tuesday and got an overwhelming response. As of Thursday afternoon, Duncan’s video has been shared more than 19,000 times on Facebook. “Thank you God for our youth,” the video’s caption reads. Once the video went viral, someone connected Duncan with the boy’s mother, Contrica Hill, CBS News reported. When Hill told Duncan about her son, Duncan said he wanted to meet Maurice and give him $100 for his selfless act.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The blame game is a specialty of the left. Democrats have convinced their constituents that any plight in life is not their fault. It is the fault of someone else. The mainstream media blame Republicans, and quite convincingly to those who refuse to read conservative news. President Trump has been attacked since Election Day. The most recent attacks have nothing to do with him. The media and Democrats lie and tell you he is the epicenter of many issues. Roseanne Barr made an offensive tweet the other day. There is no doubt about that. According to the left, the tweet was Trump’s fault. Specifically, Valerie Jarrett, a former chief advisor to Obama, said that Trump should bear some of the blame. She said that his tone gave way to Barr’s social media faux pas, but couldn’t give an example. That’s nonsense. Barr’s words have nothing to do with Trump. She is the one who took her phone, clicked on the app, typed her message, and pressed “post.” Barr's tweet is a case of personal action, and now she must take personal responsibility for it. But that is the problem. Leftists vehemently detest owning up to one’s actions. We can’t expect liberals to blame the correct person who sent the tweet. After all, they can’t blame the person who pulls the trigger in a shooting. Somehow, the NRA is always to blame. Liberal sports media blames Trump for the national anthem policy enacted by the NFL. The new rule says if a player is on the field during the song, they must stand. If they are against it, they can stay in the locker room. It's a fair balance. It doesn’t allow the political distraction that no one wants to see. Activist players are angry now. Again, somehow this is Trump’s fault. But it’s not. Leftists on ESPN and other liberal news stations are blaming Trump. They are wrong. Yes, the president has commented on the anthem issue, but it is no different than Obama using his platform to push the fake “hands up don’t shoot” story from Ferguson. Obama was a community organizer, so he reverted to what he knows. Trump is a businessman, and the NFL is a business. His acumen and experience drove his words in the same way Obama’s were. The NFL was losing substantial viewership, so advertisers left. It was a business decision, not a political one. The left has made the NFL’s choice about politics. They have created something out of nothing. There is no benefit for the president, only the league owners. Some liberals have blamed the fans for making the NFL “cave.” So what? Roger Goodell and the NFL did cave, but not the side left-wingers wanted, so it was the “wrong decision.” Leftist call for boycotts against businesses that donate to the NRA, or other conservative organizations. The spurning isn’t supposed to happen when it’s pushes back on a progressive political agenda. The fans are responsible for not going to games or watching on television to make the ratings drop. People watch football games on their own accord. Before Trump was president, fans choose to view the games or not. And the same thing will happen during and after his time in office. Just like Roseanne's tweet, it’s the fans choice. It’s the blind derangement game now, not the blame game.
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) — Taiwan plans to lend ally Haiti $150 million for infrastructure development in a bid to shore up relations amid a renewed diplomatic onslaught by rival China that has stripped it of two foreign allies in the past month. Foreign Ministry spokesman Andrew Lee said Thursday the aid was aimed at developing rural power grids in the impoverished Caribbean nation that is still recovering from a devastating 2010 earthquake. "This provides a win-win situation to help a diplomatic ally with a major infrastructure development project and also creates overseas business opportunities for Taiwanese companies," Lee was quoted as saying by the official Central News Agency. Haiti is one of just 18 countries that continue to recognize self-ruling democratic Taiwan after the Dominican Republic and Burkina Faso switched ties to Beijing last month. China claims Taiwan as its own territory and opposes any recognition of the island as an independent state. Beijing has been steadily increasing pressure on Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen over the past two years following her refusal to acknowledge the "one-China principle" under which China defines Taiwan as a Chinese province. The sides split amid civil war in 1949 and China threatens to use force to grain control over the island. Along with diplomatic pressure, Beijing has cut the numbers of Chinese tourists visiting Taiwan and increased naval and air force patrols around the island in recent months. Tsai's administration has remained defiant however, and has received support from Washington in the form of defense assistance and the planned opening this month of a new de-facto U.S. embassy in the capital Taipei.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Welcome to summer in the American ghetto. In large urban centers, Memorial Day weekend rang in the unofficial start of summer with a spate of killings in major cities. Eight dead with 30 wounded by gunfire in Chicago, four dead with nine wounded in D.C., and three dead with 12 wounded in Milwaukee. Unfortunately, city officials responded in a predictable fashion – commitment to more police patrols, public relations campaigns to end the violence, and candlelight vigils at the scene of the carnage. Despite all of this, the violence continues. Americans deserve pragmatic and successful policy solutions from their communities, not status quo talking points from the left. As President Trump recently tweeted, leftist policies aren’t working in Chicago and it’s time to let the police do their jobs. When you see this level of violence it is evidence that social order has collapsed in said areas. In other words, we must look at what prompted the shootings in the first place. In these cases, it was prompted by cultural rot in the form of dysfunctional behavior. Behavior like gang involvement, drug and alcohol abuse, ineffective parenting, lack of engaged fathers, and poor education are a handful of situations that breed dysfunctional behavior. Criminals take property by force, settle inane disputes with gunfire and intimidate their neighbors. It’s the law of the jungle where people foolishly react to circumstances instead of using rational thought to settle disputes. The worst part? America’s criminal justice system has become a revolving door for violent repeat offenders. Once released, these offenders commit crimes before the ink dries on their police reports. In observance of the flaws in our justice system, they reason that not much will happen to them and that city officials are powerless to stop them. In essence, their calculation is correct – city officials target the wrong things. After the violence in the nation's capital this past weekend, D.C. Metropolitan Police Chief Peter Newsham said he plans to reach out to federal partners to “re-strategize” about how to target illegal guns, which he believes is at the heart of the violence. He’s wrong. Police leaders seem perplexed about what to do. They increase police patrols in high crime areas, they set up gun buyback programs and establish hotlines for people to call about illegal guns. They have swallowed the hook, line and sinker of the anti-gun movement’s misguided belief that if you target guns, the violence will disappear. If the gun was the cause of violence then gun violence would be evenly distributed across demographics among the gun owning population. However, that isn’t the reality. Most of the crime is centered in the American ghetto. The average gun owner does not use a gun to take somebody’s property by force, settle a dispute or intimidate their neighbors. According to the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reporting, black suspects make up 52 percent of arrests in homicides, 50 percent of robbery arrests, 32 percent of arrests for aggravated assaults and 41 percent of arrests in weapon carrying/possession. To put it into perspective, blacks make up about 13 percent of the total U.S. population but are disproportionately the perpetrators in these criminal acts. It may be an ugly fact to some but it is the reality of violent crime. It’s a swing and a miss to target guns. Instead, we should target violent career criminals and their anti-social behavior. We shouldn’t take politically correct policy advice from the same leftists that have failed to deter crime. Rather, there are a handful of new approaches we should take to make America safe. We must identify repeat perpetrators by their long rap sheets. Send out teams of officers to arrest everyone out on outstanding felony warrants. Arrest probation and parole offenders for the slightest violation of their probation or parole. Follow-up with quality debriefings by investigators to determine the associates of perpetrators and the vehicles they own. Prosecute offenders and keep them locked up for the longest period allowed by law, keeping neighborhoods safe. Set high bail and stop liberal programs like community corrections and second chances for repeat offenders. Send felons who use a gun in commission of a crime to the Department of Justice for prosecution because federal guidelines for sentencing are longer and more certain. Stop accepting plea bargains in exchange for weak sentences. The reality is that these policy alternatives are effective crime control tools. How many Americans in Chicago, D.C., and Milwaukee will be killed by violent offenders until leftist politicians realize their criminal justice policies have failed us all? Unfortunately, it’s difficult to push back against the status quo. In order for my proposed strategy to work, police commanders must be able to empower and support front line officers. Law enforcement officers have been emasculated and defanged in the assault by the cop-hating crowd that has risen since the incident in Ferguson, Missouri. America needs officers to once again engage in assertive policing that keeps crime and violence in check. Policing tactics such as traffic stops and field interviews based on reasonable suspicion prevent crime before it happens. They help turn up illegal gun possession, dangerous drugs and people wanted on serious felony warrants. Unfortunately, cops have backed away from the risks associated with aggressive policing out of fear that they’ll be part of the next sensationalized national news story. They are reluctant to jeopardize their careers because of some snap-shot phone video of an incident taken out of context even when they are later exonerated. If mayors and police commanders are unwilling to come up with a strategy such as the one I propose – improving the quality of life in crime-ridden neighborhoods through proven tactics – then they should prepare for another violent summer. One in which blacks and Hispanics are disproportionately victimized by crime and violence. David A. Clarke Jr., former Sheriff of Milwaukee County, is now President of DAC Enterprises and Chair of American Law and Culture for the Capital Research Center.
The Left is winning the generation war. The millennial generation is one of the most liberal and Democratic-driven voter demographics ever. Nearly half view socialism in a favorable light. Demography is destiny, except that it’s not. The media today is inundated with this narrative, surmising that a "blue wave" is inevitable for the 2018 midterms and beyond. But is Republicans' future really as dim as many in the media would have you think? No. It’s not. It’s never over, something Democrats and Republicans should keep in kind concerning elections. Everything is based on public opinion and in the words of columnist George Will—it’s all shiftable sand. While Democrats seem to focus their energy and resources at the top, mainly attacking our current president, Republican groups are mobilizing and preparing the next generation of leaders. The Maverick PAC is one such group. Maverick PAC, or "MavPAC" as the group has been coined, brings together young professionals from the private, public and political sectors. In its 15 years of existence, MavPAC has developed over 20 chapters across the country. These chapters are charged with developing local business and political leaders who want to begin getting engaged in the political process by raising and bundling funds for up-and-coming, business-friendly candidates. It's clear MavPAC is developing a serious infrastructure, provided they contributed $140,000 in the 2016 election and are projected to give around $200,000 to candidates in this cycle. In addition to the infrastructure-building, MavPAC also facilitates opportunities for these future leaders to meet with current leaders of today. Vice President Mike Pence, former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, former Governor Jeb Bush, and Karl Rove are just a few of the names MavPAC has hosted at their events. Their premier, annual event, The Mavericks Conference, takes place this weekend in Austin, Texas. Senator Ted Cruz and Governor Greg Abbott are set to address the attendees, along with Representatives Michael McCaul (R-TX), Will Hurd (R-TX), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson, and Texas Land Commissioner George P. Bush. It’ll also be a time to honor and recognize MavPAC's 2018 "Future 40" honorees, a group of individuals under the age of 40 who have impacted and made significant achievements in their respective sectors and communities: Allie Brandenburger, Washington, DC De'On Collins, Texas Roy Milan Schultheis, Florida Audrey Henson, Florida Elijah Haahr, Missouri Kevin Levelle, Texas Bettina Inclan, Florida John Callahan, Texas Katie Behnke, Colorado Coco Pannell, Tennessee Jon Adams, Washington, DC Jessica Renier, California Deanna Ballard, North Carolina Jose Gonzales, Florida Gail Wilson, Washington, DC Emily Brewer, Virginia Juan Carlos Flores, Florida Ryan Williams, Washington, DC Kasdin Mitchell, Alabama Omar Qudrat, California Shannon Kendrick, Virginia Adam Jones, New York Shoshana Weissmann, New York Steven Llanes, New Jersey Chester Spellman, Florida Maralyn Beck, New Mexico Will Ritter, Virginia Dan Crenshaw, Texas Omari Faulkner, Virginia Nicole Gomez, Florida James Lloyd, Texas Ellen Troxclair, Texas Anand Shah, Washington, DC Alexander Gray, Florida Annie Lewis, Massachusetts MacKay Jimeson, Connecticut Gina Barr, Michigan Mike Huffstetler, New York Emma Nelson, Missouri Kathryn Ciano, Virginia “Since its inception 15 years ago, Maverick PAC has built a network of successful young professionals who are focused on making a difference in business and politics. Our network has grown to more than 20 chapters and hundreds of members nationwide,” said Maverick PAC National Co-Chair Morgan Ortagus in a press release. “As Maverick PAC continues to grow and become more influential, so too does our responsibility to provide a platform for the young professionals who are making a huge impact on business, government (local and federal), and their local community,” added Maverick PAC National Co-Chair Fritz Brogan. Past class members include Turning Point USA's Charlie Kirk, Department of Justice Spokesperson Sarah Isgur Flores, The Washington Free Beacon’s Sonny Bunch, Rep. Jamie Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Rachel Hoff, who was the GOP’s first openly gay delegate on the platform committee, Ohio Treasurer and 2012 Senate candidate Josh Mandel, Cato Fellow Ilya Shapiro, and Fox News Contributor and U.S. News and World Report columnist Ashley Pratte. Maverick PAC’s conference begins on June 1.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Michael Tammaro and Michelle Pollino, discuss the Kanye West fallout. Michael talks about what it was like at the White House Correspondents Dinner; A summer movie preview, the best shows to stream RIGHT NOW and Country music's surprising new performers.
The Cleveland Cavaliers have almost no chance of defeating the Golden State Warriors in their fourth-straight NBA Finals matchup, according to Vegas oddsmakers. After the Warriors defeated the Houston Rockets in the Western Conference Finals on Monday, the team opened as -1,000 favorites at the Westgate SuperBook in Las Vegas to repeat as champions this year – meaning you would have to bet $1,000 to win $100 on a Warriors championship. The Warriors’ odds make them the biggest finals favorites over the last 16 seasons, according to sportsoddshistory.com. The Cleveland Cavaliers opened as a +650 underdog in the finals. The team was +360 when they played the San Antonio Spurs in the 2007 NBA Finals, sportsoddhistory.com noted. The Cavaliers were also underdogs when they defeated the Warriors in 2016. Golden State also opened as 12-point favorites over Cleveland for Thursday night’s Game 1. No one else has been a bigger favorite in the first game of the Finals since 1991, according to CBS Sports. The Los Angeles Lakers were 12-point favorites over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of the 2001 NBA Finals, which the 76ers won. The Warriors, should they defeat the Cavaliers in the series, will have won their third NBA title in four years. The Cavaliers are looking for their second-ever championship and LeBron James’ fourth.
OAKLAND, Calif. — Well, there’s always Game 2 for the Warriors’ Andre Iguodala. And still maybe Game 1 for the Cavaliers Kevin Love. On the eve of the start of their attempt to win a repeat championship and a third in four years — all against the Cavaliers — the Warriors announced Wednesday that Iguodala, the 2015 Finals MVP, will miss Game 1 then be re-evaluated before Game 2 because of a bruised left leg. Iguodala is making progress but is still plagued by pain from the bone bruise and nerve inflammation around his knee. “Just trying to get back as soon as possible so just keep grinding away at the process,” said Iguodala, who claimed he expects to return — “not that far away” — during the series. “Just trying to figure out how to move in general. Making some progress. It’s slower than we expected.” Iguodala, one of Golden State’s best defenders who would figure to get a lot of LeBron James on his plate, missed the last four games of the Western Conference finals victory over Houston. And the other key injured player in the series, Love, was excused from Wednesday’s media availability session as he remains in the NBA’s concussion protocol. Love missed Game 7 of the Eastern Conference finals win over Boston after he collided in Game 6 with the Celtics’ Jayson Tatum. His status remains undecided for the Finals start, but coach Tyronn Lue was hopeful the forward would be ready. “I hope so. I’m still not sure,” Lue said Wednesday at Oracle Arena. “He’s going to go do some things today and see how he feels. But he is in the protocol still, so we’ll see how he feels.” Cavaliers guard J.R. Smith repeatedly stressed his respect for the Warriors. He was asked if he were surprised the champs rallied from 3-2 down and beat the Rockets on the road in Game 7. “Anybody tells you they were surprised by that, they’re lying. Ain’t no way,” Smith said. “If anything, I was surprised it got to that point with them.” The Cavs’ Jeff Green had gratitude as his prime theme Wednesday. Sure, he’s grateful to be in the Finals. He’s also grateful to be alive. Six years ago, he underwent heart surgery. “When I had to go through the surgery, I always sat around and tried to figure out why, what was the reason,” Green said. “So I had to figure out the ‘why? What was God’s plan?’ This is it, to spread my story.” The Warriors’ Nick Young begged off the Twitter controversy surrounding 76ers GM Bryan Colangelo. The exec was accused of using “burner” accounts to criticize his players, among others. “No comment,” Young said laughing. “No burner account. I just get hacked a lot.” There was a lot of talk about LeBron James’ basketball IQ. Someone said he was the “Mount Everest” of NBA players for IQ. But Draymond Green also is considered a cerebral player, so Warriors coach Steve Kerr had a little fun with that notion. “Draymond’s is more like Mt. Fuji, I would say,” Kerr said laughing. “Just trying to give you something to work with. Draymond is an incredibly sharp basketball mind. He sees the game as it happens, before it happens, even. He’s kind of a move or two ahead of everybody on the defensive end. It’s amazing to have him out there.” Said Green, “I’ve just been blessed to have great coaches in my life and be blessed with a gift from God.”
Editor's note: Taya Kyle is the widow of former U.S. Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, who served four tours in the Iraq War and was awarded the Silver Star and four Bronze Star medals for heroism in combat. He became well-known after the publication of his best-selling book “American Sniper: The Autobiography of the Most Lethal Sniper in U.S. Military History” in 2012, which was the basis for a 2014 movie. He and a friend were shot and killed at a gun range in Texas in 2013 by a military veteran who they were trying to help. The Chris Kyle Frog Foundation (CKFF) was created after Chris was killed based on the mission he and Taya talked about together to give back to military and first responders. Taya continued the work that the two were just getting started on when Chris was killed. Find out more about CKFF here. May 8th was such an emotional day in Odessa. The dedication of the second Chris Kyle Memorial Highway was a lovely tribute to Chris. I felt blessed to be invited. So many good people have worked so hard and donated so much of their time and money to honor Chris and all who serve. Senator Kel Seliger imagined years from now, after we are all long gone, there will be a child who sees the memorial and asks his or her parents “Who was Chris Kyle?” That’s when my heart clutched and the tears sprang up. I hope they will see the handwritten notes from family carved into the stone at the base of the breathtaking sculpture and see he was man loved by his family. I hope they will see the flag and know he was a man who offered his life to defend his country. I hope they will see all branches of service represented, the wellness center next door -- a testament to the price of service. I hope they will see the visitors and memorabilia left behind and know Chris Kyle was a humble man and he inspired others. I hope they have a moment to meet one of the many veterans who visit the plaza and I hope they take a minute to talk with them. I did. The man pictured on my Facebook page with served in Vietnam. He shared with me a time when he went into a VFW location and had WWII veterans tell him Vietnam wasn’t a real war and he wasn’t welcome there. He told me about relatives who believed he should have gone to Canada rather than fight in a war they didn’t believe in. His marriage ended. He sacrificed much. He wasn’t complaining. He was sharing the truth of his life with no grudges. He’s made peace with people who don’t agree or understand his beliefs and life of service. He’s fought his way through pain to find happiness. He is a warrior in life. He also shared with me his happiness today with a wife he has loved for many years; his bright blue eyes twinkled as he talked about her. He shared his desire to continue serving today in ways he could do from a wheelchair and the sting of the young people who dismiss his desires because they have other people who can do the work. Then, he pulled out his wings and told me that although he had many, these were the actual wings he was given in Vietnam. He has carried them with him for a long time. He placed them in my hands and told me he wanted me to have them. That’s when the ugly cry started. I was overwhelmed with the magnitude of service, sacrifice and a warrior’s deep desire to understand and be understood. This warrior has a happy life. That in itself is a battle, a valiant fight for one who has endured much. The overwhelming spirit of Chris, healing and service is palpable in the hot dry winds of Odessa blowing across the memorial plaza. Odessans have outdone themselves. This memorial says much about Chris and it says so much about the people in Odessa and what Odessa stands for. To KDC Associates who donated their service to design the plaza, Vic Payne who sculpted the masterpiece of Chris so thoughtfully and lovingly, State Representative Brooks Landgraf who thought of and championed the Highway naming, State Senator Kel Seliger who pushed it through the Senate, the Odessa Chamber of Commerce who has tirelessly worked to represent their community with this effort and to the generous donors who made it all possible.... Well done. My heart is full for all the lives you will continue to touch. To Kirk Edwards, thank you for bringing me out to Odessa for the afternoon. To the Steens, thank you for the much needed laughter afterward and to Chris...I felt you there. I can only imagine what it must feel like for you in heaven seeing the mark your earthly life has made on so many. I am happy for you. I ache with missing you. I love you. I always will. Adapted from a Facebook post published on May 9, 2018.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. A federal district court judge ruled last week that President Trump cannot block people on Twitter, citing the First Amendment. This decision will be reversed because Twitter is a private company (merely publicly traded), not a public forum. Trump hasn’t bothered obeying the order and unblocking the people, no doubt because he knows it’s bad law. The decision wasn’t even necessary, since anyone, including the blocked individuals, can see Trump’s tweets as long as they are not logged into Twitter. They merely can’t interact with him — he won’t see their tweets and he cannot tweet at them. But others can see their tweets at him. The six individuals who sued over being blocked claim this is “burdensome.” Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald agreed, calling it a “cognizable injury-in-fact.” However, if you’ve used Twitter, you know it’s a minor inconvenience at most. Being prohibited from interacting with Trump is almost meaningless, considering he receives thousands of tweets a day and cannot possibly interact back with all of them. He rarely responds to tweets directed at him. He was never going to respond to these critics anyway. Trump blocks people who disagree with him politically, mainly when they tweet rudely at him. He’s blocking bullies and trolls. The plaintiffs merely want to annoy him with their tweets. The account in question is @realDonaldTrump, which is not his official presidential Twitter account. However, he tweets about official issues related to the presidency. Judge Buchwald stated in her opinion that the “interactive space” where Twitter users interact with Trump constitutes a public forum protected by the First Amendment. She admits, “for a space to be susceptible to forum analysis, it must be owned or controlled by the government.” She cites several examples of public forums but they are government property — public schools, public parks, city buses, federal workplaces. One exception she mentions is a privately owned theater under lease to a city, but that can be distinguished from Twitter, which is not on lease to the government. Judge Buchwald’s slippery slope argument claims that because Trump is the president and he’s using Twitter, that translates into government control. Yet at the same time, she admits, “Twitter also maintains control over the @realDonaldTrump account.” Ultimately, Twitter has the final authority over the account, and could even delete it. Twitter often suspends users. Trump may have one of the most popular accounts on Twitter, but he doesn’t control the platform, he merely controls a small element of his personal account. He hasn’t magically transformed private property into public property. If allowed to stand, this decision would set a dangerous precedent. Any private company utilized by governmental leaders could be designated a public forum, with the officials forced to listen to anyone who disagrees with them. Why stop with Twitter, why not designate coffee shops and bars as public forums since officials frequently engage in political debates there? Why not designate any private location, app or social media that Trump frequents as a public forum? While it is true that much of our political debate today occurs on social media like Facebook and Twitter, instead of a public square in downtown, it doesn’t automatically transform these new places for discussion into public forums. This decision isn’t surprising. The courts are dominated by left-leaning judges. Judge Buchwald was appointed by President Clinton. The plaintiffs knew they had a good shot at getting a judge who would stretch the law in order to rule against Trump. They probably forum shopped to pick Buchwald, who is a Senior Judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Trump should be able to block rude tweets directed at him. Compare it to the private telephone system — if someone repeatedly calls the White House to rudely criticize him, he can block their calls. Just because he uses the phone system too doesn’t make him obliged to take calls from bullies. The phone system doesn’t become a public forum because Trump talks on the telephone. Trump’s tweeting has proven to be powerful and influential. His enemies would love to dismantle his ability to speak immediately and directly to the American people. This is just the beginning of those efforts to stop his tweeting.
The Trump administration slapped new steel and aluminum tariffs on Europe, Canada and Mexico Thursday morning after President Trump issued a proclamation from the White House laying out the terms. "Today, President Donald J. Trump signed two proclamations, which note that measures are in place to address the impairment to the national security threatened by imports of steel and aluminum from Argentina, Brazil, and Australia," White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders released in a statement. "At this time, similar measures are not in place with respect to steel or aluminum imports from Mexico, Canada, or the European Union. Therefore, as of June 1, 2018, tariffs will no longer be suspended for steel or aluminum imports from those countries. The Administration will continue discussions with them and remains open to discussions with other countries." "The Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs have already had major, positive effects on steel and aluminum workers and jobs and will continue to do so long into the future. At the same time, the Trump Administration’s actions underscore its commitment to good-faith negotiations with our allies to enhance our national security while supporting American workers," she continued. "The Administration will continue to monitor steel and aluminum imports and adjust the measures in effect as necessary to protect the national security of the United States." White House officials addressed critics of the move during a call Thursday, saying the tariffs are necessary to protect the national security of the United States. "The president's tariffs are working to stimulate investment and are essential to our national and economic security," a senior White House official said, noting a new aluminum rolling plant will be opening in the U.S. next month. "This is not an action against them, it's simply an action to defend our industries as President Trump said he would." Earlier this week, the administration also announced additional tariffs on China in an effort to combat the theft of U.S. intellectual property and technology.
I wanted California to decriminalize marijuana because I believe in freedom. Smoking pot may not be a wise choice in many cases, but it’s not the role of government to dictate private behavior so long as people aren’t violating the rights of others. Politicians, by contrast, are interested in legalization because they see dollar signs. They want to tax marijuana consumption so they can have more money to spend (I half-joked that this was a reason to keep it illegal, but that’s a separate issue). Lawmakers need to realize, though, that the Laffer Curve is very real. They may not like it, but there’s very strong evidence that imposing lots of taxes does not necessarily mean collecting lots of revenue. Especially when tax rates are onerous. Here’s some of what the AP recently reported about California’s experiment with taxing pot. "So far, the sale of legal marijuana in California isn’t bringing in the green stuff. Broad legal sales kicked off on Jan. 1. State officials had estimated California would bank $175 million from excise and cultivation taxes by the end of June. But estimates released Tuesday by the state Legislative Analyst’s Office show just $34 million came in between January and March. […] It’s unlikely California will reap $175 million by midyear." And here are some excerpts from a KHTS story. "Governor Jerry Brown’s January budget proposal predicted that $175 million would pour into the state’s coffers from excise and cultivation taxes […] analysts believe revenue will be significantly lower. […] Some politicians argue high taxes are to blame for the revenue shortfalls preventing that prediction from becoming reality, saying the black market is “undercutting” the legal one. […] The current taxes on legal marijuana businesses include a 15 percent excise tax on purchases of all cannabis and cannabis products, including medicinal marijuana. The law also added a $9.25 tax for every ounce of bud grown and a $2.75-an-ounce tax on dried cannabis leaves for cultivators." These results should not have been a surprise. I’ve been warning – over and over again – that politicians need to pay attention to the Laffer Curve. Simply stated, high tax rates don’t necessarily produce high revenuesif taxpayers have the ability to alter their behavior. That happens with income taxes. It happens with consumption taxes. And it happens with taxes on marijuana. Moreover, it’s not just cranky libertarians who make this point. Vox isn’t a site know for rabid support of supply-side economics, so it’s worth noting some of the findings from a recent article on pt taxes. "After accounting for substitution between products by consumers, we find that the tax-inclusive price faced by consumers for identical products increased by 2.3%. We find that the quantity purchased decreased by 0.95% […] implying a short-term price elasticity of -0.43. However, over time, the magnitude of the quantity response significantly increases, and our estimates suggest that the price elasticity of demand is about negative one within two weeks of the reform. We conclude that Washington, the state with the highest marijuana taxes in the country, is near the peak of the Laffer curve – further increases in tax rates may not increase revenue. […] Tax revenue has historically been one of the many arguments in favour of legalising marijuana. […] The optimal taxation of marijuana should be designed to take into account responses…excessive taxation might prop up the very black markets that legal marijuana is intended to supplant. As additional jurisdictions consider legalising marijuana and debate over optimal policy design, these trade-offs should be explored and taken into account. Let’s close by reviewing some interesting passages from a McClatchey report, starting with some observations about the harmful impact of excessive taxes. "Owners of legalized cannabis operations face a range of challenges… But taxes – local, state, federal – present a particular headache. They are a big reason why, in California and other states, only a small percentage of cannabis growers and retailers have chosen to get licensed and come out of the shadows. […] In a March report, Fitch Ratings suggested that California may not realize the tax revenue – $1 billion a year – the state projected when Proposition 64, a legalization initiative, was put before voters in 2016. “While it is still too early to assess California’s revenue performance, comparatively high taxes on legal cannabis will likely continue to divert sales to illegal markets, reducing potential tax collections,” Fitch said in its report. […] Add it all up, and state-legal cannabis in some parts of California could be taxed at an effective rate of 45 percent, Fitch said in a report last year." Interestingly, even politicians realize they need to adapt to the harsh reality of the Laffer Curve. "Some state lawmakers blame the taxation for creating a price gap between legal and illegal pot that could doom California’s regulated market. Last month, Assembly members Tom Lackey, R-Palmdale, and Rob Bonta, D-Oakland, introduced legislation, AB 3157, that would reduce the state marijuana sales tax rate from 15 percent to 11 percent, and suspend all cultivation taxes until June 2021." And I can’t resist including one final passage that has nothing to do with taxes. Instead, it’s a reference to the lingering effect of Obama’s dreadful Operation Choke Point. "Davies owns Canna Care, a medical marijuana dispensary in Sacramento. Like other state-legal cannabis businesses nationwide, her pot shop operates largely with cash. Most banks won’t transact with enterprises deemed illegal by the U.S. government. That forces Davies to stuff $10,000 in bills into her purse each month… even lawyers who represent state-legal marijuana businesses face financial risks. Sacramento lawyer Khurshid Khoja recently lost his two bank accounts with Umpqua Bank, after Umpqua started asking him about his state-legal cannabis clients." The good news is that Trump has partially eased this awful policy. The bad news is that he only took a small step in the right direction. But let’s get back to our main topic. I’ve written several times on whether our friends on the left are capable of learning about the Laffer Curve. Especially in cases when they imposed a tax in hopes of changing behavior! What’s happening in California with pot taxes is simply the latest example. And I’m hoping leftists will apply the lesson to taxes on things that we don’t want to discourage – such as work, saving, investment, and entrepreneurship. P.S. I’ve pointed out that some leftists want high tax rates on income even if no money is collected. That’s because their real goal is punishing success. I wonder if there are some conservatives who are pushing punitive marijuana taxes because they want to discourage “sin” rather than collect revenue.
Virtue-signaling rarely makes for good business…but apparently, Dick’s is the exception. The sporting goods chain’s shares skyrocketed on Wednesday, now up over 26 percent, making it the biggest one-day jump the company has seen since it went public in 2002. The news comes after Dick’s reported unexpectedly high first-quarter earnings. The company’s estimated revenue was $1.88 billion, but it ended up raking in a whopping $1.91 billion, a 4.6 percent increase from last year. The sporting goods chain also saw a rise in e-commerce sales, and overall profit was up 3.2 percent at $60.1 million. "Our strong first quarter earnings reflect improved execution against our merchandising strategy, which resulted in higher merchandise margins," Chairman and CEO Edward W. Stack explained in a press release. "Product newness, strength in our private brands and a more refined assortment led to a much healthier business, with fewer promotions and cleaner inventory throughout the quarter." However, the spike in sales is still perplexing given Dick’s decision to introduce a number of controversial, anti-gun policies in the wake of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglass High School in Parkland, Florida. First, the sporting goods chain announced it would no longer sell firearms to anyone under the age of 21, despite federal law allowing eligible 18-year-olds to purchase long guns. In the same announcement, Dick’s also vowed to stop selling so-called assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. Despite angering a significant portion of its customer base, and facing a few lawsuits, the company didn’t stop there; it decided it also needed to hire a gun control lobbyist. Many threatened to stop shopping at the sporting goods store in response, and, for a short time, Dick’s was feeling it. In March, Fortune reported that the company “posted a deeper-than-expected sales decline” and “its stock sank the most in four months.” A few months later, a handful of gun manufacturers decided they’d had enough of the company sticking up its middle finger to the pro-gun community and severed ties with the chain. “It has come to our attention that Dick’s Sporting Goods recently hired lobbyists on Capitol Hill to promote additional gun control,” Iver Mossberg, Chief Executive Officer of O.F. Mossberg & Sons, said in a statement. “Make no mistake, Mossberg is a staunch supporter of the U.S. Constitution and our Second Amendment rights, and we fully disagree with Dick’s Sporting Goods’ recent anti-Second Amendment actions.” MKS Supply, the producer of Hi-Point Firearms, followed suit. “In recent months, Dick's Sporting Goods and its subsidiary, Field & Stream, have shown themselves, in our opinion, to be no friend of Americans' Second Amendment,” MKS Supply President Charles Brown said in a statement. “We believe that refusing to sell long guns to adults under 21, while many young adults in our military are not similarly restricted, is wrong. We believe that villanizing modern sporting rifles in response to pressure from uninformed, anti-gun voices is wrong. We believe that hiring lobbyists to oppose American citizens' freedoms secured by the Second Amendment is wrong. Dick's Sporting Goods and Field & Stream, in purportedly doing all of these things, have demonstrated that they do not share our values.” Springfield Armory posted a similar message to Facebook. Having such big names in the gun industry publicly slam the chain for its anti-gun stance definitely wasn’t a good look for Dick's. But if today's report is any indication, it seems things are turning back around for the company. According to a report, Dick’s is still seeing a dip in hunting product sales, but other departments are doing well. Although, it’s not clear how long the company’s good fortune will last. An analyst from the Center for Financial Research & Analysis (CFRA), Victor Ahluwalia, told U.S. News Dick’s has a tough year ahead of it. "We expect the company to face difficulty in growing sales comps in [fiscal 2019] amid excessive discounting in the physical sporting goods retail environment," Ahluwalia said. It seems Dick's uncertain future is more a side effect of the business Dick’s is in, rather than it’s new anti-gun policies. Either way, angering millions of law-abiding gun owners and Second Amendment supporters who are potential customers with its ridiculous policies probably doesn't help.
All Tatum wanted was a puppy of her very own. She had been begging her parents for years to bring a little fuzzy, furry friend into their family. She even had the perfect name picked out for a future puppy: Winston. “It’s been three years since my daughter first asked for a puppy,” Tatum’s mom said. “Every single time she walks by a little puppy, she says, ‘Look, Mom, it’s Winston!'” With Tatum’s birthday quickly approaching, her mom knew exactly how to make Tatum’s puppy dreams come true. “One week before her actual birthday, my good friend and her son helped us create the big surprise,” her mother said. “They posed as new dog owners of a sweet little poochon (poodle and bichon frise) puppy who they ‘named’ Winston.” TRENDING: Mother Cries Tears of Joy After Daughter Who Went Missing 24 Years Ago is Found A post shared by Bobbi (@manlikebobbi) on May 30, 2018 at 11:32am PDT “We were eating dinner out and they came strolling by ‘unexpectedly’ while we ate.” The mom’s friend explained that they got the adorable little puppy over the weekend. When Tatum hears that they named the puppy Winston, she is in complete shock. “I heard you guys wanted to name your dog Winston and I loved it!” the friend said. Her son then asked Tatum if she wants to hold the dog, and of course, she eagerly took the puppy from his arms. As she cradled the puppy in her arms, she marveled at how cute he is. They continued to talk for a few minutes about the poochon in her arms, when her mom — who is recording the entire thing — said, “Hey Tatum, look at me.” Tatum turns and her mom said, “Happy Birthday.” It took a split second for the news to sink in; the puppy Tatum was holding actually belonged to her. RELATED: Mom Tricks Little Girl Into Thinking She’s Adopting Guinea Pig, Puppy Comes Around Corner “Oh my gosh!” she cried, unable to hold in the waterworks of happiness. “He’s your Winston,” someone off camera said. Tatum sat down and sobbed with pure joy over her birthday present, who was happily still sitting in her arms. It’s clear that this little puppy will be well loved for its entire life by the little girl who got him as the perfect surprise. Submit your story here, and subscribe to our best uplifting stories here. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The Wisconsin Assembly approved the massive Foxconn package Thursday, two days after the Wisconsin Senate did the same. The bill was approved on a mostly party line vote of 64-31. Four Democrats voted for the bill and two Republicans voted against it. It will now to be sent to Governor Scott Walker for his signature. The Foxconn deal has been in a constant state of evolution since Walker announced in July that the company intends to bring a factory to southeast Wisconsin. What started with the state offering $1.25 billion in tax credits has increased to just under $3 billion. Foxconn has pledged to create up to 13,000 jobs in the state. Democrats in both chambers have echoed concerns about environmental waivers granted to the factory and an expedited judicial process for Foxconn-related lawsuits. In the Senate, Republican legislators accepted an amendment that would give the state Supreme Court the option to hear Foxconn lawsuits faster. Neither the Senate nor the Assembly accepted any amendments on the environmental waivers. In a statement, Republican Majority Leader Jim Steineke said, “I am excited by the prospects Foxconn will bring to Wisconsin. Every family and business throughout the state will see the benefits of this investment for our communities and economy. I look forward to Governor Walker signing the bill into law.” In a tweet following the vote, Democratic Rep. Melissa Sargent, who represents Madison and Maple Bluff, said that “[I] Just voted NO on the Foxconn bill because it’s bad policy and #RiggedAgainstWI.” Democrats had tried to portray the deal as “rigged” against Wisconsin workers because of the massive tax credits the company will be receiving. Minority leader Peter Barca voted for the bill, but is resigning his leadership post on Sept. 30 after a closed door session with Democratic legislators earlier in the month where his colleagues demonstrated their frustration with him. The bill now heads to Walker, who is expected to sign it.
WASHINGTON (AP) — A North Korean envoy is coming to Washington bearing a letter for President Donald Trump from Kim Jong Un. This has been going on for days. Like in the old days. Kim Yong Chol was spotted Wednesday at Beijing's airport, where he boarded a commercial flight to the U.S. On Thursday, he met Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in New York. Now it's on to Washington, still carrying that letter, which in some fashion is a response to a letter Trump dictated for Kim. The fate of a historic U.S.-North Korea summit may rest on what's in Kim's letter. And it's all unfolding at the speed of pen pals.
​He nicked a Knick and hasn’t been able to stay out of trouble since. ​A US Army vet who ​got a slap on the wrist for stabbing ​ex-Knick​s player Chris Copeland​ ​and then blew the sweetheart deal, landing himself behind bars for six months, ​has now violated his probation​ ​​and will have to serve another year. Shevoy Bleary-Murdock ​had initially​ worked out ​a plea deal for what amounted to about a week in jail — served on weekends — and five years’ probation in exchange for a guilty plea to stabbing Copeland outside a Chelsea nightclub in 2015. ​But the 25-year-old​ ​was pulled over in a Mercedes-Benz in Brooklyn just three days after he took the June 2016 deal, and was busted with 17 forged credit cards, marijuana and an unloaded high-capacity magazine, prosecutors said. Judge Gregory Carro sentenced him to six months behind bars. This time around,​ Bleary-Murdock was busted ​in New Jersey on assault charges, and found himself back before Carro on Wednesday after serving 10 months behind bars for his ID theft case. Carro slapped him with the year-long jail term for violating his probation. Bleary-Murdock was immediately taken into custody. Bleary-Murdock’s lawyer did not immediately return a message.
A 28-year-old mom of 10 is accused of burning her infant child on purpose with a hair straightener, according to reports. Stephanie Nicole Rodriguez of Lubbock, Texas, was indicted by a grand jury Tuesday on a charge for intentional injury to a child causing serious bodily injury, news station KCBD reported. Rodriguez was arrested earlier this month in connection to the August 2017 incident in which she reportedly burned her 7-month-old baby on the arm with a straightener. The indictment alleged that the mom “intentionally or knowingly” hurt the child with a “deadly weapon.” Just hours after she was arrested, Rodriguez was rushed to the hospital where she delivered her 10th child, a baby girl, news station KLBK reported. The newborn was placed in the custody of child protective services, police said. She told authorities that her other children were either adopted or placed in the custody of relatives. Rodriguez was released from the hospital and returned to Lubbock County Detention Center, where she remains held on $27,000 bond.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un secured an invitation to Moscow on Thursday as a top Russian diplomat visited Pyongyang. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov met with Kim in the North Korean capital, clearly demonstrating Russia’s determination not to have its interests left out of the geopolitical shifts on the Korean Peninsula. “Come to Russia. We would be very happy to see you,” Lavrov told Kim, passing along Russian President Vladimir Putin’s “warmest regards and best wishes.” The meeting, which occurred as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo sits down with senior North Korean official Kim Yong Chol in New York City, is the latest in a series of meetings shattering North Korea’s diplomatic isolation. In late March, Kim traveled secretly to China for a state visit with Chinese President Xi Jinping focused on repairing strained and tattered ties between Beijing and Pyongyang. The trip marked his first trip abroad since he took power six years ago. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Kim made another trip to China in early May, after he met South Korean President Moon Jae-in at their first inter-Korean summit. The North Korean leader first met his South Korean counterpart on April 27, doing so on South Korean soil. The two leaders held a surprise second summit on North Korean soil just days after President Donald Trump canceled his summit with Kim, demonstrating that talks can continue regardless of U.S. actions. Despite tensions, the two Korean leaders embraced one another as friends. The Trump administration appears convinced that the maximum pressure strategy, which aimed to strangle the North Korean economy while isolating the country diplomatically, is bringing Kim to the negotiating table, a view not held by the North Koreans. Do you think Russia's actions will hurt the relationship between the U.S. and North Korea? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. The administration, currently engaging North Korean officials to salvage the scrapped Trump-Kim summit, has said that if talks fail, the U.S. will continue to exert pressure on North Korea until it decides to return to the negotiating table. “I think we are looking for something historic. I think we’re looking for something that has never done before. And be it for whatever reason the North Koreans say they’re not ready to do something like that,” a senior State Department official explained to reporters Wednesday. “We will ramp up the pressure on them and we’ll be ready for the day that hopefully they are.” But, it may be difficult to restart the maximum pressure campaign, as China, South Korea and Russia are already discussing economic reform and cooperation, even possible sanctions relief, with North Korean officials, which are now also regularly meeting with their relevant foreign counterparts. “The multilateral pressure coalition has fallen apart,” Mira Rapp-Hooper, an Asia expert at Yale Law School’s Paul Tsai China Center, recently told The Washington Post. RELATED: Report: KJU Realizes State of NK Economy, Breaks Down on Camera Kim’s ascension to the world stage as a statesman stands to potentially undermine the administration’s fallback plan should the Trump-Kim summit not occur or the two sides fail to reach an agreement, possibly leaving only the threat of force on the table. Pyongyang’s newfound connections to Beijing, Moscow and Seoul may, however, make such threats less persuasive. A version of this article appeared on The Daily Caller News Foundation website. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Hillary Clinton strolled through the Memorial Day Parade in Chappaqua, an affluent New York City suburb where she now lives. She attends the parade every year, but on Monday the buzz was about who she attended it with – New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who finds himself in a Democratic primary battle with “Sex and the City” actress Cynthia Nixon as he seeks re-election. The parade was a good respite for Clinton, who has spent the better part of 18 months seeking sympathy and blaming everyone but herself for her still bitter loss to Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election. Over the course of Clinton’s public appearances she has made striking comments about American voters, and in particular women voters – especially women who voted for Trump over her, accusing them of being insufficiently committed to female empowerment. Clinton all but branded such women as traitors to their own sex and opponents of the advancement of women. Why else, in her mind, could women possibly oppose her efforts to become America’s first female president? Does Hillary feel uncomfortable with a woman in a position of power and exercising leadership of one of the most populous states? Does she feel being governor is really a man’s job? More than half of white women voters cast ballots for Trump. And some 61 percent of white women without a college degree also backed Trump over Clinton. Trump also carried about 44 percent of the college-educated white female vote. This must have been extraordinarily upsetting to Clinton, who saw herself as the champion of women and deserving of just about every woman’s support. Particularly since her only real campaign message was shattering that glass ceiling to catchy pop songs. Just last month, while speaking in India, Clinton railed on about how Democrats “do not do well with white men, and we don’t do well with married, white women. … And part of that is an identification with the Republican Party, and a sort of ongoing pressure to vote the way that your husband, your boss, your son, whoever, believes you should.” In Australia, Clinton once again spoke of perceived sexism in American politics and culture by telling interviewer Julia Gillard: “There is still a very large proportion of the population that is uneasy with women in positions of leadership. … There is this fear, there is this anger, even rage about women seeking power, women exercising power and people fall back on these attacks like you’re a witch or you should go to prison.” One of these deplorable women Hillary Clinton is referring to must be the person she sees every time she looks in the mirror. How else could anyone possibly explain her betrayal of womankind with her endorsement of Andrew Cuomo over Cynthia Nixon? Unless, of course, Clinton’s choice of Cuomo over Nixon is based on her own study of the policy positions and leadership qualities of each candidate and she is supporting the one she feels best represents her as a constituent. But if that’s the case, then that also applies to intelligent, independent women who chose Donald Trump over her. Yet since her election loss, Clinton has refused to account for that scenario and instead written female voters off as puppet slaves trapped in some kind of “Mad Men” reality. In urging more people to support female candidates for office, Clinton recently told a Rutgers University crowd: "We have to keep that pipeline full. It’s not one and out. It’s keep getting more women to run, keep convincing young women to be part of it.” But then Clinton did what she is famous for – doing exactly the opposite of what she said was her position, by endorsing Cuomo over Nixon in the Sept. 13 New York primary for governor. According to Clinton, the only reason she must be endorsing Cuomo over Nixon is because her husband Bill, her brother, or her son-in-law are pressuring her to do so. Hillary must also be afraid, angry, even full of rage, over Nixon challenging Cuomo. Does she feel uncomfortable with a woman in a position of power and exercising leadership of one of the most populous states? Does she feel being governor is really a man’s job? With Clinton’s endorsement, perhaps Nixon could surge over Cuomo in the Democratic primary for governor. Nixon also could have been helped if former Vice President Joe Biden would have endorsed her instead of Cuomo. But neither Hillary nor Biden endorsed her. Of all the female candidates seeking office this year, perhaps none hold as high a profile as Cynthia Nixon, who offers a path and a face for the far leftist Tea-Party-like insurgent wing of the Democrats desperate for fresh faces. But because Clinton chose to give in to her worst sexist impulses and accept male domination – the same thing she’s repeatedly accused female voters of doing when it came to her own candidacy – Nixon looks to be a footnote in New York politics. Meanwhile, both New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and Andrew Cuomo plot possible presidential runs in 2020. This certainly isn’t the biggest or most blatant example of hypocrisy in Hillary Clinton’s history, but it is one of the more illuminating ones, given how much she has attempted to align herself with Women’s March activists and targeted women voters for their own choices when she ran unsuccessfully for president. And as she’s done so often over the course of her career, Hillary Clinton sets a trap for herself and then walks right into it. Even as she encourages more women to run for office, as she wrote for Cosmopolitan last October, her establishment cronyism prevents her from helping many women shatter the glass ceiling she tried and failed to shatter herself. Clinton has stated she will be marching side by side with the Democratic Party all the way to midterms in November. “I will be there every step of the way because we are going to take back the country we love.” she declared in while in Washington. As it turns out, that march she is on includes the old boys’ network she simultaneously claims needs to be dismantled for real change to occur in America for women. With Hillary there are always two standards. The ones she expects of everyone else, and the ones she holds for herself. It turns out, once again, that the only person standing in the way of real change is Hillary Clinton.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The Culture War reached into the quiet Washington D.C. exurban town of Purcellville, Va. last week. This is how the Left makes examples out of ordinary folks in order to transform America from the “home of the brave” into a nation of people deathly afraid to speak up. Who wants to be turned into an object of hate for offending one of the Left’s identity groups? On Friday, May 18, a Boy Scout and his father entered Nichols Hardware and asked for a donation for the boy’s Eagle Scout project. Nichols is uniquely retro. A family-owned store established 104 years ago in Western Loudoun County, it has warped wooden floors, a tin ceiling and anything that a good hardware store would carry in 1914 or in 2018. Its staff of primarily older men painstakingly assist customers in finding whatever they need to complete a project, and the owners donate to charities, including the Scouts. And therein lies the rub. Over the past five years, the Scouts have cratered, morally speaking. They opened their ranks to homosexual leaders, transgenders and girls and even excised the word “boy” from the program’s name, which is now Scouts USA. The newly liberated Scouts will even provide condoms at their upcoming Jamboree. Somehow, they didn’t need them before. Anyway, a Nichols employee reportedly in his 70s allegedly responded curtly to the boy’s request and told him and his father to leave. He then allegedly told a woman customer, “you know they let homos in, right? They are not “boy” scouts anymore.” Well, these days, accuracy is no defense, not that it excuses rudeness or name-calling. The woman went straight to Facebook and posted an item titled: “I just witnessed the most ugly, rude homophobic encounter at NICHOL’S Hardware in Purcellville Va.” “I am SO upset!!!!!” (caps in original). The incident became the lead story in the Washington Post Metro section. The woman described the senior citizen employee as “this vile creature.” She vowed never to set foot again in “your redneck little store.” That’s the sweet smell of love and tolerance, in case you missed it. Store manager Glenn, who declined to provide his last name, told me over the telephone that someone else had terminated the employee. The Post carried a victory story the next day, followed by Post Metro columnist Petula Dvorak’s rant on Friday entitled, “No, those weren’t the good old days.” She painted Purcellville, America itself and “nostalgia” as rotten to the core. Reciting a litany of “the ugliest pieces of our past,” she quoted an author who says, “there was no golden age of family life.” So, if you enjoy the Andy Griffith Show, you must harbor KKK sympathies. Somehow, I recall no other stories in the Post about rude employees being given a pink slip. They did extensively cover the Starbucks imbroglio over two black non-customers being denied use of a restroom and arrested after refusing to leave. Starbucks will close its 8,000 stores next Tuesday afternoon to subject its 175,000 employees to “unconscious bias training.” Any barista who emulates Martin Luther King’s colorblind “content of their character” outlook had better instead fixate 24/7 on race, gender and sexuality. The Nichols story wound up in national media and even overseas, according to Glenn, who said he would like to personally apologize to the Scout and his father. He said the store still supports the Scouts and that the employee had been warned previously to keep political comments to himself. From the store’s point of view, this was mostly about an employee crossing the rudeness line, which, if the woman’s account was accurate, he should not have done. To activists, it was a delicious opportunity to crucify someone. There was so much negative comment that Yelp suspended Nichols’ page. In 2015, during passage of Indiana’s religious freedom bill, a Christian-owned pizza shop came under vicious attack. An activist asked a girl at the counter hypothetically whether the shop would cater a same-sex wedding, and she politely replied that she didn’t think so. Cue the local TV crew. Protests erupted. One woman Tweeted: "Who's going to Walkerton with me to burn down Memories Pizza." Shop supporters raised more than $842,000 for it on GoFundMe, but last month, three years after being targeted, Memories Pizza closed its doors and is apparently just a memory. The family who owned Memories Pizza had Bible verses on the wall. They said they valued all customers but drew the line at being forced to service events weighted with moral meaning. In June, the U.S. Supreme Court will rule on this very question in Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. It’s anyone’s bet whether the justices will honor the First Amendment’s religious freedom guarantee or add another brick to the Left’s wall of cultural tyranny. As for Nichols Hardware, they just want to sell screwdrivers and wheelbarrows and treat all customers with respect. Maybe they’ll be left alone. For now.
Obama Sec. of Education and staunch gun control advocate Arne Duncan sends his kids to a school with armed security. On May 20 Breitbart News reported that Duncan suggested Americans ought to pull their kids from school until Congress passes more gun control. He said he and his family would even be willing to take part in the school boycott if it were done “at scale,” i.e., if there were broad-based participation in such a boycott. Duncan made this suggestion in the immediate aftermath of the attack on Santa Fe High School. He did not call for armed teachers or other armed personnel in schools. Rather, he simply focused on gun control. All the while, Duncan sends his children to a school that affords them armed protection. Jewish World Review reports that Duncan’s children “attend the exclusive, private University of Chicago Laboratory Schools in tony Hyde Park, which a Lab Schools brochure brags is ‘patrolled by the University of Chicago Police Department (UCPD) and private security.'” The school’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report explains that students who wish can even get a police escort when walking, stating, “University students, faculty, or staff within the UCPD service area can request an escort at any time from the UCPD if they feel uncomfortable with their surroundings. Call the UCPD and give your location, and someone will be dispatched to accompany you as you walk.” So while Duncan is pushing more Second Amendment restrictions for commoners, his children attend a school where they enjoy the protection derived from good guys with guns. AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. U.S. threats to crush Iran and North Korea may yet work, but as of now neither Tehran nor Pyongyang appears to be intimidated. Repeated references by NSC adviser John Bolton and Vice President Mike Pence to the "Libya model" for denuclearization of North Korea just helped sink the Singapore summit of President Trump and Kim Jong Un. To North Korea, the Libya model means the overthrow and murder of Libya strongman Col. Gadhafi, after he surrendered his WMD. Wednesday, North Korean Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son Hui exploded at Pence's invocation of Libya: "Vice-President Pence has made unbridled and impudent remarks that North Korea might end like Libya ... I cannot suppress my surprise at such ignorant and stupid remarks. "Whether the U.S. will meet us at a meeting room or encounter us at nuclear-to-nuclear showdown is entirely dependent upon the decision and behavior of the United States." Yesterday, Trump canceled the Singapore summit. Earlier this week at the Heritage Foundation, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo laid out our Plan B for Iran in a speech that called to mind Prussian Field Marshal Karl Von Moltke. Among Pompeo's demands: Iran must end all support for Hezbollah in Lebanon, the Houthi rebels in Yemen, and Hamas in Gaza, withdraw all forces under Iranian command in Syria, and disarm its Shiite militia in Iraq. Iran must confess its past lies about a nuclear weapons program, and account publicly for all such activity back into the 20th century. Iran must halt all enrichment of uranium, swear never to produce plutonium, shut down its heavy water reactor, open up its military bases to inspection to prove it has no secret nuclear program, and stop testing ballistic missiles. And unless Iran submits, she will be strangled economically. What Pompeo delivered was an ultimatum: Iran is to abandon all its allies in all Mideast wars, or face ruin and possible war with the USA. It is hard to recall a secretary of state using the language Pompeo deployed: "We will track down Iranian operatives and their Hezbollah proxies operating around the world and crush them. Iran will never again have carte blanche to dominate the Middle East." But how can Iran "dominate" a Mideast that is home to Turkey, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Israel and Egypt, as well as U.S. forces in Afghanistan, Iraq, the Persian Gulf, the Arabian Sea and Syria? To Iran's east is a nuclear-armed Pakistan. To its west is a nuclear-armed U.S. Fifth Fleet and a nuclear-armed Israel. Iran has no nukes, no warships to rival ours and a 1970s air force. Yet, this U.S.-Iran confrontation, triggered by Trump's trashing of the nuclear deal and Pompeo's ultimatum, is likely to end one of three ways: First, Tehran capitulates, which is unlikely, as President Hassan Rouhani retorted to Pompeo: "Who are you to decide for Iran and the world? We will continue our path with the support of our nation." Added Ayatollah Khamenei, "Iran's presence in the region is our strategic depth." Second, Iran defies U.S. sanctions and continues to support its allies in Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, Yemen. This would seem likely to lead to collisions and war. Third, the U.S. could back off its maximalist demands, as Trump backed off Bolton's demand that Kim Jong Un accept the Libyan model of total and verifiable disarmament before any sanctions are lifted. Where, then, are we headed? While our NATO allies are incensed by Trump's threat to impose secondary sanctions if they do not re-impose sanctions on Tehran, the Europeans are likely to cave in to America's demands. For Europe to choose Iran over a U.S. that has protected Europe since the Cold War began and is an indispensable market for Europe's goods would be madness. Vladimir Putin appears to want no part of an Iran-Israel or U.S.-Iran war and has told Bashar Assad that Russia will not be selling Damascus his S-300 air defense system. Putin has secured his bases in Syria and wants to keep them. As for the Chinese, she will take advantage of the West's ostracism of Iran by drawing Iran closer to her own orbit. Is there a compromise to be had? Perhaps, for some of Pompeo's demands accord with the interests of Iran, which cannot want a war with the United States, or with Israel, which would likely lead to war with the United States. Iran could agree to release Western prisoners, move Shiite militia in Syria away from the Golan Heights, accept verifiable restrictions on tests of longer-range missiles and establish deconfliction rules for U.S. and Iranian warships in the Persian Gulf. Reward: aid from the West and renewed diplomatic relations with the United States. Surely, a partial, verifiable nuclear disarmament of North Korea is preferable to war on the peninsula. And, surely, a new nuclear deal with Iran with restrictions on missiles is preferable to war in the Gulf. Again, we cannot make the perfect the enemy of the good.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Commentators, almost always from the right, have documented liberal media bias for many years now. And the response by the perpetrators of this bias has been both constant and predictable: Circle the wagons and blame the accusers. Accuse us of bias for seeing their bias. The bias we've been talking and writing about is usually about partisan politics and hot social issues like abortion. But there's one kind of liberal media bias that hasn't gotten much attention. It's a bias that liberals both in and out of the media often attach to conservatives, but almost never to themselves. It's racial bias. My friend Lee Habeeb, a conservative radio executive who appears on cable TV from time to time, has written a piece in Newsweek about how too many journalists have played down -- and often downright ignored -- the murder of young black men in places like Chicago. "In Chicago, it's Parkland every week," Habeeb writes about a city that had more than 1,400 homicides in 2016 and 2017. And in just the first week of May 2018, 84 people were shot -- nine of them wound up dead. Journalists, of course, care very much about young black men who are shot -- when the person doing the shooting is a cop. Then, news organizations, even those based a thousand miles away, report the names of the dead -- like Michael Brown who was killed by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri -- and (rightly) give as much information as possible about their deaths. "But Americans know none of the thousands of innocent young black men and women killed by other black men in our nation's third largest city -- and across America," writes Habeeb. "There's a reason. A young black male's life is not worth reporting when it is taken by another black male. That's the real racism that prevails in America's newsrooms. The marginalization of black urban life." Habeeb believes that liberal journalists don't like the storyline. "Journalists and activists can't blame the deaths on assault style weapons like the AR-15. Or the National Rifle Association." It's true. Black on black murder doesn't fit the liberal journalists' template -- and not only because assault weapons aren't involved. Liberals journalists don't feel comfortable when it comes to reporting dysfunction in black neighborhoods in places like Chicago. If white kids in tony suburbs were being gunned down in such horrific numbers, you can be sure that the liberal media would more than simply take note. They'd run stories on Page 1 for days on end. Does that mean that liberals think white lives matter more than black lives? It's not that simple -- not when you introduce paternalism and white liberal guilt into the mix. When it comes to the slaughter of black young men, liberal journalists fear that playing up this kind of bad news could give ammunition to bigots, who might use the information to bolster their already nasty opinions of African-Americans. And since much of the killing is the work of fatherless young men, that's another important story the national media would rather play down, and for the same reason. More dysfunction amounts to more ammo for the bigots. "About 20,000 people live in my hometown of Oxford, Mississippi," Habeeb says, "and there are probably as many guns. But I can't remember the last murder spree in the local paper. That's because my town has lots of guns, but lots of fathers, too." Too many on the left, whether they're in the media or not, worry about their "good racial manners," a term that Shelby Steele, a black conservative scholar came up with. And it would be anything but good racial manners to give black on black murders the space the story deserves in the national media. Playing down uncomfortable truths about crime and dysfunction in places like Chicago is how liberal journalists show how decent they are, how protective of black people they are. But mostly, it makes them feel noble -- about themselves. Liberal whites, Shelby Steele says, "must always imagine blacks outside the framework of individual responsibility." It's how white liberals redeem themselves from "America's racial shame," as Steele explains it. But as the headline over Habeeb's column in Newsweek points out: "America's real racism? Ignoring the senseless killing of our black fatherless boys." It's not just America's racism in general. It's also the media's racism in particular.
1:38 Polyamorous ‘love coaches’ want to help couples looking to swing Two’s company, three’s a crowd, but for married couple Carl and Kenya Stevens, three is also their business. The polyamorous duo started JuJuMama Academy in Asheville, North Carolina, which aims to counsel couples through the unique challenges of an open relationship. “A lot of people are making a big mess out of it. They are not seeing it as a process,” love coach Carl said. “I think by 2050 it will be normal like monogamous.” 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals.
President Donald J. Trump announced Thursday he will pardon conservative author and filmmaker Dinesh D’Souza, who was convicted of breaking campaign finance laws in 2014. “Will be giving a Full Pardon to Dinesh D’Souza today. He was treated very unfairly by our government!” President Trump tweeted: Will be giving a Full Pardon to Dinesh D’Souza today. He was treated very unfairly by our government! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018 In 2014, D’Souza pleaded guilty after reimbursing two straw donors who contributed to Wendy Long’s 2012 campaign for the U.S. Senate. Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney of the Southern District of New York who was fired by President Trump, released a statement of the conviction. “Dinesh D’Souza attempted to illegally contribute over $10,000 to a Senate campaign, wilfully undermining the integrity of the campaign finance process,” Bharara wrote. “Like many others before him, of all political stripes, he has had to answer for this crime – here with a felony conviction.” Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) welcomed the news, tweeting “Bravo! @realDonaldTrump Dinesh was the subject of a political prosecution, brazenly targeted by the Obama administration bc of his political views. And he’s a powerful voice for freedom, systematically dismantling the lies of the Left—which is why they hate him.” “This is Justice,” Cruz declared: Bravo! @realDonaldTrump Dinesh was the subject of a political prosecution, brazenly targeted by the Obama administration bc of his political views. And he’s a powerful voice for freedom, systematically dismantling the lies of the Left—which is why they hate him. This is Justice. https://t.co/cGHzcgwSnK — Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) May 31, 2018 An official petition for the White House to pardon D’Souza was launched April 14 and garnered 12,145 signatures: We have an official petition to @WhiteHouse requesting that @POTUS @realDonaldTrump pardon @DineshDSouza. It's time! Please sign, RT & make it go viral. We need 100K signatures in 30 days. #PardonDinesh Pardon Dinesh D'Souzahttps://t.co/H7LIRi7udY — Saltwater🏝❤️🅿️atricia 🇺🇸🇹 (@TrumpGirlStrong) April 14, 2018 The conservative pundit’s pardon is the fifth of Donald Trump’s presidency.
The idea of a colony of humans on Mars isn’t just science fiction anymore; NASA and space agencies around the world, along with independent scientists and researchers, are working hard to determine just what it would take for humanity to take root on the Red Planet. Getting there will be an immense challenge, as will setting up structures, creating sustainable sources of food, and battling the inhospitable elements, but sex might be the biggest risk of all. In a new research paper published in Futures, an international team of scientists examines the challenges of reproduction on the Martian surface. It’s a risky proposition, but if humans succeed in conceiving, carrying, and birthing offspring on another world it might actually be the start of a new species. In the paper, the researchers tackle a huge number of potential problems that could crop up when humans are finally ready to rear young on Mars. The first and most obvious hurdle is the low gravity environment, which could pose a serious threat to the conception and pregnancy processes that seem so simple here on Earth. With just one-third the gravity of Earth, Mars travelers will be subjected to a whole range of health problems. Scientists know this because astronauts who have spent months and in some cases years in space have been closely studied for changes to their biology. Lower gravity causes muscles to deteriorate rapidly and can even weaken bone structure. On top of that, astronauts sometimes experience vision problems and even changes to the shape of their brains. These are just the things that perfectly healthy adults have to deal with in space, which is to say nothing of the challenge of actually carrying a child in a microgravity environment. Put simply, we don’t even know if a human mother could carry a child to full term without something going wrong. The paper also examines the inherent challenges of bolstering the numbers of a small colony of settlers on the planet. The concept of “love” might have to take a back seat to pure survival, with men and women being paired up by their biology rather than emotion. Additionally, some individuals may never be allowed to have children due to undesirable traits that are a risk to the colony as a whole. In a somewhat scary aside, the researchers also note that editing the genes of future Mars babies might be an easy way to increase the prospects of survival. Pushing out bad traits and optimizing a human for life on Mars could give us a big edge, but as generations pass it would also result in a new kind of human — one who is fine on Mars but could never live a normal life here on Earth.
Samantha Bee tweeted an apology on Thursday afternoon, saying she “crossed a line” during Wednesday’s episode of her late-night show in which she called White House senior adviser Ivanka Trump a “feckless cunt.” “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night,” Bee wrote. “It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it.” I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it. — Samantha Bee (@iamsambee) May 31, 2018 Bee’s vile remark toward Ivanka Trump came one day after Roseanne Barr’s show was canceled by ABC after she compared former Obama administration senior advisor Valerie Jarrett to an ape. Disney CEO Bob Iger reportedly called Jarrett to apologize to her for Barr’s comment. As of now, Time Warner president Jeff Bewkes has not followed in Bob Iger’s footsteps. Bee’s swipe at Ivanka Trump led to Full Frontal advertiser Autotrader to pull its ad buys from the weekly TBS show. “Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal,” read a message from the Autotrader official Twitter account. “he comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company.” “As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee,” the company’s tweet concluded. Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal. The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company. As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee. — Autotrader (@AutoTrader_com) May 31, 2018 White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders demanded a response on Thursday from Time Warner and TBS on behalf of President Donald Trump. “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network,” Sanders said of Bee in a statement to reporters. “The language used by Samantha Bee last night is vile and vicious. The collective silence by the left and its media allies is appalling.” A PR representative for Turner Broadcasting did not return phone and email messages from Breitbart News. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson
Serena Williams has always played like a superhuman. Now she looks like one, too. During her first-round match at Roland Garros in Paris on Tuesday — in which she beat Kristyna Pliskova in two sets — the American tennis champ donned a stark, full-body catsuit, leading many social media users to suggest that the athletic marvel really belongs in a Marvel comic book. “The catsuit is back and it’s having my queen looking like a superhero!,” NBA vet Jason Collins writes on Twitter. The Nike sportswear was clearly meant to turn heads. This year’s Roland Garros tournament marks Williams’ return to Grand Slam tennis after giving birth to her daughter last year. Many fans are watching to see if the former world No. 1 can reclaim her former glory. So she donned an outfit about as different from her opponent’s traditional patterned tennis skirt as you can get — an all-black, stretchy body suit with a red waistband. Still, Williams, 36, struggled with movement throughout much of the match. Whether that’s due to her “Watch me!” wardrobe or her recent return to the tour after maternity leave is up in the air. She later said to Sports Illustrated editor Jon Wertheim, “All the moms out there that had a tough pregnancy and have to come back and try to be fierce, in [the] middle of everything. That’s what this represents. You can’t beat a catsuit, right?” Williams — and hopefully her super-suit — will be back Thursday to play against Australian Ashleigh Barty.
Academy Award-nominated actress Minnie Driver said Thursday that Ivanka Trump does not possess the intelligence or personality to be described as a “c*nt,” the profane term used by comedian Samantha Bee. “That was the wrong word for Samantha Bee to have used,” Driver wrote on Twitter. “But mostly because ( to paraphrase the French ) Ivanka has neither the warmth nor the depth.” That was the wrong word for Samantha Bee to have used . But mostly because ( to paraphrase the French ) Ivanka has neither the warmth nor the depth. — Minnie Driver (@driverminnie) May 31, 2018 Driver joins fellow actress Sally Field, who tweeted Thursday that Ivanka was beneath the profane term. “I like Samantha Bee a lot, but she is flat wrong to call Ivanka a c*nt,” Field said, adding, “cunts are powerful, beautiful, nurturing and honest,” said Field. I like Samantha Bee a lot, but she is flat wrong to call Ivanka a cunt. Cunts are powerful, beautiful, nurturing and honest. — Sally Field (@sally_field) May 31, 2018 The TBS late-night host branded Ivanka Trump a “feckless c*nt” after she tweeted a photograph of herself holding one of her sons. The remark sparked a massive outcry from conservatives — still seething from ABC canceling Roseanne — and accusations of a double standard from corporate media. Soon after Autotrader announced it would suspend advertising on the program Full Frontal, Bee issued an apology. “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it,” she said. Shortly after, TBS issued a separate statement, admitting comedian’s foul-mouthed attack “should not have been aired.” “Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night. Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” Neither Turner nor its parent company Time Warner have indicated that CEO Jeff Bewkes will follow the lead of Disney CEO Bob Iger, who personally called Valerie Jarrett to apologize for a tweet from Roseanne Barr, who then worked for Disney subsidiary ABC.
If you live in a four-bedroom property close to the beach, then you just might have the dream American home, according to new research. A study of 2,000 Americans asked people to conceptualize their dream home setup and then analyzed the results to identify the average person’s dream home. Results uncovered four bedrooms, three bathrooms, an open kitchen, and hardwood floors as the defining factors of what people envisioned as the perfect home for them. The “dream home” has an abundance of wood and glass, a two-car garage and beach-house décor, according to the study conducted by Homes.com in conjunction with OnePoll. A backyard deck was also highly desired, while a walk-in closet and plenty of storage emerged in the majority of Americans’ perfect home concepts. And their dream home ambiance includes that all-important peace and quiet. When asked the ideal proximity to the closest home, Americans wanted their neighbors to be “down the street.” Other items Americans rank among the top 25 features of the dream American home included a pool, lots of windows, a fireplace, and a balcony with a view. In addition, stainless-steel appliances, a gourmet kitchen, and smart-home technology were also clearly important for many Americans. Americans are dreaming big when it comes to what they want their dream home to look like. In fact, the average size of a dream home is 2,756 square feet. When it comes to price, the average person polled estimated their dream home to command a price tag of $879,000. A spokesperson for Homes.com said: “There were little surprises around the features folks are looking for in their dream home, but there’s probably a disconnect on how much that home may cost, especially if homebuyers are looking for a beach view. The good news is it’s simple to filter homes with ‘nice to have’ and ‘must have’ criteria on Homes.com, so homebuyers can more easily find something close to their dream home at a price they can afford.” Unfortunately, it turns out that the reality of owning our dream home may be a long way away. Seventy-four percent of people are not currently living in their dream home. Sadly, four in 10 of those polled feel they will never actually get around to buying their dream home. But that doesn’t stop the eight in 10 Americans who say they regularly think about what they would want in their dream home. This constant daydreaming allows Americans to think about some truly over-the-top features, with millennials looking for a penthouse with a rooftop deck and an elevator, in comparison to older generations who have more realistic expectations of their ideal home, with a fireplace near the top of their list. One of the other stand-out differences among the age groups is where they see their ideal home being located. For millennials, the dream is a suburban oasis, while those 55 and older dream of a beach home to call their own. Millennials are looking for the ideal home in places like Miami, Malibu, San Diego, Palm Springs, Phoenix and Austin — cities that combine affordable suburbia with city life. But it’s not just location that differs among the generations. Millennials are dreaming big — literally. The average millennial envisions a dream home between 4,000 and 5,000 square feet. That’s compared to the more modest 1,500 to 2,000 square feet desired by baby boomers. Beyond how large or small the ideal home is, preferences vary between the generations when it comes to the key features in an ideal home. For millennials, the bedroom is one of the most important factors when it comes to the dream home. However, for those over 55, the kitchen is at the top of their priority list. Millennials are really thinking outside the proverbial four walls when it comes to their dream home. The average millennial is looking for a home that has a library, a hidden room, a movie theater, a wine cellar, and a playroom for children. On the other hand, baby boomers are a little more traditional when it comes to dreaming up what their ideal home looks like, with a dream home that has a walk-in closet, lots of storage space, and lots of windows. But no matter their age, for some people there’s literally no place on Earth that’s perfect for them — 19 of the 2,000 polled said their ideal home would be on another planet. The spokesperson for Homes.com added: “The newly reimagined Homes.com doesn’t feature any off-world properties, but there are some smarter, industry-leading features that will help people search, find and share their home wish list with friends and family. Whether they’re millennials looking for their dream digs, or a baby boomer looking for a downsizing dream, Homes.com is there to help!“ America’s dream house has: 4 bedrooms 3 bathrooms Open kitchen Backyard deck Hardwood floors Lots of wood and glass Walk-in-closet Fireplace Lots of storage 2 garage spaces Close to the beach No close neighbors Beach house style Estimated cost: $879,000 Top 25 most-desired features in a dream home:
Oakland (United States) (AFP) – Stephen Curry scored 29 points and Kevin Durant added 26 to power defending champion Golden State over the Cleveland Cavaliers 124-114 in overtime on Thursday in the NBA Finals opener. LeBron James scored a playoff career-high 51 points in a losing cause as the Warriors took a 1-0 lead in the best-of-seven championship series, which continues Sunday in Oakland. Golden State’s Klay Thompson added 24 points and Draymond Green contributed 13 points, 11 rebounds, nine assists, five steals and three blocked shots. Green taunted Cleveland’s Tristan Thompson to spark a shoving incident in the final seconds of overtime that figures to carry over in the emotional fourth consecutive finals between the Cavaliers and Warriors. Golden State won the 2015 and 2017 crowns. The Cavs took the 2016 title. Four-time NBA Most Valuable Player James scored seven points in a 10-2 run that gave Cleveland a 104-102 lead with 50.8 seconds remaining — a layup, dunk and 3-point play by James plus a Love 3-pointer. Durant was whistled for a charging call but it was overturned on video review into a blocking foul on James and Durant equalized with two free throws at 104-104. James answered inside but Curry drove for a layup, got fouled by Love and sank the free throw for a 107-106 Golden State lead with 23.5 seconds in regulation time. George Hill was fouled and made 1-of-2 free throws with 4.7 seconds remaining but missed the second and the game went to overtime. Golden State dominated the extra five minutes, starting it with a 9-0 run. Klay Thompson hit two 3-pointers and Durant another to seal Cleveland’s fate. In the final seconds, Green waved bye to Tristan Thompson after a foul and had the ball shoved in his face as players gathered to keep the two apart as Thompson was ejected and tempers were tested. The Warriors seek their third title in four seasons and sixth overall. James is playing in his eighth consecutive finals and ninth overall seeking his fourth career title and the second for the Cavs. Physical intensity was on display from the start, with Cleveland’s J.R. Smith slipping and falling into Klay Thompson, forcing the Warriors guard to the locker room for a spell in the first quarter with a bruised left leg. James drove to the hoop in the second quarter only to have Green deliver a left hand to the face that sent James to the floor clutching his face. Green was whistled for a technical foul. The Warriors closed the first half on a 16-5 run and began the third quarter with a 10-3 spurt for a 66-59 edge. But James scored seven consecutive points, capping the run with a 3-pointer, to pull the Cavs level at 68-68 with 5:27 remaining in the third, James hitting 11 of his first 13 shots. Golden State answered moments later with a 14-4 run, Curry and Thompson sinking 3-pointers and Durant’s six points including a slam dunk to cap the spurt as the Warriors led 84-78 entering the fourth quarter. Curry sank a 38-foot running 3-pointer at the half-time buzzer to lift the Warriors level at 56-56 after Cleveland had led by as much as 49-40 in the second quarter. James had 24 points in the first half while Curry led the Warriors with 18.
A federal judge has rejected UC Berkeley’s bid to dismiss a lawsuit based on the University’s discriminatory policy against conservative speakers. The court battle highlights the growing trend among many universities, as well as other leftist institutions and social media outlets, to stifle those who dissent from leftist orthodoxy. America is dealing with the signature legacy of the eight years coinciding with the Obama presidency, namely, the attempted removal of First Amendment protections from conservatives. It could be seen in President Obama’s influencing of the Federal Communications Commission to attempt to place monitors in news rooms, and his transfer of control of the internet to an international body not devoted to free speech. It could be observed in his rather embarrassing attacks on news outlets that disagree with his policies. Attorney General Loretta Lynch considered criminally prosecuting those who merely disagreed with Obama’s climate change views. Senator Schumer (D-NY) introduced legislation which specifically and openly sought to limit the First Amendment regarding paid political speech. The Internal Revenue Service attacked conservative organizations. Leftist state attorneys general engaged in harassing legal tactics against dissidents. Social media initiated various methods to silence conservative users. And, of course, universities adopted a variety of tactics to eliminate non-leftist influence within both the faculty and the student body. Differences of opinion, no matter how harsh, are not the problem. Spirited political debate is healthy. What is truly concerning is the goal of far too many on the left to criminalize the right for having a different opinion, and the lock-step acquiescence of some institutions to that attempt. Perhaps the most important analysis of the attempt to silence non-leftist speech comes not from a conservative, but from a journalist closely associated with liberal politics. Kirsten Powers served in the Clinton Administration and was a fixture in Democrat politics in New York. She provides the most bluntly honest and hard-hitting analyses of this problem: “This intolerance,” she writes, “is not a passive matter of opinion. It’s an aggressive, illiberal impulse to silence people. This conduct has become an existential threat to those who hold orthodox religious beliefs… increasingly I hear from people across the political spectrum who are fearful not only of expressing their views, but also as to where all of this is heading. I’ve followed this trend closely as a columnist with growing concern. It’s become clear that the attempts—too often successful—to silence dissent from the liberal worldview isn’t isolated outbursts. They are part of a bigger story.” How extreme is this threat getting? Consider California State Senator Pan’s proposed legislation, which reads: “This bill would require any person who operates a social media, as defined, Internet Web site with a physical presence in California to […] prominently display a link on the site to a disclosure informing users how the site determines what content to display to the user, the order in which content is displayed, and the format in which content is displayed, and to inform users of the site’s strategic plan to mitigate the spread of false information, among other things. With respect to a social media Internet Web site that utilizes factcheckers to verify the accuracy of news stories, the bill would require the disclosure to state what policies and practices the factcheckers use to determine whether news stories are accurate and what the site does with the content that the factcheckers determine is not accurate.” A key problem with Pan’s proposal, among others, is that many of the “fact checking” organizations which are on the list to consult are politically biased, as a number of studies, including those by George Mason University have revealed. The First Amendment, once the bedrock foundation of American political thought, has become endangered as never before in U.S. history. Frank Vernuccio serves as editor-in-chief of the New York Analysis of Policy and Government.
JOINT BASE PEARL HARBOR-HICKAM, Hawaii – Defense Secretary Jim Mattis announced Wednesday that he is renaming U.S. Pacific Command to U.S. Indo-Pacific Command, in recognition of the “increasing connectivity” between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. “Over many decades, this command has repeatedly adapted to changing circumstance and today carries that legacy forward as America focuses West,” Mattis said at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam. Mattis made the announcement at a ceremony marking a change of command at Pacific Command from PACOM Commander Adm. Harry Harris to new Indo-Pacom Commander Adm. Philip Davidson. The name change reflects the Trump administration’s focus on the Asia Pacific as a priority theater, and concern with China’s increasing deployment of weapons to disputed territories in the South China Sea. While the Obama administration announced an Asia “pivot” or “rebalance,” the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan ultimately took precedence over that plan throughout the president’s tenure. Trump Pentagon officials say, instead of saying the U.S. is going back to anything, it is stating what the reality is. “Having grown up in Washington state, one of five with a Pacific Ocean coastline, and looking out over the vast expanse of ocean during yesterday’s flight, I was reminded that the United States is today and has been for two centuries a Pacific nation,” Mattis said at the ceremony. “America’s national defense strategy, a roadmap for America’s military, acknowledges this reality, taking a clear-eyed look at the world as it is, not how we would wish it to be,” he said. The Trump administration’s National Security Strategy named China a strategic competitor, and the Pentagon’s National Defense Strategy has focused on competition with China and Russia. Mattis did not mention China, but referenced its One Belt One Road initiative, which lends developing nations large sums of money to build infrastructure China could potentially seize if the often strict loan repayment terms are not met. “America’s vision is shared by most nations in the region,” Mattis said. “A region open to investment and free, fair, and reciprocal trade not bound by any nation’s predatory economics or threat of coercion, for the Indo-Pac has many belts and many roads,” he said. Mattis said the National Defense Strategy, is not a “strategy of confrontation,” however. “Rather, it is a balance of idealism, pragmatism, and cooperation.” “We will continue to seek opportunities for cooperation and open dialogue with our competitors when it aligns with our international interests and the interests of allies, partners and stability – and always seeking peace from a position of strength,” he said. Harris, who is nominated to become the next U.S. Ambassador to South Korea, said at the ceremony that North Korea was the most “imminent threat,” but China was the biggest “long-term” challenge. “Great power competition is back,” he said. The name change will almost certainly roil China, but U.S. officials downplay that it is directed at China and say it is a reflection of the reality that the U.S. is a Pacific nation with five states that border the Pacific Ocean and a number of U.S. allies in the Asia Pacific.
After Page Six exclusively revealed that 76ers star Ben Simmons is dating Kendall Jenner — the 6-foot-10 Rookie of the Year candidate is being accused of striking up the romance with the supermodel before he broke up with his ex, singer Tinashe. A source told Page Six that Simmons has been seeing Jenner “for a few weeks.” They were spotted together in New York last week and in LA on Tuesday. But after our report, Tinashe’s teen brother, Kudzai Kachingwe, went ballistic on Simmons on Twitter, alleging that the NBA star only broke up with Tinashe on Sunday, and that he was “cheating” on her. “Never met you before in my life. Days after u break my sis heart u do this,” Kachingwe posted. He added: “no f - - king excuse for cheating, be a man and figure it out.” Then again, some reports have had another timeline — MTO News said on May 25 that Simmons and Tinashe parted ways because Tinashe was “doing Kardashian s - - t.” A source told the site of Tinashe, “She is way too public with everything. They just started dating and this girl is calling up paparazzi.” see also Kendall Jenner is dating NBA star Ben Simmons The pair was spotted this week on a lunch date... Either way, Kachingwe also addressed the Kardashian comparison on Twitter on Wednesday, posting: “people all lied on her talking fake news about my sis doing kardashian s - - t u cheat on her w a Jenner.” On Monday, Simmons landed at LAX, and was seen on a lavish lunch date Tuesday with Jenner, we reported. TMZ spotted Simmons out Tuesday night at the Waldorf Astoria Beverly Hills with a woman covering her face with a hoodie. Reps have not gotten back to us. Simmons started dating Tinashe in March. Her brother says he’s trying to “expose” what happened, but posted, “Sorry for blowing up y’all twitter everyone. It was actually the only way to defend my sister.” For her part, Tinashe simply posted a sexy photo captioned, “I set the bar, I’m the f - - kin bar.” Jenner is allegedly rebounding from another NBA star, Blake Griffin.
A bill that would make Missouri the 28th right-to-work state now awaits Gov. Eric Greitens’ signature. The Republican-led Missouri House on Thursday cleared SB 19, a measure to prevent forced unionism previously passed by the state Senate. Greitens, a Republican who took office last month, pledged to sign it. His predecessor, Democrat Jay Nixon, vetoed a similar bill in 2015. The House’s move received praise from the GOP-led Senate. “Right-to-work gives Missouri the ability to encourage other businesses to move to the state,” said Senate Majority Leader Ron Richard, R-Joplin. “We aren’t just fighting for more jobs. We are fighting just to be on the list of consideration. Right-to-work, combined with our other economic development measures we plan to pass this session, will help make Missouri more attractive to investments. I am confident after the long hours working on the legislation the governor will sign it.” RELATED: Missouri poised to pass right-to-work legislation; New Hampshire up next Kentucky enacted a similar measure in January. Indiana, Michigan, West Virginia and Wisconsin have also passed right-to-work laws in the past five years. Seven of the eight states that border Missouri — Illinois is the lone holdout — have right-to-work laws, and many lawmakers and economists said that put the Show-Me State at a disadvantage in luring business and industry. Right-to-work laws prevent workers from being forced to join a union or pay union dues as a condition of employment. It’s been a decade-long battle in Missouri, where the Republican majority in the legislature debated the issue but never had the votes required to override the veto of Nixon. Dan Mehan, president and CEO of the Missouri Chamber of Business and Industry, called right-to-work an “economic development tool” for Missouri. “It is exciting to finally be this close to making it law in Missouri,” Mehan said in a statement. “We applaud lawmakers for their commitment to protecting Missouri jobs and Missouri families. It’s a fact, right-to-work laws grow jobs and increase opportunities and economic growth.” New Hampshire could also soon become a right-to-work state. A bill has passed the state Senate and has the support of the governor, but still awaits passage in the state House.
Grieving the tragic death of his 19-year-old son, a Pennsylvania father stepped up to accompany the young man’s girlfriend to her senior prom. May 19, a few days after the one-month anniversary of Carter Brown's death, was also the night of the senior prom at James Buchanan High School in Mercersburg. Carter’s father, Robert Brown, escorted Kaylee Suders to the big dance knowing that his son would have wanted his girlfriend of one year to attend, Fox 8 reports. UTAH TEEN SHAMED OVER 'RACIST' PROM DRESS WINS PRAISE IN CHINA “My son was a sweet, caring kid, and Kaylee is very sweet too, and she is a part of our family,” Robert told the Centre Daily Times. “When the passing topic of prom came up, I kept thinking my son would want her to go. That prompted me to get the ball rolling.” Though a devastated Suders initially did not want to attend the prom, she agreed to attend with her boyfriend's dad. “I was kind of surprised before he asked me, and it was really, really heartwarming,” the high schooler told the Daily Times. “I didn’t have to think about it. I definitely said 'yes.' It was so great of him to ask me." That evening, the Brown and Suders families gathered for a classic prom photo shoot before heading out in Carter’s “beloved” sports car, an Audi TT, Fox 8 reports. Before the big dance, Suders and Robert went out to dinner at T.G.I. Friday's — where the young couple had their first date. MAINE HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS BLOCK STREET FOR PROM PHOTO AS COPS GET IN ON THE FUN At the big dance, Suders said “everyone just thought it was amazing" that Robert accompanied her. "I had fun at prom, I am so grateful that Rob asked me to go," Suders told Fox News. "I loved dressing up and taking pictures and dancing. I know it would have made Carter happy that I still went, and I know he’s smiling ear to ear at the fact I went with his dad," she added. “Add this to the list of reasons why I love my husband... Since Carter couldn’t escort Kaylee to her prom, Robert stepped in. Kaylee, I know Rob wasn’t your first choice for a date, but he will forever be mine,” Carter’s mom and Robert’s wife, Kelly Brown, wrote on Facebook. "It takes a special kind of person to step up, especially when they're hurting and going through stuff too,” Suders’ mom, Christina Nicholas, said of Robert’s kindness. “It's nice he took the initiative to ask her and have a good time.” Suders and Carter had been dating about a year but had been best friends for about three years, Public Opinion reports. Carter was driving home from Indiana State University on April 15 when the Honda Civic he was driving veered into the opposite lane and was struck head on. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS It turns out the Brown family had weathered even more tragedy recently, Public Opinion reported. Their eldest son, Christopher, died last September at the age of 23. The father’s effort to take Suders to the prom also “gave them something to look forward to.” "We lost Chris in September. Seven months apart, it's an awful lot," Kelly said. "This gave us something to be excited about. So that was also kinda a gift to have something fun to look forward to. It was big deal for all of us." “Life will have all kinds of curve balls that you can’t control," Robert said. "You have to have strength and courage to move forward.”
Another alumni from Graydon Carter’s Vanity Fair has landed. Jim Kelly, a contributing editor at VF for the past seven years and earlier the top editor at Time magazine, is joining Aevitas Creative Management, the literary agency formed by Todd Shuster and David Kuhn in 2016. He said he’ll cast a wide net in his new career as a literary agent. “My tenure at Time and Vanity Fair allowed me to be curious about everything, but I guess I lean toward biography and history,” Kelly said. “I also have a passion for crime, both real and imagined, which I guess is a consequence of growing up with a NYPD officer as my dad.” Kelly bumped into Carter when they both started at Time within a week of one another in 1978 — and stayed friends as they advanced their publishing careers. Kelly capped his nearly 30-year career at Time as its top editor, then spent three more years as an editor at large. Kelly’s VF contributing editor contract expired at the end of May, and he starts his new job on June 1.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. It breaks my heart to say this, but the entire country is dead wrong about poor Michael Rotondo, the 30-year-old slacker living in his parents' basement. You've all been arrogantly cruel; those of you on the left who've mocked poor Rotondo for being a conservative in a bad '80s burgundy shirt, and those on the right who treated the Syracuse pajama boy as if he were the secret son of Bernie Sanders. And someday, when Rotondo leads a political movement that sweeps the nation, and ends the partisan bickering, and unites his generation, you'll tear out your hair. You'll weep piteous tears. Your lips will tremble as you beg mercy from the Rotondotarians. But by then it'll be too late. Don't say I didn't warn you. As everyone knows by now, Michael Rotondo was happy living at home. He had no plans to leave. His parents asked him to go and he refused. Finally, a court of law evicted him and threw poor Rotondo to the curb. You ever hear the expression, "The law is an ass?" Well, it is in this case. A big fat one. CNN's Brooke Baldwin began the mocking, with those ostentatiously neutral facial expressions of hers, when everybody knew she was laughing on the inside. And then those farther to the left jumped on him, and Fox News and those on the right put the boots to him, too. BALDWIN: Why don't you just move out of your parents' house like tomorrow? ROTONDO: I don't have the means to do that tomorrow. BALDWIN: OK. Do you have a job? ROTONDO: No. BALDWIN: Are you trying to get a job? In his CNN interview, Rotondo said he didn't want to be considered a millennial, since he said millennials are liberals. He identified as a conservative. This gave many in the liberal media license to peel his skin and squeeze metaphorical lemons on his back. They were merciless. If only he weren't a conservative slacker in a bad burgundy shirt -- but rather some angry homeless heroin addict obliterating your local Starbucks restroom just when you need it -- they would have been compassionate. Meanwhile, conservative pundits viewed him as a loser and a threat to the brand, and they didn't want him in their club. So they ripped him for living off his parents and not making his own way. They all got their pound of flesh from Rotondo. And before you, too, sink your teeth in for another bite, why not first consider his alleged sins? He was happy in the basement, watching TV, probably playing video games, perhaps "Call of Duty: WWII Nazi Zombies," and otherwise doing nothing, except maybe binge-watching "Game of Thrones" for the fourth time. He bothered no one, except perhaps his parents, but they raised him to be what he was. They spent 30 years training him for this. One of the few to stand up for poor Rotondo was the esteemed American moral philosopher and ethicist John Feitelberg, aka "Feits" at Barstool Sports. "This guy is my (expletive deleted) hero. He is my new civil rights leader" said Feits. "... The only people who don't want to live at home are young people, and young people are dumb." He added that living at home is "the absolute (expletive deleted) best. ... You can watch on-demand movies for free. They cook your meals, they do your laundry, they (expletive deleted) drive you home from when you get drunk at dinner. Having a parent who lets you live at home is the best." Feits ended by saying that all young people should fight for their civil rights, demanding free movies and drives home when they're drunk. The anti-Rotondotarians, who are very much like the establishmentarians in Washington, boil it all down to this: Rotondo, hapless slacker, is the kind of creature who'll end up eating all his father's salted cashews and drinking his father's 18-year-old Scotch, and contribute zilch to the household, not even washing the car or scooping up after the dog. The easy thing to do is cast Rotondo as just another confused Bernie Bro who thinks he can live for free, as if born on government's Big Rock Candy Mountain, where the hens lay soft-boiled eggs, and the farmer's trees are full of fruit and the barns are full of hay. But that wouldn't be quite accurate. Because it's not Rotondo and his generation that have been living large off the parents. It's the other way around. Who has been electing politicians who, year after year, keep piling up the national debt, now in the untold trillions of dollars? Republicans and Democrats have done it and millennials -- conservative or liberal -- have had nothing to do with it. It's the parents who have been piling debt upon the young, electing politicians who've spent and spent, refusing to cut, spending their children's birthright to get re-elected again and again, until the debt becomes so monstrous that it will crush the young, liberal or conservative, and grind them into dust. Sooner or later they'll wise up, and realize what's been done to them, and someone will lead them and convert the old into crackers to feed the people. Who knows? That leader could be Michael Rotondo, reviled as a slacker by older generations who taught him well.
As of press time the Dow is up over 1,200 points from where it was just two weeks ago, a monstrous rally that isn't getting a lot of play, probably because it had been a 1,200 point drop in the two weeks prior to that. So yes, the stock market has been directionless over a month, but quite volatile in between, and this may continue for some time as markets wrestle with bond yields and questions about economic growth. In the meantime, capex, alternatives, emerging markets, oil, Japan, the Fed, and all our other favorite topics need a little attention, and attention we shall give them, in this week's visit to the Dividend Café ... Weekly redux The "will they, won't they" issue with North Korea did not move markets. The Israel/Gaza/Jerusalem embassy events did not move markets. Michael Cohen, Stormy Daniels, James Comey, and Robert Mueller did not move markets. We are wrapping up a 20%+ year-over-year earnings growth quarter, digesting a 10-year bond yield sitting just over 3% (what we would call "normalization"), and waiting to see what the real business investment ramifications of all this will be in the quarter(s) ahead (lots of focus on that subject this week). So call it a weekly redux, and call it a yearly redux, but for investors, capex will trump Stormy Daniels for some time to come. The Japanese thesis Q1 GDP in Japan shrunk by 0.6%, the first economic contraction in Japan in eight quarters. The source of the weakness was, as expected, household consumption. Readers and clients should note that this economic contraction coincides with the Nikkei hitting its highest point in over 20 years. In other words, the constant truth that GDP growth and stock market performance do not correlate is being reiterated in spades. Stock prices reflect profits, and Japan is experiencing a renaissance in corporate profits and profit margins. I expect a significant divergence between profits and GDP growth. As valuation levels are actually at their lowest since 2009, there exists a potential for substantive movement up in stock prices even as their economy continues to work through its demographic-driven malaise. Eye-Candy for Contrarians This chart grabbed me this week. It reflects the S&P 500 in grey, and the green line reflects an index of optimism of retail brokerage customers at a large online outfit. What you see is stock market optimism in line with the stock market during the January run. Click here to view the chart. Alternatively, quite the contrary The golden era of hedge funds in a lot of ways was 2000-2002, when the S&P was down over 40%, and the Nasdaq down 80%, but many hedge funds were even, or often up in that period. So that led to what? Well, massive flows into hedge funds, of course (from 2003 to 2007). During that period, the stock market increased 100%, and many hedge funds lagged. The next period - the financial crisis, and the immediate aftermath of the crisis - is a little harder to pin down. A few hedge funds did even worse than the market (leveraged bundles of psychopathic recklessness), and many blew the market away (famed shorts of subprime, primarily). Broadly, though, most hedge funds were down in this period, but not as much as the market. Then, you have the real high octane bull market of 2012-2017. In this period hedge funds generated positive returns but much less than that of the market itself, and underwent a very interesting scrutiny from the media around performance and from investors around fees. Fund flows were decidedly negative. And now here we are. We are contrarians across all asset classes because ours is a conviction about behavioral realities. Will the next five years bode worse for hedge funds, or better? Has the cycle of hedge funds most useful years being followed by great inflows been set up for the inverse - great outflows followed by very useful years? That is what we believe is consistent with the testimony of both history, and human nature. Emerging indexing an emerging problem So 30%+ of the emerging markets major index is now China-based, with over 10% in South Korea, and 10% in Taiwan. So, with just three countries, perhaps three of the biggest exporters in the world, you have 55% of the index covered - essentially a major play on exporting from a few countries all a rock throw from each other to the developed world. In short, it is becoming less and less of a solid play on actual emerging markets, to buy the emerging markets index. Click here to view the chart. What's the Fed going to do? The Fed has raised rates twice this year already. No one I am aware of doubts they will raise one more time (meaning, at least one more time). The question is whether or not a fourth increase will take place (likely in December). The fed funds futures market is now pricing in a 54% chance of a fourth rate hike, the first time all year it will have gone over 50%. I believe that accurately captures the lay of the land - at this point, and there is a long way to go, it is a coin flip. Sell in May or are Stupid Cliches Here to Stay? The whole adage "sell in May and go away" deserves to be checked against empirical evidence. For indeed, one would think something that has become so common to say would have more than just a rhyme behind it, right? The fact of the matter is that the six months of May through October have averaged a +3.3% return for the last 20 years (1), lower than the average November through April return, but vital and positive nonetheless. A rule of thumb at the Bahnsen Group - poetry makes for bad investment policy. Two lessons in west Texas The amount producers are being paid for oil in the Permian Basin right now is dramatically less than the global cost of oil, and is having a profound impact on the energy sector. Essentially, producers are receiving a huge discount in the Permian Basin because the cost of transporting oil to their customers has gone through the roof, as pipelines are simply full. Put differently, trucks cost too much money to transport oil on, yet that is the only option lacking more pipeline capacity. Producers have to eat that differential. SO what are the two lessons? Click here to view the chart. First, we could easily see this leading to a decrease in production, driving oil prices even higher. That discount comes off of profits which limits their ability to ramp up production to meet demand. And second, this is a painful, painful reminder of how depleted our energy infrastructure is in this country, and how vital it is that more pipelines be built to handle the volumes of our thriving oil and gas industry. A new era in ripping off investors This week marked the beginning of the end for certain non-fiduciary brokers and the way they buy bonds on behalf of their clients. About 50 years too late if you ask us, the MSRB has finally demanded that investors be shown on their written confirms what the "mark-up" was (a hidden commission, essentially) that their broker received. While it may seem surreal, an investor previously paying $108 for a $106 bond was perfectly legal, and systemically common. It is still legal, but now that $2 the broker is keeping for himself must be disclosed (at least on the written confirmation). These transactional mark-ups are estimated to cost 1-2% per bond transaction for investors, multiples of what actual managed accounts and professional funds cost. We do believe in active management for municipal bonds, largely because I do not believe the value-added in credit analysis, yield curve management, and access to supply is up for debate. But add transparency and cost to the mix as well. And investors would be wise to understand this lesson with their bond portfolios, and every other aspect of their financial services: Cost cannot be merely defined by just the costs you see, but also by the ones you don't. Why does "capex" matter? We talk so much about "capex" (capital expenditures), that it probably behooves us to re-visit the subject periodically to confirm why it matters. This week's Market Epicurean featured my best thoughts on the topic ... Chart of the Week Our thesis for the next leg of this bull market centers around capital expenditures driving a new round of productivity, innovation, and growth. Tax reform was and is a major argument for this business investment taking place. And now we see this: Click here to view the chart. Quote of the Week “The investors chief problem, and even his worst enemy, is likely to be himself.” -- Benjamin Graham * * * I hope you enjoy these "chart heavy" trips into the Dividend Café. I enjoy weeks that are reasonably drama-free in the markets because I prefer to use this weekly commentary to discuss lasting stuff that matters - not flavor of the day noise. Tell us what matters to you, and we will address it. To that end, we work. David L. Bahnsen writes at the Dividend Café.
Grand Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran, released a statement on Wednesday calling for the United Nations to “seriously” pursue seven areas of alleged human rights violations by the United States, including its lack of more stringent gun control laws. Top figures in the Democratic Party — including Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Minority Nancy Pelosi — have been pushing for the passage of new gun control measures, particularly since February’s Parkland school shooting. “Another case which the U.N. should definitely pursue is the freedom of selling guns in the U.S. with which so many crimes are being committed,” Khamenei’s statement read. “You hear and witness that every day in schools, in universities, in markets, and on the street that a teenager, a man, or a woman fires a volley of bullets at some people because of some problem they have — they are extremely angry, or they are mad and have some personal problems,” the Islamic leader continued. “They kill eight, ten, twenty — more or less — people, and families mourn the loss of their dear ones.” TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Khamenei contended that the violence could be stopped with government action, but gun manufacturers are thwarting changes in the law. “Why do they not stop this? The reason is that gun companies prevent this, and the U.S. administrations are under the influence of these companies,” Khamenei said. “This is a very important issue which should be addressed and pursued by the U.N.” Following Parkland, Democrat leaders — like Schumer, Pelosi and Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California — called for further gun control measures, including the reimposition of the 1994 Assault Weapons Ban, which expired in 2004. They have also sought a universal background check. Currently, anyone who purchases a firearm from a gun dealer must undergo a background check, which is designed to restrict anyone with a disqualifying criminal record from buying a gun. The background check system does not include private individuals selling or gifting their guns to others. Last week, Feinstein tweeted, “Gun violence is a uniquely American epidemic & the number of students affected continues to grow.” Gun violence is a uniquely American epidemic & the number of students affected continues to grow. We can’t sit idly by as our children are being killed by gun violence. The time for an assault weapons ban, universal background checks,“red-flag” laws & a ban on bump stocks is NOW! — Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) May 21, 2018 Regarding the prevalence of privately owned weapons in the U.S. — which was so lamented by the Ayatollah — Daily Wire Editor-in-Chief Ben Shapiro tweeted a chart last fall showing that the murder rate has been trending down for decades in the U.S., despite gun ownership increasing significantly. Notably, the rate remained low and then decreased further after the assault weapons ban, which was signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1994, expired in 2004. Here is a chart of American gun ownership and American murder rate. Please explain how more guns inevitably means more murder. pic.twitter.com/TVOJZe2BTi — Ben Shapiro (@benshapiro) October 3, 2017 “Please explain how more guns inevitably means more murder,” Shapiro wrote. RELATED: California Senate Goes on Offensive, OKs Raising Gun-Buying Age, Monthly ‘Limit’ In March, President Donald Trump signed the STOP School Violence Act into law. It is aimed at strengthening school security through grant money for training and the acquisition of other resources such as metal detectors and fencing. Parkland school shooting survivor Kyle Kashuv supported the legislation. Do you think more gun control measures would reduce school shootings? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Trump’s administration also submitted a new regulation banning bump stocks, which effectively turn semiautomatic weapons into fully automatic. Among the other alleged U.S. human rights abuses Khamenei identified are the detention of terrorists at Guantanamo Bay, the treatment of prisoners at Abu Ghraib during the administration of former President George W. Bush, the ill-treatment of African-Americans by police, and the U.S.’s support of Saudi Arabia’s military action in Yemen. Last summer, the State Department kept Iran at the top of its list of state sponsors of terrorism, citing its support of Hezbollah and efforts to destabilize Iraq, Syria and Yemen. The Military Times reported in 2015 that the deaths of at least 500 U.S. soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan can be directly linked to Iran. Many of the fatalities were caused by highly lethal bombs called explosively formed penetrators that Iran manufactured and provided to militants. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. A network TV show rolls out with a favorable treatment of a Trump supporter, replete with plot developments that portray middle American values (and foibles) without the ridicule usually heaped upon them by Hollywood. It couldn’t last. But no one figured it would be a suicide. The epitaph for the “Roseanne” TV reboot will read: born 2018, died 2018. Cause of death: the star’s inability to understand one basic fact, and it’s not the one you might think, about watching what you post on Twitter. Liberals can post whatever hateful slime they wish, with few if any career consequences. No, Roseanne’s blind spot was to an even broader truth: the moment you align yourself with conservatives, you enter a world of zero tolerance. If you are a vulgar comic spewing unprintable hate about President Trump and his family, you get a Netflix show. Roseanne Barr’s show gets canceled for one stupid tweet. Make no mistake: the tweet was profoundly stupid. Even within the context of a “joke,” the universal Teflon often attempted in moments like this, it was a tragic unforced error that committed the compounding sin of invoking racist imagery. All together now: What in God’s name was she thinking? The answer is obvious. She wasn’t. No one ever is when they commit blunders like this. Something about social media has removed some people’s usual brain barrier that exists between thinking something and actually posting it. That doesn’t matter in this case now. What’s done is done, and what’s done is horribly unfortunate. I don’t think John Goodman will be missing any car payments, but the rest of the cast no longer stands to benefit from another season (or more) of shows watched by millions, featuring themes that made the show important, an adjective not attached properly to a sitcom since “All in the Family” almost 50 years ago. It was important not just because it affectionately portrayed a Trump supporter, even though that was a rare and precious attribute. It also caringly painted scenes featuring Roseanne’s thoroughly liberal sister and daughter. In its funniest and most honest episode, the tensions between her and a Muslim neighbor family led to a scene featuring Roseanne standing up for her new Islamic acquaintance in the face of racism from a store clerk. As fresh as today’s headlines, the final episodes of the first (and now only) season kicked off with Roseanne’s addiction to painkillers. As real as the struggle faced by countless American families, the scripts then turned to husband Dan’s anguish over how to pay for his wife’s expensive knee surgery as his construction jobs dried up and the credit cards maxed out. Viewers saw their pain, their mutual devotion and their struggle, but the show never forgot to be funny. This is a profound loss. Roseanne’s comic genius made it possible, and her mouthy Twitter politics made the ride even more fun. But the fun had rules. She had to know that as a rare actress willing to show empathy for Trump and his voters, she would face critics waiting gleefully for her to stumble. She gave them exactly what they wanted, and in so doing gave the left an overhand smash in the form of “There you go, that’s how Trump and his voters feel.” So we not only lose a show we could actually watch, we get to spend some time beating away a slander as well. Great day all around. Will another network revive “Roseanne?” No time soon. We are often a very forgiving country, but that forgiveness is not afforded to all. Float monkey imagery in a reference about an African-American woman, and you’re going to be done. For a while. It would be easy to list the constant brutal slurs floated by the Hollywood left against Trump, by entertainers who are still employable, some specifically because of their political and personal venom. None of this matters. It is what it is. Is it unfair? Of course. Is it exemplary of differing bars of outrage for different people? Absolutely. But everyone in any realm of public life should know that this is the way the field is striped. Maybe it will change someday. Until it does, anyone with a brain stem has to know that a tweet like Roseanne’s is going to detonate a reputational atom bomb. I am grateful for the one special season of a show that did not insult the minds and hearts of the voters who gave us the Trump presidency. ABC had supposedly made noises about toning down the politics of the show in the recently approved second season. I don’t believe that would have happened. This cast and those writers believed in what they were doing—not a sop to conservative audiences, but a rare and honest snapshot of character types found in countless households rarely represented in the popular culture. I will always be grateful to Roseanne Barr for bringing this show to life. Now I have to find a way to forgive her for killing it.
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said Thursday that his government will move to reclaim territory currently held by U.S. troops and their allies, whether by negotiations or by force. In an interview with RT, the Russian state’s international broadcaster, Assad said he had begun “now opening doors for negotiations” with the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces, which control much of northeastern Syria after expelling Islamic State militants there. “This is the first option. If not, we’re going to resort to … liberating those areas by force,” Assad said, according to Reuters. “We don’t have any other options, with the Americans or without the Americans.” Assad says U.S. must leave Syria, vows to recover SDF areas https://t.co/Ngu7mZc6Y1 — Reuters Top News (@Reuters) May 31, 2018 Assad is now firmly in control of most of Syria after seven years of a brutal civil war that has killed an estimated 500,000 people, displaced roughly 6 million more inside the country, and forced another 5 million to flee abroad as refugees. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Backed by allies Russia and Iran, Assad has recently crushed rebel and Islamic militant resistance in Damascus, the capital, as well as Aleppo and Homs, Syria’s other principal cities. Some parts of Syria remain outside the government’s control, however, including border areas near Jordan, Israel and Turkey. Nor does Assad’s reach extend into northeastern Syria, where U.S. special operations troops are helping the Kurdish-dominated SDF defeat the remnants of ISIS. Should the US increase its military presence in Syria? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Assad has previously characterized Washington’s intervention in Syria as an illegal occupation of a sovereign country. In his Thursday interview, he reiterated that claim and warned that an extended American presence in Syria would result in an insurgency similar to the one that followed the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003. “They came to Iraq with no legal basis, and look what happened to them,” Assad said. “They have to learn the lesson. Iraq is no exception, and Syria is no exception. People will not accept foreigners in this region anymore.” Without foreign interference we could settle situation in Syria in a year – Assad to RT – WATCH: https://t.co/v6frE4HYSL pic.twitter.com/gQq4JJ6OJV — RT (@RT_com) May 31, 2018 President Donald Trump has struggled to define the military mission and broader strategic goals for Syria since inheriting the U.S. intervention from the Obama administration. In April, Trump said he wanted to withdraw U.S. troops “very soon” but also expressed support for leaving a “strong and lasting footprint.” Trump is under pressure from inside and outside his administration to keep American troops in Syria as a way of maintaining leverage over Assad in post-war negotiations. Additionally, Iran hawks in Trump’s cabinet, along with regional allies Israel and Saudi Arabia, have argued for a long-term U.S. military intervention in Syria to counter Tehran’s influence there. RELATED: Fearing Russia, Poland Offers US $2 Billion for Permanent Military Presence A version of this article appeared on The Daily Caller News Foundation website. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
FBI surveillance of former Trump campaign advisor Carter Page cost him business, income and even his girlfriend. Page tells The Post that during the media barrage he faced in late 2016, he visited his girlfriend at her London flat, where she was “freaking out with the fake news about me.” “Talking with her later in the evening after dinner, she told me that she didn’t want me staying there anymore, and that our relationship was over. “So late that night,” Page continued, “I booked a last-minute hotel reservation as part of this early chapter of the redefinition of my life.” Page believes the FBI’s mole, professor Stefan Halper, was secretly spying on him as part of a “politically motivated” investigation of Team Trump, using fake sympathy to gain his trust — all while fishing for dirt on Page’s ties to Russia, where he’d worked as an energy consultant. “I wouldn’t be surprised if it turned out to be a trap,” Page said. Halper contacted Page in early July 2016, weeks before the FBI claims it first opened an investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia. The timing is significant because if Halper was being used as an informant before a case had been officially opened, it raises the possibility the Trump campaign was spied on for political — not law enforcement — reasons. Page believes that’s exactly what happened, and agrees with the president’s characterization of the scandal as “Spygate.” “It is particularly appropriate given recent developments,” the former campaign aide said. Page said while he was under surveillance, Halper “portrayed himself as someone offering help” to him and the campaign, providing “insights and perspectives” on various foreign policy issues, including relations with Russia. Page recalled the professor “expressed sympathy about what I had been put through with the defamation and smear campaign led by the DNC and the Clinton campaign,” which underwrote the dossier claiming Page conspired with the Kremlin to swing the election for Trump. For instance, Halper penned a July 28, 2017 “Dear Carter” e-mail, assuaging him that new White House controversies may have taken pressure off him. “I must assume this gives you some relief,” Halper wrote, adding that it “would be great to catch up.” Halper signed the note, “Stef.” Since the breakup of his relationship and the decline of his consulting business, Page has gone on the offensive, sharing his side of the story as Washington politicians battle over the role that Halper, a British-American professor, played while informing on top Trump campaign officials starting in the summer of 2016. News outlets recently identified Halper as the paid FBI informant who reached out to several Trump officials during the campaign. Page said the FBI had “no basis” for spying on him or the campaign with individuals like Halper or through electronic means. He described the bureau’s clandestine activities as criminal. Trump again railed against the Dems on Saturday, tweeting that they had planted spies “all over my campaign.” Page echoed the president’s description of the scandal as worse than Watergate, in which then-President Richard Nixon directed spying on the Democratic Party in 1972. “The crimes that have already been committed against President Trump, myself and the entire Trump movement are much worse,” he said. Page says Halper, who has longstanding ties to the CIA and British intelligence, stayed in touch with him over 14 months, even inviting Page to his farm in Great Falls, Va., not far from CIA headquarters. The pair lost touch in September 2017 — the same time the warrant to monitor Page expired. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court had issued a warrant to spy on Page in October 2016, renewing it three times. Page was never criminally charged in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into whether the Trump campaign had anything to do with possible Russian interference in the presidential election. Halper had voiced support for Hillary Clinton. In March 2016, he was quoted as saying, “I believe Clinton would be best for US-UK relations and for relations with the European Union.” Halper reached out to other Trump campaign aides — George Papadopoulos and Sam Clovis — at the behest of the FBI, according to reports. Halper reportedly also informed on Gen. Michael Flynn, who became Trump’s national security advisor for a short period. The information Halper developed reportedly has been provided to Mueller. Halper could not be reached for comment. The FBI routinely uses confidential informants in counterintelligence investigations, and the deployment of such sources in 2016 does not by itself indicate a political attack on Trump. However, law enforcement officials say they doubt the FBI had enough of a legal basis to sic Halper on Page or Papadopoulos. They say then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch would have had to sign off on the move. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes says the FBI never had enough evidence to open a criminal or counterintelligence investigation into the Trump campaign in the first place. Page, a Poughkeepsie native, volunteered for the Trump campaign in January 2016 on a recommendation from the chair of the New York GOP, Ed Cox. Page, whose office used to be located next to Trump Tower, says he always admired the president as a businessman.
Much of American history has been created by entrepreneurial pioneers who kept inventing things. Eli Whitney created the mechanical cotton gin in 1793, which sparked a revolution in the ability to process cotton. His development of interchangeable parts for manufacturing revolutionized productivity in factories. Robert Fulton launched the first commercially successful steamboat that brought passengers from New York City to Albany in 1807. Profitable, timely and efficient, it set a pattern for steamboats that revolutionized travel. Cyrus McCormick patented the mechanical reaper in 1834 and created various innovative business practices that revolutionized agricultural productivity. The Wright Brothers discovered how to fly in 1903. Henry Ford developed the first mass-produced automobile, the Model T, which was introduced in 1908 and designed to put average Americans on wheels. Its price regularly dropped over the years it was on the market, as Ford focused on developing transportation that working people could afford. The list goes on and on. Throughout our history, America has been shaped by entrepreneurial risk takers who were focused on innovation – and on doing and making things better and cheaper. Along the way, government has traditionally helped by not getting in the way of the inventors and entrepreneurs – and making sure they had a fair commercial playing field to try out their ideas. This is one reason why the rise of Bernie Sanders-style socialism is alarming – it is the opposite of historic American inventiveness, creativity and progress. Today this tradition of aggressive entrepreneurs is taking on new life in working to get Americans into space, something I discuss in my new book, “Trump’s America.” While government wants to occasionally send highly trained astronauts on relatively brief missions, the new space entrepreneurs want to send thousands of people into space. They represent the democratization of space – just as the Wright Brothers and Henry Ford represented the democratization of air and land travel. Christian Davenport has written a terrific book on the new space entrepreneurs. “The Space Barons: Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, and the Quest to Colonize the Cosmos” is a great introduction to the exciting new developments that make the space ambitions of President Trump and Vice President Mike Pence increasingly achievable. Davenport focuses on four billionaire entrepreneurs and one remarkable technological innovator. Bezos, the wealthiest man in the world (for now) is putting $1 billion a year of his own money into the steady, methodical, step-by-step development of advanced, powerful, reusable rockets. Bezos has been so successful, he can simply write an annual check and hire engineers to make things. There are no congressional hearings, no federal regulations and no overstaffed planning bureaucracy to slow things down. Blue Origin, the Bezos rocket company, may be one of the great pioneers of the next generation in space. There is a fair chance Bezos will bring enormous savings to getting into space, just as he has brought enormous savings to shopping online through Amazon. Elon Musk is almost Bezos’s opposite – a great showman, a constant marketer, a visionary who sells his vision to anyone who will listen. Musk has sought government subsidies, while also investing his own funds. His firm, SpaceX, has pioneered reusable rockets and is building an impressive record of successful launches at dramatically lower prices. One of the great strengths of the entrepreneurial model is that very different personalities can focus on their individual strengths and achieve things in unique ways. This freedom to think creatively – unhindered by bureaucratic and political constraints – is one of the great advantages that a free market has over a bureaucratic state. Instead of arguing, planning, and regulating for the “one right way,” entrepreneurs can follow their passions, learn the lessons from their mistakes, and invest in reinforcing their successes. Richard Branson, who is British, is an even more flamboyant showman than Musk. His efforts to create the first space tourism system with Virgin Galactic have taken longer, involved more frustrations and cost more money than he originally projected. Branson’s new VSS Unity, a SpaceShipTwo vehicle, has had multiple successful flights. It is carried to 50,000 feet by a large composite aircraft called WhiteKnightTwo and then launches to the very edge of space (about 60 miles up). The spaceship is designed to carry six passengers with two pilots. Branson plans to have a fleet of spaceships carrying passengers to the edge of the atmosphere on a regular basis. The fourth billionaire, Paul Allen, paid for the development of the composite technology Branson uses. He represents yet another path toward space. Allen was a co-founder of Microsoft. He has taken a very long-term approach to developing a profoundly different approach. Where Bezos and Musk have pushed the development of traditional rockets, Allen is building the largest airplane in the world. It is essentially two planes connected by a midsection for a total wingspan of 385 feet. It uses six Boeing 747 engines to carry rockets or spaceships to high altitude. Allen wants to develop a space transportation system with the routine regularity of commercial airlines. The fifth great pioneering entrepreneur is not a billionaire, but he has been one of the most influential designers of our time. Burt Rutan has spent a lifetime designing unique aircraft and spacecraft. In fact, he worked with Allen to develop the composite materials and the visionary design that became the Branson SpaceShipTwo. In some ways, Rutan is a modern-day Thomas Edison. He is a continuously curious and inventive person who improves nearly everything he touches. He has been sustained by a lot of private contracts because his kind of constantly evolving intellect does very badly in a large government bureaucracy. The remarkable thing about the rise of the space entrepreneurs is that they may push Americans out into space three or four generations before the government model would have allowed. As entrepreneurs, all five of these leaders want to see lots of people in space. This is not hyperbole. They literally want to see tens of thousands of people in the next generation working in, visiting and developing space. They want colonies on the moon and Mars. They want to see people mining asteroids. We should work to make sure these are all American-led endeavours. Behind them, there are younger and even more inventive and daring entrepreneurs building new technologies, crashing costs and dramatically enhancing our ability to do things in space. The Trump-Pence vision of a bold American future in space will be achieved far more quickly by these free market entrepreneurs than by government bureaucracy. If government allows and enables these entrepreneurs – and the new ones they inspire – to lead America in a new space race, there is no doubt we will win.
1:11 'Vampire breast lift' uses blood to perk things up A new cosmetic procedure claims to produce results similar to a breast lift, without having to go under the knife. The procedure, which involves injecting the patient's own blood into her breasts, is being referred to as a vampire breast lift. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals.
The United States ended a delay of steel and aluminum tariffs for the European Union, Canada, and Mexico with a proclamation on Thursday. The proclamation means that steel and aluminum tariffs of 25 and 10 percent, respectively, temporarily delayed for these and various other countries, will now be imposed on the EU, Canada, and Mexico. Findings of section 232 investigations into the effect of steel and aluminum imports on the national security of the United States were released in January. President Donald Trump concurred in a March proclamation with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross’s findings from the January reports that included “steel mill articles are being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States.” As a result of these findings, President Trump imposed a 25 percent tariff on steel imports. The president added a caveat that countries could discuss with the U.S. “alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports from that country.” A similar finding was issued regarding aluminum imports. Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and the European Union took advantage of the offer. The U.S. afforded delay in implementation of the tariffs based on the “important security relationship” with each of these countries and pending continued discussions of the issue. Canada and Mexico were given the delay pending the ongoing NAFTA trade negotiations. Those negotiations have continued, but U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer has expressed at times that the negotiations have not progressed as quickly as had been hoped. The U.S. came to “satisfactory alternative” agreements with Argentina, Australia, and Brazil to extend exemption while details of those were finalized. The agreements were outlined in Thursday’s proclamation. European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker responded to news of the U.S. tariffs on the EU, calling the decision “protectionism, pure and simple,” according to the Associated Press. “It’s totally unacceptable that a country is imposing unilateral measures when it comes to world trade,” said Junker, who threatened the EU would soon issue “counterbalancing measures.” Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Want each new episode of this podcast as soon as it's out? SUBSCRIBE: CLICK HERE! Shannon Bream, host of FOX News @ Night on the FOX News Channel returns with new "Livin' The Bream" podcast. This week Anna Willey has assembled a list of viewers and listeners questions for Shannon. Listen to the latest "Livin' The Bream": Follow Shannon on Twitter: @ShannonBream and on Facebook: ShannonBreamTV
A prominent human rights activist, formerly a supporter of North Korea, spoke to reporters about the country Thursday at a symposium in South Korea, telling them that, based on his studies, he believes it is “impossible to find the whereabouts of all nuclear weapons in North Korea.” Kim Young-hwan added that he did not believe North Korea would ever agree to giving up all of its nuclear weapons even if it were possible to find them all and hand them over, echoing the concerns of defectors and other experts on the communist Kim regime. His analysis also follows the publication of an NBC News report claiming to have produced a CIA document showing that the American intelligence community is also skeptical that Kim Jong-un would ever agree in good faith to give up his nuclear weapons. In a press briefing Wednesday, a senior State Department official told reporters that the Trump administration would settle for no less than “CVID – complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization.” “In order for a summit to be successful, the North Koreans have to do things that they have not done before,” the unnamed official stated. The official was briefing reporters on a “working dinner” between Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and senior North Korean envoy Kim Yong-chol, held in New York City. “In bilateral talks, North Korea will yield to the U.S. in many areas. It may accommodate 80 to 90 percent of the U.S. demands for closure of its nuclear test site, suspension of nuclear tests, disabling of nuclear facilities and ICBMs and extensive nuclear inspections,” Kim Young-hwan told the audience at the Seoul symposium where he spoke, according to Yonhap. “Even if those demands are all met, it is impossible to find the whereabouts of all nuclear weapons in North Korea,” he warned. He added that there is evidence that Kim Jong-un would be interested in allowing international private corporations to invest in North Korea, but having foreigners invest in the country may make Pyongyang “see its continued possession of nuclear weapons as especially necessary for its policy of reform and opening.” Kim Jong-un appears to be receiving significant pressure from its largest trading partner and closest ally, China, to open up economically. A group of North Korean politicians, including both local and national officials, have spent weeks in China studying how the Communist Party there opened itself up to foreign investment while continuing to repress any political opposition. Kim Jong-un has visited Communist Party leader Xi Jinping twice this year – the only known trips Kim has made abroad as head of his country. Chinese officials and state media have repeatedly demanded that the United States invest economically in North Korea publicly. Kim Young-hwan’s assessment that a full denuclearization of North Korea is “impossible” echoes concerns expressed by Thae Yong-ho, a former senior North Korean diplomat who defected to the South and published a book this month on his experiences working for the Kim regime. “The final destination that the North is headed for is not to completely dismantle its nuclear weapons program, but become a nuclear weapons state covered by the paper called denuclearization,” he said in remarks this month. To Kim Jong-un, he argued, nuclear weapons are “a sword and a shield for eternal prosperity, prosperity and happiness for generations to come. … He will never give them up.” Thae concluded that Kim would advocate for “sufficient” denuclearization – that is, a strategy that would temporarily satisfy Washington’s desire to see the nuclear program shut down but not one that makes it impossible for the North Koreans to resume their weapons research should they choose to at a later date. He also warned that the North Korean people, who are taught from childhood that the Kim family are gods, will not take easily to denuclearizing. Kim Jong-un’s regime has insisted it is interested in the “full denuclearization of the Korean peninsula,” which skeptics have interpreted as a policy that would remove American assets from the region, not necessarily end the North Korean program. Following a meeting between South Korean officials and their counterparts in Pyongyang in March, an unnamed Seoul official told Yonhap that Kim remarked during their dinner that denuclearization was father Kim Jong-il’s “dying wish.” “Chairman Kim said that even denuclearization could be among the agenda items for talks between North Korea and the U.S.,” the official reportedly said. “What drew our attention, in particular, is that he made clear that achieving denuclearization is his father’s dying wish and that it has not been changed at all.” As a gesture of goodwill, the North Korean regime invited international journalists to the destruction of its lone nuclear testing site, Punggye-ri, last week. Pyongyang explicitly banned nuclear weapons experts from joining the journalists, making it impossible for any expert to assess how much the explosions at the site damaged it or whether it could be rehabilitated after the shutdown ceremony. Experts citing satellite imagery also doubted whether Punggye-ri was functional at all following the nation’s sixth nuclear test in September, which reportedly caused a major collapse in one of the tunnels. Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Though competition is great for consumers -- as they get more and better goods and services for less money -- some companies dislike the constant pressure it creates for them to stay ahead. When that's the case, it's no surprise when they call on the government to squash annoying competitors. Case in point: the big three U.S. airlines' attempts to limit the pressure by Persian Gulf carriers on their price and quality. Apparently, flying the friendly sky is all about U.S. airlines making money on the backs of their captive consumers. This all started when Delta, American and United hatched a big plan to limit flights to the United States by the airline Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways. The intent was to eliminate options for American consumers. Delta, the anti-competition gang leader, hoped to limit the foreign airlines' ability to offer lower prices, as well. When the American airlines realized they were fighting in vain, they shifted their focus toward preventing the Persian airlines from expanding their routes between U.S. cities and popular international destinations. All told, they spent up to $50 million of their shareholders' cash lobbying for government intervention against competition -- but it was all for naught. As it turns out, in spite of the money, this is one of those rare instances when the cronies lost and consumers and competition won the day. Indeed, a recent agreement between the United States and the United Arab Emirates -- after a similar agreement in January with Qatar -- basically changes nothing and preserves the open-skies agreement, with its market-liberalizing rules, between the two nations. The Gulf carriers agreed to new financial transparency standards, but no one believes that's what the U.S. carriers were fighting so hard to achieve. The real point of contention was the use of so-called fifth freedom flights, which allow airlines to carry traffic between foreign countries if they begin or end the route within their own nation. The U.S. airlines sought to prevent the Gulf carriers from expanding their fifth freedom routes in the United States, but instead of outright prohibition, they got only an assurance that there were currently no plans to add fifth freedom flights. It's a meaningless statement, seeing as they can change their plans at any time. What's notable is that despite gaining almost nothing of substance, the protectionists are nonetheless claiming victory. The director of the White House National Trade Council and leader of the protectionist contingent, Peter Navarro, pounced to declare a freeze on new U.S. routes by the Gulf carriers. He was subsequently forced to walk it back, as no such freeze exists. It's a good thing for consumers that competition is still permitted. The U.S. airlines couched their cronyism in appeals to fairness, arguing that the Gulf carriers were in violation of open-skies agreements by allegedly receiving government subsidies. Their case was considered weak even before weighing the various subsidies that domestic airlines also receive. A common error made by protectionists in this and other cases is the presumption that foreign subsidies put the United States at a competitive disadvantage. What's notable about this misunderstanding is that it's often asserted by the same individuals who profess to support limited government and free markets. They believe in free markets, but they don't believe in them enough to trust that they themselves can outperform the less free nations that choose to direct economic resources via political processes. The common reply is that they believe in free markets as long as they are "fair," but in the eyes of too many, fairness is a euphemism for a lack of competition. It seems much likelier that they don't really believe in markets at all. In the eyes of the protectionist, government must intervene whenever a U.S. industry appears to flounder, regardless of the source or nature of the competition. Navarro, for instance, is fully on board with the president's latest disastrous idea of a 25 percent tariff on auto imports. The upside to the agreements with Persian Gulf governments to preserve open skies is twofold. First, they preserve competition, which is by far the best way for consumers to get better and cheaper products year after year. Second, they send a strong message to the cronies that their dirty tricks don't always work.
This was all bound to end badly, and it has ended, to the relief of some and the consternation of others, mostly ambitious politicians and media types. We are talking, of course, about the tenure of Eric Greitens, the governor of Missouri, at least for the next 60 hours, or so. Greitens, in a surprise announcement Wednesday afternoon, declared that he will resign as the Missouri chief executive, bringing to an end the consequences of a tawdry extramarital affair, and a corresponding six months of turbulence in Missouri politics. Greitens stated that, while he committed no crime, he would resign his office on Friday, June 1st. Mike Parson, currently the state Lieutenant Governor, will be sworn in as the governor on Friday afternoon. While many would now say that Greitens is right in resigning the governorship, in light of the fact that he can no longer effectively steer the ship of state, it comes as a surprise nonetheless. Greitens, once considered a rising GOP star by many, especially himself, has insisted in the past that he would never resign, and would meet and facedown his accusers. Greitens seemed to be well along the way to accomplishing his mission two weeks ago, when the Prosecuting Attorney in St. Louis dismissed charges against him for snapping an unauthorized picture of his undressed lover and using it for blackmail purposes. Greitens’ legal troubles were not solved, but he had won the first round, decisively. The question that must be asked, and answered, if possible, is simple: Why did Greitens promise in Churchillian terms to fight this thing out, and then decide, after winning the early skirmishes that he would quit the field? There have been a number of ideas advanced to explain Mr. Greitens and his about face. The first of these possibilities is the perfectly reasonable explanation that Greitens realizes that he has lost his credibility, and cannot govern the state any longer. This echoes the refrain chanted by Missouri Democrats, and sounded by more than a few state Republicans since January, when the scandal hit the airwaves and newspapers.If Eric Greitens resigned because his ability to govern was crippled, he would have done so last winter, instead of putting the state, the citizens, his family and himself through this dreadful business. Moreover, Greitens’ ability to govern the state had been tenuous from the start. He proved to be a better campaigner than an administrator, and his oft-repeated vow to clean up the “swamp” in Jefferson City, the state capital, offended both Republicans and Democrats, in equal measure. Greitens had burned so many bridges that he had no allies, and no one to fight for him when the chips were down. The second possibility is more intriguing. Kim Gardner, the St. Louis Circuit Attorney, and resident laughing-stock, announced today that her office had been in consultations with Greitens’s defense team, and that they had reached an “understanding,” of which more would be revealed May 30th. What was she referring to? Ms. Gardner’s judicial superiors have taken her off the invasion-of-privacy case, so perhaps she meant the concomitant computer tampering case that grew out of the original charges. Still, this is a difficult outcome to accept at face value.Greitens has indignantly rejected proposed plea deals in this case to date. Why, after winning the initial face-off, would he accept a deal that somewhat vindicates his accusers and the state, and at least implies some guilt on his own part? So, we are left to conclude that Greitens is resigning because his political people have decided that he will not survive the legislative impeachment effort that was scheduled to begin next week. Greitens is not going because it is the right thing to do, or the honorable thing to do. He is going because he will be forced from office otherwise. He is off the hook for the moment, but has the ignominy of resigning, one step ahead of the tar and feathers brigade. Greitens will go, and probably quietly, but there are many elements of the case that will likely never come to light. The slapstick nature of this case, in which we never saw a criminal complaint, and had a victim who never wanted to go forward with a legal action, has been humorous, but legally dubious. No one, outside of the lawyers involved, know the victim by anything other than her initials. No one knows the extent of her ex-husband’s part in tipping off a well-connected Democratic attorney about the affair, and Kim Gardner has been allowed to wriggle out of the sticky wicket she had caught herself in, with her lies, evasions, and outright perjuries. Finally, and probably most importantly, we will never find out the extent of the Missouri Democratic Party in these shenanigans. As we mentioned in these pages last week, a prominent Democratic state representative from an inner ring St. Louis suburb contacted the victim in early January, and urged her to file a criminal complaint against the governor, promising her first-class legal representation at no cost. We now know that Kim Gardner arranged a private meeting with the victim in a motel room across the river in Illinois and also urged her to file a complaint against Greitens. The woman’s refusal to do so led Gardner to institute a Grand Jury inquiry, forcing the victim to testify, against her will. Also, Roy Temple, the former head of the Missouri Democratic Party, has been singled out, by some observers as the man behind the curtain. The Greitens defense team wanted to put Temple under oath in a deposition, but they were refused this request by the chief judge of the St. Louis Circuit, a loyal Democrat. None of this is meant to excuse Eric Greitens. It was difficult to watch his announcement Tuesday afternoon, and to contemplate the ruin of the man, along with his career and his family life. He has, however, no one but himself to blame, and it is a sad commentary on politics, ambition, and the Sixth Commandment.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The scientific, moral and theological battle between life as an "endowed unalienable" right and the evolutionary view that we are just material and energy shaped by pure chance in a random universe with no author of life, no purpose for living and no destination after we die has been won in Ireland by the evolutionists. Once strongly Catholic Ireland has removed protection for the unborn, at least through the first 12 weeks of a woman's pregnancy, with the repeal of that country's eighth constitutional amendment. Now that the door has been opened, as in America with Roe v. Wade, watch for the inevitable push for abortion on demand at any stage of fetal development. The generational change, the scandals in Ireland's once-dominant Catholic Church, the way the constitutional amendment was written in language that seemed harsh to many, the changing mores of an increasingly secular society, pressure from other European Union states that already allow abortion on demand, a media bias in favor of the repeal vote -- all of these contributed to victory for the "yes" side. Ireland's pregnancy help centers, which assist women with unplanned pregnancies at no charge, were virtually ignored by the media in favor of the "right" of women to make their own choices. The argument against abortion is an old and familiar one, but no less powerful when one seriously considers that the unborn child is not a "part" of the woman. That point is driven home when the child is allowed to live because the child then grows and lives physically apart from its mother, potentially for decades. Such arguments do not resonate with a younger generation that has been brought up to believe they can do whatever seems right in their own eyes, effectively becoming little deities, even in matters as profound as life and death. Independent Irish Senator Ronan Mullen told the Irish Times, "Ireland has lost something very beautiful" (with the vote to repeal the Eighth Amendment). ... "a lot of unborn children will lose their lives in future -- that is what happens when abortion gets legalized. I would ask people to keep those children in their thoughts and prayers today, and their mothers, and those involved in their lives." Pro-lifers should increase their support of the country's pregnancy centers, where women can be offered help, adoption services and other aid, and be encouraged not to "play God" and to deliver their babies even in difficult circumstances. The many women I have spoken to over the years who made such a decision have told me they have never regretted it, while many others who have had abortions -- some more than one -- live with regret their entire lives. On the day the vote took place, a Washington Post editorial praised D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser for adopting a child, noting the "progress" made since adoption agencies no longer require a two-parent home. The Post, which is editorially "pro-choice," seems unaware of the irony, that in order for the mayor to have adopted her daughter, a woman had to decide not to abort her. Adoption, not abortion, is the best choice for a woman who does not want her child, because someone does, as evidenced by the waiting list of couples seeking to adopt. Some Irish eyes are smiling over the outcome of the repeal vote, which must still be implemented by the Irish legislature. The eyes of many others are weeping for the babies who will die and the women who will join other women and come to regret aborting their children.
S&P 500 Index +0.66% Consumer Discretionary (XLY) +0.47% Consumer Staples (XLP) +0.34% Energy (XLE) +0.88% Financials (XLF) +0.75% Health Care (XLV) +0.03% Industrials (XLI) +1.65% Materials (XLB) +0.54% Real Estate (XLRE) +1.13% Technology (XLK) +0.68% Utilities (XLU) +0.63% Dirty Fingernails Winning It was a solid rebound across the board for the market on Monday, led by industrial names, which got help from China trade developments. However, it also continues their stealth rally as a proxy for the U.S. economy. One of my big themes has been intermodal container carriers that are easily lifted off ships onto rail cars and trucks. J.B. Hunt Transport Services (JBHT) hit an all-time high, and many others are coming on strong. I’ve been pounding the table on this, and I hope everyone has exposure in their portfolio. The State of the Consumer Retailers edged higher in front of an avalanche of earnings reports out this week that will continue to separate those that have figured out the right formula and have made adjustments while punishing those names that aren’t moving fast enough. In addition to retailers, we get results from several restaurant names and a key homebuilder. Results before the open: T.J. Maxx (TJX) Kohl’s (KSS) Advance Auto Parts (AAP) AutoZone (AZO) Toll Brothers (TOL) Oil Keeps Gushing Last Friday, Baker Hughes (BHGE) released its rig count data that showed just one new gas rig came online during the week. That was really impressive in the sense there wasn’t a wild free-for-all among independent drillers. The ability to shun their own wildcat impulses could be the difference for better crude testing at $80.00 before retesting at $60.00. Despite all the articles about activity around the country, it is still about the Permian. While the total oil rig count was unchanged at 844, the Permian Basin edged higher to 467 rigs from 463. At the close of trading West Texas Intermediate (WTI) finished +$0.96 to $72.24. The surge in WTI is stirring speculation about a wave of takeovers with potential candidates: Range Resources (RRC) and Chesapeake Energy (CHK). Buyback Mania After drifting last year, corporate buybacks were all the rage, powered in part by strong corporate profits and tax cuts. There is always a debate over the best use of corporate funds with options ranging from capital investment to higher wages, but there are generally two ways to reward shareholders: Buybacks Dividends I would like to see higher dividend payments and capital spending, but as an investor, I’m okay with the current phenomenon. There is no doubt this helps to put a bid in the market for large-cap companies with strong cash flows. After the bell, we got two major announcements: (ADBE) Adobe Systems: $8.0 billion (MU) Micron Technology: $10.0 billion Main Street Enthusiasm In fact, the action in the Russell has reached new all-time highs for the fourth session in a row, which reflects the domestic economy - a point underscored in the latest Gallup poll. Sixty-seven percent of Americans believe that now is a good time to find a quality job in the U.S., the highest percentage in 17 years of the Gallup polling. However, optimism about the availability of good jobs has grown by 25% since Donald Trump was elected president. A Nod to the Current Administration It’s not just Gallup, but another poll sponsored by CBS shows a big shift in optimism in the economy with more and more folks giving credit to President Trump. This is important because folks have to believe to give the recovery longer-term legs. CBS News Nation Tracker poll: Americans give Trump credit for good economy, mixed reviews on N.K. Nearly 2 in 3 Americans think the nation's economy is in good shape, and most of them believe President Trump's policies are at least somewhat responsible for that. More Republicans rate the economy positively than Democrats. How would you rate the nation’s economy today? Very Good: 18% Somewhat Good: 46% Not Very Much: 27% Very Bad: 9% How much do you think Donald Trump’s policies are responsible for the current state of the economy? A Great Deal: 35% Somewhat: 33% Not Very: 21% Not at All: 11% Today’s Session Retail earnings are front and center this morning including those that have shares popping ahead of the opening bell. Kohl’s (KSS) saw revenue $4.2 billion +3.5% Operating margin 2.5 from 1.6 Comp store sales +3.6% Lowered long-term debt Solid inventory management Management raises guidance AutoZone (AZO) beat the street as net sales climbed to $2.7 billion Gross margin 53.5 from 52.6 Operating margin 20.5 from 20.2 Adverse weather hurt sales but management confident consumers are catching up. Advanced Auto Parts and TJ Maxx were a lot lower this morning and both have turned higher. We are looking into those as well but the fact management can turn stocks in this environment means analysts are okay and believe goals can be achieved. On that note Macy’s, the big retail winner last week, just got a fresh stock upgrade this morning. China Trade Showdown Update China will lower tariffs effective July 1. Auto tariffs will decline to 15% from 25% where it was for decades Auto parts tariffs will decline to 6% from current range 10% to 25% The administration will also allow ZTE back into America after major management changes and a huge fine. Of course we need to make sure the rogue company isn’t spying on Americans, too. In return there will be no agriculture tariffs and China is working on increasing its imports of US agriculture. To make an overall assessment on this is like determining the winner of the Super Bowl in the middle of the first quarter. I’m hopeful it could be a great deal but we must admit we’d be living under the status quo if the administration didn’t push back in the first place.
By Melissa Genson | WatchdogWire.com This is Part 4 of a series about a new ESA micro-listing, and its impact on a rural community. Read Part 1 here, Part 2 here, and Part 3 here. Larry Weaver wants his gopher blood back. That smidgen of gopher blood means the world to both Weaver and many in his Rochester community in southwest Thurston County, Washington. Weaver, a realtor and small developer, allowed the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife to trap a mazama pocket gopher on his Rochester property, to collect DNA. The DNA blood sample was supposed to be tested to find out whether his gopher was indeed a member of an Endangered Species Act federally listed “subspecies.” To date, there has never been proof that any mazama pocket gopher “subspecies” even exists. That didn’t stop their ESA listing, or the state and local protection that preceded it. International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature In their April 2014 federal listing of four subspecies of the mazama pocket gopher, U.S. Fish and Wildlife defended their lack of DNA proof or other evidence. USFW stated that these subspecies were recognized by the “International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature,” stating on page 5: It is possible that ongoing genetic work will clarify the relationship between the subspecies in the future, and if the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature receives and accepts a revised taxonomy for the Mazama pocket gopher that is at odds with the taxonomy used here, we can revisit the listing at that time. To date, however, there has been no publication of any data that could lead to a formal submission for a revision of the taxonomy of the Mazama pocket gopher to the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature, nor is there any record indicating that they have received any petition to consider a revision. Therefore, consistent with the direction from the Act (i.e., based on the best scientific and commercial data available at the time of our finding), we are using the established taxonomy for the Mazama pocket gopher, which recognizes the Olympia, Roy Prairie, Tenino, and Yelm pocket gopher as separate subspecies. So who is the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature, and what do they have to say about our mazama pocket gopher? Read the complete story at WatchdogWire.com
I received my Ph.D. from George Mason University in Fairfax, VA, and I have very fond memories of that experience, including interactions with great economistssuch as James Buchanan and Walter Williams. But not everyone has favorable views of GMU’s market-friendly program. There’s a group, UnKoch My Campus, that pretends to be horrified that the school has attracted contributions from philanthropists such as Charles Koch and David Koch. In a column for the Washington Post, Steven Pearlstein opines about the ostensible controversy. Thanks to a group of courageous and persistent students, George Mason University was recently forced to acknowledge that it had accepted millions of dollars from billionaire Charles Koch and other conservatives under arrangements that gave the donors input into several appointments at the university’s famously libertarian economics department. These arrangements violated traditional norms meant to insulate academic institutions from donor influence… The story fits neatly into the liberal narrative that the Koch brothers, Charles and David, have used their inherited oil wealth to fund the development of radical economic theories at Koch-funded universities. At the risk of digressing before I even get started, I have to correct Pearlstein’s snide comment about “inherited oil wealth.” The Koch brothers did inherit a valuable company, but they are not dilettantes with trust funds. They took a successful company and built it into an extremely successful firm. I wouldn’t be surprised if more than 90 percent of any contributions they make are a result of value they created. Also, Charles Koch is a libertarian rather than a conservative. Anyhow, back to our regularly scheduled program. Pearlstein may have taken a cheap shot at the Kochs, but at least he doesn’t blindly parrot the leftist narrative. …at Mason, the story is more complicated… I’ve been a professor at Mason. …I’m not a member of the economics department — they wouldn’t have me. But over the years, I’ve gotten to know and admire many of the economists there. For the most part, I have found them to be good economists and teachers, incredibly smart, intellectually honest and curious. …In the case of Mason’s economics department, the faculty have driven the donor relationships. In most instances, it was the faculty who approached and solicited Koch and other donors with specific projects in mind, not the other way around. …Our economics department is not libertarian and conservative because it is funded by Koch and his friends; they fund our economics department because its faculty is — and always has been — overwhelmingly conservative and libertarian. …rules and norms of university governance give faculty the power to hire people who think like they do. …Sorting by political or academic ideology is a naturally occurring phenomenon at universities. Pearlstein suggests that university administrators should insist on more intellectual diversity. The challenge is figuring out what to do about it. …It would have been better if Mason’s presidents and provosts had insisted on more ideological diversity in the law school and the economics department. Perhaps there’s merit to that idea. But if that’s Pearlstein’s goal, he should first focus on other departments at other schools. Because there’s an overwhelming bias in the other direction when looking at America’s system of higher education. Here’s a report from Inside Higher Ed about some academic research by Mitchell Langbert, Anthony Quain, and Daniel Klein. A new study…, published online by Econ Journal Watch, considered voter registration data for faculty members at 40 leading U.S. institutions in economics, history, communications, law and psychology. Of 7,243 professors total, about half are registered. Some 3,623 are Democrats while just 314 are Republicans. Economists are the most mixed group, with a ratio of 4.5 Democrats for every Republican. Historians as a group are the most lopsided, at 33.5 to one… There are also regional effects, with ratios highest in New England. …Women are much more likely to be registered Democrats, at 24.8 to one. Among men, the ratio is nine to one. …Brown University has the highest ratio for all five disciplines combined, at 60 to one, Democrat to Republican. It’s followed by Boston University (40 to one), Johns Hopkins University and the University of Rochester (both 35 to one), and Northeastern University (33 to one). The lowest ratio — that is, the most even mix of registered Democrats and Republicans — is at Pepperdine University, at 1.2 registered Democrats for every Republican. Case Western Reserve University is next, at 3.1 to one. Here’s a chart from the report showing that economics is the most balanced discipline, but even in that field Democrats outnumber Republicans by a 4.5:1 margin. Professor Langbert has some new research on this topic. And, as pointed out in this report, the problem isn’t getting better. An extensive study of 8,688 tenure-track professors at 51 of the 66 top-ranked liberal arts colleges in the U.S. published by the National Association of Scholars found that the ratio of faculty members registered as Democrats compared to those registered Republican is now a stunning 10.4 to 1. If two military colleges that are technically described as “liberal arts colleges” are removed from the calculations, the ratio is 12.7 to 1. …nearly 40% of the colleges in the study had zero faculty members who were registered Republican. Not a single one. Nearly 80% of the 51 colleges had so few Republican faculty members that they were statistically insignificant. …this trend toward an increasingly uniformly left-leaning faculty has spanned decades, both in the United States and Britain. “More than a decade ago, Stanley Rothman and colleagues provided evidence that while 39 percent of the professoriate on average described itself as Left in 1984, 72 percent did so in 1999,” Langbert writes. “They find a national average D:R ratio of 4.5:1. Wow. University professors may be even further to the left than journalists. Let’s circle back to the controversy at George Mason University. The Wall Street Journal recently editorialized on the faux controversy. Progressives dominate all but a few corners of American academia, but apparently they want it all. Witness the political and media assault on George Mason University, an island of intellectual diversity in Northern Virginia… an outfit called UnKoch My Campus…claims that donors like Charles and David Koch inappropriately influence university decisions. The demand is for “transparency” but the real goal is to silence conservative views. …Among the horrors supposedly uncovered by UnKoch is that one condition of these gifts was that George Mason rename its law school after Antonin Scalia. …The truth is that the naming request and decision went through normal university channels that included a vote by the university’s Board of Visitors, as well as the State Council on Higher Education for Virginia. …Donors are committing no crime in trying to judge if their philanthropy is fulfilling its purpose. The Kochs, God bless them, believe in supporting academics who believe in the principles of liberty and market economics. …Researchers from Stanford, Harvard and the University of Chicago Law School found last year that only 15% of American law school professors are conservative. We’re surprised it’s that many. My two cents is that universities – either faculty and/or administrators – should be free to hire whoever they want under whatever rules they want. And students (or their parents) should be able to say no to schools that go overboard. But here’s the catch. I don’t want to pay for any of it, either directly or via my kids. Let’s get rid of federal handouts for higher education. The good news is that the no-subsidy approach also would reduce tuition costs since there no longer would be a third-party-payer problem. Sounds like a win-win scenario. P.S. My dissertation topic at GMU was Australia’s private retirement system, which was a clever decision on my part. Nobody in the United States at the time knew anything about the Aussie approach, which meant it was a) comparatively easy to make a contribution to the literature, and b) the professors on my committee didn’t know enough about the topic to nit-pick. Best of all worlds.
0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals. 1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths.
When Jesus appeared before his disciples after his resurrection, they were terrified. They thought he had returned to exact the same kind of justice standard for the ancient world: vengeance. Instead of violent reprisal, Jesus said, “Shalom.” This greeting was more than a cessation of violence, it was a declaration of a new world order of harmony based on nonviolence and the imitation of Jesus. It was a statement that no space existed between the two parties for all were united in love. I saw that same Shalom when I spoke with Hawk Newsome, president of Black Lives Matter of Greater New York and a rising leader on the forefront of the new civil rights movement. That harmony was manifested through our common desire to imitate Jesus as our highest role model for a new vision of neighborly ethics for society. From the start, Hawk informed me that his mission is to call people to enact love by seeking justice beyond racial, partisan, or class divisions. His leadership in Black Lives Matter finds him confronting cases dealing with questions of police brutality, racial profiling, and mass incarceration. But his Christian-grounded approach transcends boundaries that have derailed these challenges. His desire to see all life as sacred was felt in a recent widely shared speech where he treated Trump voters with Christian love. Although they share crossover interests, his local organization is not formerly affiliated with the larger Black Lives Matter global group. Tea Party attendees, libertarian activists, and Trump voters all know what it is like for people to unfairly pre-judge individuals based on the sins (alleged or real) of others using those banners. Likewise, it's important for conservatives and libertarians to extend the same presumption of goodwill to Mr. Newsome and his efforts rather than judge him by the actions or statements of every voice that has used the Black Lives Matter mantra. Hawk and I found common ground in taking our faith seriously. We believe Jesus calls us to imitate his ethic of nonviolence in the way we view justice and law. We believe when Jesus said, “Do not resist evil with violence,” that meant something real that we should consider every time we go into the secrecy of the voting booth or jury box. Enjoy my interview with Hawk Newsome here. The path forward that will unite conservative Christians, libertarians, and African Americans is the practical guidepost of imitating Jesus. With it, we can move past endless arguments over the motivations and intentions of particular police officers in violent situations with African Americans and solve solutions based on a principle on which we should all agree. If there is no victim, there is no crime. This principle is common sense when we take the group think of politics out of the way. As individuals, we know what real violence is and we have an intuitive moral sense that such acts should be met with defensive force to stop them. As individuals, if we saw a person being burglarized, assaulted, or attempts thereof, we would be morally right to use defensive force to restrain the attacker. Likewise, if we saw someone trying to defraud another person with a fake product—like beachfront property in Nebraska or selling mayonnaise as Vitamin C—we would again understand that defensive force can be used to stop said behavior. So whatever we know to be right to physically restrain as individuals can be enshrined as law for society to use defensive force to stop as well. Anything else is anti-law. Making a law against anything else only results in moral chaos, resentment, disintegration of the family, and alienated tribalism. Once we cede the moral principle that we can hire a politician or go along with a jury and enforce a law that uses the violence of the state—armed police and prison cages—to correct a nonviolent, victimless act, we give the state a power which always becomes arbitrary, divisive, and tyrannical. For example, we lose the moral authority and legal precedent to prevent laws criminalizing unpopular speech when we maintain laws that put drug users, consensual adult sex workers, gamblers, raw milk sellers, or drivers with broken tail lights in human cages. Prison cells are a social version of the same physical restraints we naturally use against violence. So when we abuse them for other types of nonviolent sins or vices, we end up bearing false witness against our neighbors. Actions speak louder than words. And when a community places a human being in a cage (with no proper protection from actual violent offenders), we are performing a lie. We are treating them as if they have done something which warrants sending agents trained to use deadly force, kidnapping them from their families, and caging them with barbed wires and gun towers. In other words, we are resisting evil with violence. In other words, when we keep victimless crime laws on the books we are rejecting the ethics of Jesus. I know most of us have not been taught to deconstruct the nature of law in this way. And so we must have grace and patience with people as they are confronted with this reality. But once we see this truth we have an obligation to act on it. Luckily, the Founding Fathers—though sometimes deeply flawed in execution—agreed with our desire for a society based on nonviolence. They believed government only existed to protect our life, liberty, and property. In other words, if there is no victim, there should be no law abridging liberty. So they created a jury system with the ability to strike down or nullify bad laws which were immoral acts of violence. Jury nullification was famously used by Christians to nonviolently resist the enforcement of the fugitive slave laws. Christians knew their conscience could not stand forcing an innocent human being into captivity. Likewise, we can imitate Jesus and follow our Founders' legal vision by voting “Not Guilty” on trials in which a human being faces prison captivity for a nonviolent, victimless act. No one who takes Jesus's expectations seriously thinks they get a pass if a crowd of other people say its okay. Jesus told the crowd trying to punish the woman accused of adultery, “He who is without sin, cast the first stone.” This challenge forced each person to snap out of the violent group think suppressing their moral clarity to see the ugliness of their desire. Without a faceless crowd to hide in, each person had to come face to face with the morality of using violence against a person for a nonviolent vice. Adultery has destroyed more families than any drug ever has and yet Jesus saw no need for force to restore the woman. How much more so should we use nonviolent accountability and therapy for our neighbors. If Christian conservatives want to build a lasting coalition of liberty for the future, we must join hand in hand with our African American brothers concerned about the mass incarceration of millions of persons for nonviolent acts. If we want a society that does not use state violence to force nonviolent business decisions, limit our healthcare choices, or censor free speech, we must defend the principle of no victim, no crime now. No more scapegoats. No more blame shifting. No more ignoring Jesus. No more resisting victimless vices with violence. We do not need to scapegoat police. Nor do we need to send them into no-win situations where they must enforce useless laws against nonviolent behaviors. If the police report cannot name a victim, we as a society should have never asked a police officer to write it. We can set a legal and moral precedent for our future that saves the republic and heals the racial division and broken families that our addiction to victimless crime laws create. When we refuse to vote for officials in both parties and use our jury right to nullify abusive laws, we will destroy the drug cartels that only exist due to prohibition laws, restore mothers and fathers to their vulnerable children, and set a cycle of reciprocal mercy and solidarity that will transform our neighborhoods forever. Shalom. Let's get to work.
1:44 Sarah Jessica Parker stepped out in a $1,810 floral ensemble at the Tribeca Film Festival in New York. With hubby Matthew Broderick on her arm, the “Divorce” star wore sparkly $365 heels from her own line, SJP. During another night out at the Irish Repertory Theatre, Parker wore a navy patterned dress. The preppy outfit totaled $2,724. Want these looks for less? This is Price Tagged by Page Six.
Very interesting stuff from retiring Congressman Trey Gowdy -- a former federal prosecutor and South Carolina conservative who's developed a reputation in Washington for sharp thinking and independent straight shooting. He is also among the exceptionally small handful of lawmakers on Capitol Hill who have been privy to details pertaining to the federal government's handling of the Russia probe and its various tentacles. In an interview with Fox News' Martha MacCallum last night, Gowdy acknowledged a string of legitimate frustrations President Trump harbors about the Russia matter, as well as certain former members of the intelligence community and Justice Department. But he quickly pivoted to reassuring both Trump and the American people that the furor over 'spy-gate' (the narrative under which the Obama DOJ supposedly placed an informant within the opposition party's presidential campaign to help defeat it) has been vastly overblown: &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;span class="fr-marker" data-id="0" data-type="true" style="display: none; line-height: 0;"&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;span class="fr-marker" data-id="0" data-type="false" style="display: none; line-height: 0;"&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt; MM: Was that point of view that you're talking about right now strengthened when you went into this briefing last week? TG: Yes. I am even more convinced that the FBI did exactly what my fellow citizens would want them to do when they got the information they got, and that it has nothing to do with Donald Trump. He followed this up with an appearance on CBS This Morning earlier today (click the link for full video). As you watch and consider his commentary, bear in mind that Gowdy was one of the very few people who attended one of two closely-held, classified DOJ briefings last week about this very controversy. He has seen more actual information and specific details related to this issue than nearly anyone on the face of the earth who's opining about it, especially in print or on air: Gowdy on CBS this morning: “Informants are used all day, every day by law enforcement.” https://t.co/iq0mJt58EB — John McCormack (@McCormackJohn) May 30, 2018 Even as he treads carefully not to betray any secret information, what is Gowdy telling us? (1) He's saying that the FBI's investigation of Russia's election interference ("Russia was the target" of the probe, he asserted several times across the two highlighted segments) was launched on a good-faith basis and was not illegitimately predicated, in his estimation. The portion of Gowdy's response to MacCallum that's getting the most play in the media today is his statement that he's now "even more convinced that the FBI did exactly what my fellow citizens would want them to do" under the circumstances. Similarly, responding to a question from a CBS anchor about whether he believes the FBI "acted properly in this matter," Gowdy replied: "Based on what I have seen, I don't know what the FBI could have done or should have done" differently. That's a meaningful effective endorsement, especially when coupled with his multiple (diplomatic) rejections of the terms "spy" and "spy-gate." Confidential informants, he notes, are used "all day, every day" by law enforcement. It may be quite unusual for a CI to exist within a presidential campaign, to be sure, but that is still not the same thing as a "spy" being placed inside a campaign by politically-motivated actors in an effort to bring it down. That would indeed be one of the biggest scandals in US history, as the president has been saying -- if there were any evidence to back it up. Right now, there is not. Granted, that could change as the respected and tough DOJ Inspector General fulfills his latest charge (which I support, by the way), but Gowdy seems to doubt that any such proof will turn up. This seems like a relevant moment to remind you of my biggest problem with the most conspiratorial "deep state" and "spy gate" hyperventilations: I support the IG looking into potential FISA abuses or other possible Obama-era misconduct against the Trump campaign. But as I consider the counter-narrative, this point keeps sticking in my mind: https://t.co/M8p4fm7eWf pic.twitter.com/28jhMfjM64 — Guy Benson (@guypbenson) May 22, 2018 (2) Garnering less attention is the second bolded piece of Gowdy's answer excerpted above, which strikes me as rather significant. Even if the feds were examining the conduct and associations of a small number of individuals "loosely connected to" the Trump campaign as part of a broader probe, the FBI's focus and targets had "nothing to do with Donald Trump," he said. Either the South Carolinian has an extremely strong poker face and somehow has it in for the president, or he's seen enough material about the provenance and progress of the investigation that he's convinced Trump is not a target and is not in any serious peril. My suspicion that the latter is true is only deepened by Gowdy's advice that Trump ought to talk to Robert Mueller (within reasonably confined parameters, he adds) in order to formally assert his innocence on alleged "collusion." Again, this is just a hunch, but my guess is that Gowdy firmly believes that Trump himself with emerge unscathed from this probe, and having cooperated with it will be an asset in claiming full vindication. This flies in the face of a lot of counsel, the general consensus behind which is that Trump should avoid an in-person interview with Mueller like the plague. It's possible that Gowdy's opinion on this may be turn out to be foolish, but I think he's in a better and more informed position to dispense advice than almost anyone else weighing in on the subject. (3) Finally, this answer seems telling: CBS: Your Republican colleagues -- are they on board with the way you're speaking out? You're breaking ranks with some people... TG: I will tell you this, the ones that are on SSI [the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence], Marco Rubio and others -- Tom Cotton's on SSI. He's hardly a flaming liberal...the folks who have seen the information, I think, have the same perspective I have. Those who have not seen the information? I don't know what informs their perspective. Sure enough, here's how Rubio addressed this firestorm on ABC News' The Week this past Sunday: "What I have seen is evidence that they were investigating individuals with a history of links to Russia that were concerning...As far as what I have seen to date, it appears that there was an investigation not of the campaign, but of certain individuals who have a history that we should be suspicious of, that predate the presidential campaign of 2015, 2016. And when individuals like that are in the orbit of a major political campaign in America, the FBI, who is in charge of counterintelligence investigations, should look at people like that." Also notice how Tom Cotton, who never seems afraid to stick his neck out or ruffle feathers, has remained conspicuously muted on "spy-gate" and the Russia investigation, reflecting the posture of SSI's bipartisan membership. Speaking of notable silence, there's also this: Rep. Gowdy's comments are particularly welcome in light of Rep. Nunes' odd silence since the meeting. Nunes went from daily blasts at DOJ to nothing. https://t.co/JOTuHmnOVA https://t.co/P0fmcich7B — Gabriel Malor (@gabrielmalor) May 30, 2018 Recall, too, that Carter Page had been on the government's radar screen due to his connections with Moscow long before Donald Trump was even a candidate for the presidency. And a few other people connected to Trump's eventual campaign -- either intimately or tangentially -- really were tied into (or seriously alleged to be connected to) some pretty sketchy activities over the years. What Gowdy et al appear to be signaling is that there was enough 'smoke' to justify the feds' use of an informant within the Trump campaign, which is not tantamount to spying on Team Trump in order to harm the campaign. I'll say it again: The easiest way the "deep state" could have devastated Trump's (already thin-seeming) electoral chances would have been to leak the existence of a multi-pronged federal counter-intelligence investigation into Trump campaign figures, circa October 2016. That didn't happen. I'll leave you with the president's tweets quoting Gowdy from this morning's CBS News interview, which only dealt with the Congressman's answer about Trump's frustration with his Attorney General: Rep.Trey Gowdy, “I don’t think so, I think what the President is doing is expressing frustration that Attorney General Sessions should have shared these reasons for recusal before he took the job, not afterward. If I were the President and I picked someone to be the country’s.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 ....chief law enforcement officer, and they told me later, ‘oh by the way I’m not going to be able to participate in the most important case in the office, I would be frustrated too...and that’s how I read that - Senator Sessions, why didn’t you tell me before I picked you..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 ....There are lots of really good lawyers in the country, he could have picked somebody else!” And I wish I did! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 "And I wish I did!" Trump reportedly berated and ridiculed Jeff Sessions to his face, urging him to reverse his recusal call ("the right decision under the rules of the Justice Department," according to...Rudy Giuliani last year) or to resign. Today's tweets are just the latest taunting indignity Sessions has endured. The president has a remedy here, of course. As we've written before, if he's lost faith in his Attorney General, he has complete authority to fire him -- just as he has fairly sweeping authority to declassify a trove of key documents related to the Russia investigation. If Sessions is failing at his job, and if the publication of a currently-classified paper trail would justify Trump's constant drumbeat of fuming tweets (which his own lawyer has confirmed is at least partially a public relations strategy), why not pull the trigger on both and let the chips fall?
The Kansas Supreme Court will decide if the state must allocate millions of dollars more to education, a move that Gov. Sam Brownback says could mean “major tax increases.” The court heard oral arguments last week. Read more here.
Of all the complaints about Donald Trump by Democrats and Never Trumpers, his use of Twitter was a special irritant. The establishment was desperate to get Mr. Trump off Twitter not because they were appalled but because they knew it was his singular and powerful connection to the public. It made the difference during the campaign, and his opponents feared it would be his super power as president as well. It would be one of the rare times they were right about him. President Trump’s mastery of the micro-blogging site has become a key factor in his success with governance, self-defense against an old system determined to nullify his presidency, and plays an important part in the ‘art of the deal.’ From negotiations with North Korea, promoting the impact of the tax cuts, pushing back on the fictions of the legacy media, to railing against Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s “witch hunt,” Mr. Trump reminds the establishment every day of the fact that he is in charge. “The FAKE & FRAUDULENT NEWS MEDIA is working hard to convince Republicans and others I should not use social media - but remember, I won the 2016 election with interviews, speeches and social media. I had to beat #FakeNews, and did. We will continue to WIN! My use of social media is not Presidential - it’s MODERN DAY PRESIDENTIAL. Make America Great Again!” the president said in a series of tweets on July 1, 2017. Those who didn’t take him seriously then now only need look at how Americans are viewing the Mueller investigation. The Washington Post reported earlier this month, “A shrinking majority of Americans say Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation of Russian election interference and possible links to Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign should continue… The Monmouth University poll finds 54 percent of Americans saying the special counsel’s investigation should continue, with support down from 60 percent in March and 62 percent in July. A 43 percent minority says the investigation should end, up six points since March and 10 points since last summer.” The very thing his opponents complaint about—his style—is exactly what makes him successful. Some political critics have mocked the president’s comments on the probe as “tirades” about which Mr. Mueller doesn’t care. But that’s not the point. Mr. Trump is speaking to Americans who have been inundated with hostile and 24/7 legacy media coverage. Never Trumper and New York Times columnist David Brooks is now regretting the nonstop coverage, but only because Mr. Trump has taken control of the narrative. On PBS’ NewsHour he lamented, "Well, he [Trump] has realized that the Mueller investigation is not a bad thing for him, but a good thing for him, that if he can create a narrative that it’s him vs. the swamp, and that all the arms of the U.S. government are really politicized, things controlled by the Democrats or the elites, by whoever, then he can use the soap opera, give it a new plot twist every single day, which is really what he’s been doing all week, a new set of tweets just to get us talking about it. Personally, I’m sick of all the daily stories about it. I think we overplay it, frankly," said Mr. Brooks. In other words, Mr. Trump has been able to interject the reality of what’s happening. Mr. Brooks can cast that as a ‘soap opera’ if he wants, but it is another scream in the dark by an establishment mourning the death of a national conversation that had been controlled only by them. In a story during the 2016 campaign about Mr. Trump’s Twitter use, the New York Times reported, “Mike Berland, a political operative who worked on Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and is chief executive of Edelman Berland, calls it the ‘Wall of Trump.’ We’ve never seen this before in politics,’ Mr. Berland said. ‘This is not just a rally that happens once in a while. This is a continuous Trump rally that happens on Twitter at all hours. He fills the Twitter stadium every day.’” File this as one of those rare times when the New York Times gets a fact correct. One example of the depth of the cultural impact of the president’s Twitter use is provided by the “Roseanne” show on ABC. During the season finale, the Conner family is facing financial ruin due to a flash flood damaging the family home’s foundation, only to be saved by a Trump tweet. “The show’s season finale featured a fictional state-of-emergency declaration from the president that bailed out the financially strapped Conners after a storm hit. ‘The president spelled ‘Illinois’ wrong in his tweet, but it still counts, right?’ Darlene (Sara Gilbert) cracked,” reported Huffington Post. The very thing his opponents complaint about—his style—is exactly what makes him successful. A Trump tweet is an unfiltered exercise in candor, a packet of information, about what the president of the United States is thinking. His honesty and the immediacy of the communication builds trust. Reporters and critics have been the darlings of the political establishment for generations in large part because they’ve controlled the national conversation. Courtesy of the perfect storm of Donald Trump and Twitter, those days are over. Sad!
I’m running down the road in 3-inch heels, maniacally dodging crowds of minion-like businessmen. A huge clock hovers above the road, letting me know that I am late again. I try to run faster, but my heel is wedged into the pavement. I’m completely stuck. As I wrestle with my immovable heel I realize that I have forgotten to get dressed. I wake up feeling stressed and anxious. It’s only 7 a.m. and I feel like I have already screwed up. My work dreams have been dominating my nights for weeks and I’m over it. Maybe it’s time to pay closer attention? An army of anxious dreamers Between 50 and 80 percent of us dream about work and many of those surveyed admitted to waking up in a cold sweat, according to Forbes. Having experienced work-anxiety dreams myself, it doesn’t surprise me at all. My own reoccurring dream about being late for work even features in the top five most common work-related dreams, along with having sex with a co-worker, being unprepared for a test and being naked at work. For me, the dreams were a wake-up call. I was so unhappy in my job that my negative feelings were seeping into my personal life, even when I was asleep. I looked for a new job and was fortunate enough to find something quickly, putting an end to my misery. But do work-anxiety dreams always mean it’s time to move on? I spoke to psychologist Jocelyn Brewer to find out more. How to make them stop Brewer’s advice to people experiencing work-anxiety dreams is to attempt to “de-clutter” your work worries. You can do this through journaling or sitting down to chat with a trusted friend. This process will help you to identify any issues that you can tackle head-on. “See if there are any real actions you can take to address [your worries]. Could you talk to your boss or access employee support services?” Brewer suggests. Brewer also notes that there is a link between “threat rehearsal theory” and REM sleep. “This means that your anxious dreams are a safer way of practicing dealing with a situation than real life, so your dreams throw a bunch of weird (and sometimes very normal) scenarios at you that you then deal with in REM sleep. “You might even need to ‘listen’ to the content of the dream and take actions to ensure the dream (or perhaps nightmare) doesn’t become a reality. This might be, set your alarm a bit earlier, lay out your clothes the night before, back up your work computer or technical aspects.” So should I quit my job? Are work-anxiety dreams a sign that it is time to brush off your CV and start looking for a new job? Not necessarily, says Brewer. “Certainly dreams are a way our brains signal to us a range of ideas — sometimes these are worth listening to and might provide insights or new ideas for solving problems, but in many cases, they’re simply just a collection of images scrambled together as your brain regenerates and re-balances.” Another thing to remember, according to Brewer, is that we only tend to remember dreams when REM sleep (the sleep stage in which most dreams occur) is disrupted (i.e.: we wake up mid-dream). You can stop this from happening by using a sleep cycle app to wake you up when you’ve finished dreaming. Take control Work-anxiety dreams can be awful and leave you feeling as if you’ve been at work all night. Brewer notes that although you can’t control your dreams you can control what happens in the hours between work and sleep. So if you are unsure what to do about work-anxiety dreams your best bet is to start by switching off more. “Have a clear routine which helps you disconnect from the mental and physical aspects of work,” says Brewer. “That might include getting out of your work clothes when you get home, not working on public transport on the way home or when you get home and exercising so that your body is more tired and the endorphins released during exercise have the opportunity to clear out the mental cobwebs.”
An Ohio police department took to Facebook this week with a faux advisory for meth users about the Zika virus. “WARNING: If you have recently purchased Meth in Preble, Montgomery, Darke or Butler Counties it may be contaminated with the Zika Virus,” the Gratis Police Department wrote. They added, “Please bring it to the Gratis Police Department and we will test it for free. If you’re not comfortable coming into our office, please contact us and we’ll test your Meth in the privacy of your home.” Gratis police later acknowledged that the drug is unable to host the virus. "We're just trying to keep things lighthearted and humanize the police department with some jokes," Assistant Chief Dennis Blankenship told Fox 45. "We're not doing it to arrest 100 people that are going to bring in meth. Drug addiction is a serious issue and I pride myself in helping people when it comes to that." Blankenship said the Facebook post, which has racked up more than 3,100 reactions and 800 comments as of Wednesday afternoon, wasn't intended to lead to arrests. But that didn't stop people from questioning the department's motive. MAN CAUGHT MASTURBATING TELLS COPS HE'S CAPTAIN KIRK FROM 'STAR TREK' “Isnt this entrapment?” a commenter asked. “Do you really think we're being serious and expect people to show up? Come on now. And if they do why do you care? It's more drugs off the street right," police replied. “I do not support or condone the use of this drug, and get that it’s a funny post. But wouldn’t this be considered entrapment. The police persuading you to do something you wouldn’t normally do in order to bust you?" another commenter said. “No,” police said. “You have to be persistent in attempting to persuade the person to commit the crime they otherwise wouldn’t be committing. But if they are already in possession of Meth then they are not committing any crime that they wouldn't already be committing.” Others had different takes on the situation. “Should be going after the dealers that’s distributing it and furthering addiction. Or how about the ones bringing it in to the dealers ?” “We are,” police replied. “Every single day.” But at least one Facebook user suggested police in the area have a bigger problem that needs to be addressed. “I don't live there, so I’m unaware of the meth problem. But after reading the posts, you’ve got a bigger problem on your hands. Seems those in your area suffer from a serious lack of humor," the user wrote.
Education Week reports on the wide range of states that are considering expanding school choice in their 2017 legislative sessions, and on a couple where opponents are trying to roll back the clock. EdWeek cites Arkansas, Arizona, Kentucky, Missouri and Texas as prime targets of opportunity for reformers. Meanwhile, lawmakers in Nevada are trying to rollback gains made in recent years, and Maryland Democrats are standing in the schoolhouse door against proposals by Republican Gov. Larry Hogan to expand choice. Read the whole thing here.
According to court documents, federal prosecutors working on behalf of Attorney General Eric Holder and the Department of Justice misled U.S. District Court Judge Richard Berman in the case against conservative filmmaker and author Dinesh D’Souza during their pursuit of 10-to-16 months of prison time for a federal felony charge. In a reply sentencing memo submitted to the Court on behalf of D'Souza last week, his counsel argues federal prosecutors excluded and misrepresented the facts of “similar” cases in the Government's sentencing proposal to Judge Berman, leaving out crucial facts key to fair and equal sentencing for D’Souza compared to other cases. The prosecution has a duty to present comparable cases and crimes when arguing for a prison sentence. In their presentation of “similar” cases to the Judge for consideration during his deliberation, the prosecution ignored all truly similar cases without prison time but did present cases that included prison time without a full set of facts to justify sentencing. “The Government, in this case, has chosen to consciously omit from its submission critical facts from most of the cases they cite which make it clear that those cases are substantially distinguishable from the facts in D’Souza’s prosecution,” the memo states. D’Souza’s counsel provided the court with a chart detailing “the 'limited’ facts from each case that the Government highlights” and then provided the missing facts the Government failed to include in order to avoid undermining their own argument against a prison sentence. With all the facts in place, the Government doesn’t have a case that adds up to a sentence that includes imprisonment. In the chart submitted to the Judge by D’Souza’s counsel, you’ll notice the “facts” on the left submitted to the Judge by the Government to be used for sentencing consideration. On the right, you’ll find the full facts of the case the Government deliberately failed to include. Below are three of eight examples provided. You can read the rest here. The prosecution's distortion of the facts in "similar cases" backs up long held suspicions that D’Souza was selectively prosecuted by the Department of Justice for political purposes and shows deceitful, malicious tactics being used to impose an unjust sentence. “To be candid, counsel were surprised to see that in the Sentencing Memorandum, the Government cavalierly treats and then distorts critical issues so important to the Court’s decision. In doing so, to the Government ironically provides further support for more vigorous prosecution and now, for more severe punishment than virtually any other defendant whose crime is ‘similar’ to that of Mr. D’Souza’s, especially when his case is devoid of any element of corruption or personal greed that is at the heart of every case the Government cites,” the memo states. “Indeed, so determined is the Government in its effort to convince your Honor to imprison Mr. D’Souza, that they supplied the Court with a list of cases in support of their argument on sentence parity, but did so in a manner that was disingenuous. When one carefully examines the facts in each and every one of the case cited by the government in support of their sentence parity argument, it soon becomes clear that prison was imposed in each of those cases for a variety of aggravating factors that have nothing whatsoever to do with the prosecution of Mr. D’Souza." The government failed to present any case, all facts included, comparable to D’Souza’s which involved illegally using two straw donors to donate a total of $20,000 to an ill-fated campaign. Back in May, D’Souza pled guilty to one count on federal charges detailed in an indictment accusing him of violating campaign finance laws and making false statements. D'Souza admitted in front of the Court that he did in fact ask two people to make contributions in their name and later reimbursed them, knowing it was not proper under the law. D'Souza submitted a plea deal on May 19 and the charge of making false statements was dropped. D’Souza’s defense team has argued that although criminally culpable, their client should not be imprisoned. D’Souza’s counsel has asked for a sentence of probation and community service. D'Souza is set for sentencing in the U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, today at 9 a.m. ET. Judge Berman said earlier this year he will consider D'Souza's character and history in his sentencing.
Charlotte Fox, a survivor of the deadly 1996 Mount Everest expedition, died last week after an apparent fall down the stairs at her Telluride, Colo., home. Fox, who was 61, was found dead on May 24 by friends who were staying with the climber for a “Mountainfilm” weekend. One of them, Kim Reynolds, told the Telluride Daily Planet that “finding her body was a very shocking and difficult thing.” HARSH LESSON IN REGULATION FOR BOYS RUNNING LEMONADE STAND “She gave me a gift when I arrived,” Reynolds said. “She recently had a birthday, and she told me, ‘I’m happy to be 61.’ … Those words, ‘I’m happy,’ might have gone right in and out of my ears if this hadn’t happened. … To be the last person with her, with my hands on her heart, and to remember those last words she said to me, I have to look at it as a privilege rather than a horror. … I got to send her off, with love.” San Miguel County Coroner Emil Sante said Tuesday he is waiting for results of a toxicology report and hasn’t yet released the cause and manner of death. Foul play is not suspected. Fox endured several tragedies over the course of her life. Her longtime boyfriend died in an avalanche in 1993 and her husband, Reese Martin, died in a paragliding accident in 2004, Rock and Ice reported. COLORADO GIRL INJURED IN BEAR ATTACK OUTSIDE HOME, OFFICIALS SAY Fox, a North Carolina native, made headlines after the tragedy on Mount Everest in 1996. She was one of the many climbers – in large groups, small groups and even some solo mountaineers – attempting to descend from the summit of Everest when they became caught in a blizzard. Eight climbers died and Fox told Jon Krakauer, who wrote “Into Thin Air” based on the incident, that she did not think she was going to survive, the Washington Post reported. “I didn’t see how we were going to get out of it alive,” Fox told Krakauer. “The cold was so painful, I didn’t think I could endure it anymore. I just curled up in a ball and hoped death would come quickly.” Fox was the first woman to climb three mountains “at altitudes of 8,000 meters or higher” after she reached Mount Everest’s summit. She continued climbing and even trekked up two more 8,000-meter mountains two years before her death. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Wisconsin Assembly set to approve $3 billion Foxconn incentive package The state Assembly is set Thursday to send Gov. Scott Walker a $3 billion incentive package to bring Foxconn Technology Group of Taiwan to Wisconsin. The governor and his fellow Republicans who control the Legislature have rallied behind the legislation as a way to bring thousands of jobs to Wisconsin and transform the state’s economy. Most Democrats have opposed it, saying it is too costly and includes too many environmental rollbacks for the technology company. The Assembly approved the package 59-30 last month, but must take it up again because the Senate adopted changes to it on Tuesday under a deal between leaders from both chambers. In the Senate, the deal – which is more than 10 times as big as any previous state subsidy to a private project in Wisconsin – passed 20-13, largely on party lines. Capital Times: Two months past deadline, Wisconsin Assembly approves state budget
NEW YORK (AP) — A top aide to Kim Jong Un will make a rare visit to Washington Friday to hand a letter from the North Korean leader to President Donald Trump, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said after reporting "good progress" in talks between the two sides to revive an on-again, off-again nuclear summit. "I am confident we are moving in the right direction," Pompeo told reporters at a news conference in New York after meeting Thursday with former North Korean military intelligence chief Kim Yong Chol. "Our two countries face a pivotal moment in our relationship, and it would be nothing short of tragic to let this opportunity go to waste." He would not say that the summit is a definite go for Singapore on June 12 and could not say if that decision would be made after Trump reads Kim Jong Un's letter. However, his comments were the most positive from any U.S. official since Trump abruptly canceled the meeting last week after belligerent statements from the North. The two countries, eying the first summit between the U.S. and the North after six decades of hostility, have also been holding negotiations in Singapore and the demilitarized zone between the two Koreas. Early Thursday, Trump told reporters "we are doing very well" with North Korea. He added there may even need to be a second or third summit meeting to reach a deal on North Korean denuclearization but still hedged, saying "maybe we'll have none." Kim Yong Chol is the highest-ranking North Korean official to visit the U.S. in 18 years, and his trip to the White House will be a highly symbolic sign of easing tensions after fears of war escalated amid North Korean nuclear and missile tests last year. Pompeo, the former CIA chief who has traveled to North Korea and met with Kim Jong Un twice in the past two months, said he believed the country's leaders are "contemplating a path forward where they can make a strategic shift, one that their country has not been prepared to make before." He tweeted from New York: "Good progress today during our meetings" with Kim and his team. Yet he also said at his news conference that difficult work remains including hurdles that may appear to be insurmountable as negotiations progress on the U.S. demand for North Korea's complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization. "We will push forward to test the proposition that we can achieve that outcome," he said. Pompeo spoke after meeting with Kim Yong Chol for a little more than two hours at the residence of the deputy U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. The talks had been expected to be held in two sessions, one in the morning and one in the early afternoon, and had not been expected to conclude until 1:30 p.m. Instead, the two men wrapped up at 11:25 a.m. Pompeo said they finished everything they needed to address in the morning session. Immediately afterward, he tweeted that he had had substantive talks on the priorities for the potential summit. Pompeo was accompanied by Andrew Kim, the head of a CIA unit assigned to work on North Korea, and Mark Lambert, the head of the State Department's Korea desk. "Our secretary of state is having very good meetings," Trump told reporters at Joint Base Andrews before departing on a trip to Texas. He said of the North Koreans, "I believe they will be coming down to Washington on Friday. A letter being delivered to me from Kim Jong Un. It is very important to them." "It is all a process," he said of arranging the summit. "Hopefully we will have a meeting on the 12th." Despite the upbeat messaging in the United States, Kim Jong Un, in a meeting with Russia's foreign minister on Thursday, complained about the U.S. trying to spread its influence in the region, a comment that may complicate the summit plans. "As we move to adjust to the political situation in the face of U.S. hegemonism, I am willing to exchange detailed and in-depth opinions with your leadership and hope to do so moving forward," Kim told Sergey Lavrov. North Korea's flurry of diplomatic activity following an increase in nuclear weapons and missile tests in 2017 suggests that Kim is eager for sanctions relief to build his economy and for the international legitimacy a summit with Trump would provide. But there are lingering doubts on whether he will ever fully relinquish his nuclear arsenal, which he may see as his only guarantee of survival in a region surrounded by enemies. Trump views a summit as a legacy-defining opportunity to make a nuclear deal, but he has left the world guessing since canceling the meeting last week in an open letter to Kim that complained of the North's "tremendous anger and open hostility." North Korea's conciliatory response to that letter appears to have put the summit back on track. Kim Yong Chol is the most senior North Korean visitor to the United States since Vice Marshal Jo Myong Rok visited Washington in 2000 to meet President Bill Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. That was the last time the two sides, which are technically at war, attempted to arrange a leadership summit. It was an effort that ultimately failed as Clinton's time in office ran out, and relations turned sour again after George W. Bush took office in early 2001 with a tough policy on the North. Kim Yong Chol, vice chairman of the North Korean ruling party's central committee, was allowed into the United States despite being on a U.S. sanctions list, and North Korean officials are not normally allowed to travel outside the New York area. The North Korean mission at the United Nations did not respond to an email seeking comment Thursday, and phone calls were not answered. ___ Lederman reported from Washington. Associated Press writers Christopher Bodeen in Beijing, Jonathan Lemire in Washington and Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations contributed.
By Dustin Hurst | for Watchdog.org Newsrooms struggle under tight budgets these days and sometimes have to find different ways to provide content to readers and followers. We get it. Times are tough and the news business reshapes itself daily. A latest example comes from our friends at Better Idaho, a progressive group fueled by union cash, along with bucks from radical environmentalists and billionaires like George Soros and Tom Steyer. Derek Farr, Better Idaho’s leading man, released a graphic Monday supporting Idaho’s $95 million tax and fee hike to pay for roads, intimating the idea’s opponents literally want bridges to fall down. Farr’s graphic fell, though. Flat on its face. Farr, an extreme environmentalist himself, deceptively edited a photo of a bridge in Connecticut to make his point. He cut out all identifying information and failed to explain the photo, which featured a road sign warning drivers of a bridge out of service. The bridge wasn’t actually out, though. A public official in Westport, Conn., told a news agency in 2013, when the picture hit the web, the Bayberry Lane bridge was completely safe for passage. The local government, though, wanted to repair some damage done by Hurricane Sandy, the storm that ravaged New York, New Jersey and other portions of the eastern seaboard in late 2012. For the record, to travel from Boise, Idaho, to the bridge Farr used in the photo would take 37 hours by car with no bathroom breaks. To be sure, Idaho’s bridges and roads need continued maintenance; no one argues that point. Despite what the pro-tax hike crowd says, the state didn’t need to take more money from Idaho families — particularly those in rural areas — to fund the maintenance. The state budget grew several hundred million dollars in the past five years and lawmakers couldn’t find a single dime for road repairs. Why? Anyway, in the spirit of friendship and tolerance and all those other feel-good buzzwords, I thought I might share a few graphics to help Better Idaho make its point that legislators needed to take more cash from Idaho families. After all, newsroom budgets are tight and a lame graphic from Connecticut might have been all Better Idaho could afford. Enjoy! Definitive proof Idaho’s bridges are crumbling: Don’t forget Idaho’s roads:
A man has a tattoo of Jared Leto's Joker from Suicide Squad applied to his torso during the Great British Tattoo Show at Alexandra Palace in London, England. The show hosts over 300 tattoo artists where members of the public can walk in and get a tattoo or watch others in the open exhibition space. Getty Images
Most holidays are a blend of recreation and dedicated purpose. If any American holiday should wear that title a little awkwardly in the mind, it is Memorial Day. Memorial service suggests the solemnity of a funeral, but Memorial day beckons many toward barbecues, softball, or maybe a trip to the lake. That is fitting, but those good things should not eclipse the moments of grace and gratitude the day was made for. Memorial Day is an occasion to honor those who gave all, to console or appreciate their families, and to think on the cause for which they died. A friend once observed something both simple and profound. It’s tempting to think of warriors as different from the rest of us, somehow feeling less pain or fear than ordinary people. But when we recognize that fighting men and women have the same feelings and desires we all do, we appreciate the real nature of their courage and sacrifice. This applies especially to those who sacrifice their lives. No one wants to die in combat. As awful as that is, the real sacrifice is not the moment of peril. It is the unknown life that was not lived, the unwritten chapters snatched away from a young person full of hope and full of future. I had occasion to ponder this more personally one day in the Colorado legislature as we honored fallen Navy Seal Danny Dietz. Sen. Mike Kopp, a former Seal himself, presented the memorial that spanned from Danny’s boyhood desire to be a Ninja, to his brave death on a ridge high in the mountains of Afghanistan. It was a rich life only starting to unfold. Years before, I had a similar sad privilege as I and my colleagues honored a young man whose name I’ve forgotten from the nearby town of Thornton. We learned about his youthful sports and high school crushes, his love of family and his love of the United States. And we silently imagined the pages he would never fill. Some things struck and stuck with me. On that morning, the approaching Memorial Day seemed less of a military remembrance than a societal tribute to the sacrifice of what might have been to defend freedoms and security we unite to protect. Second, it dawned that the United States has the most powerful military on earth because this young man volunteered to serve, and when ordered into duty, he was willing to go around the world and live in dirty, dangerous conditions, and fight. His family that loved him also supported his aspiration. It’s not just him, but millions of individuals from all walks of life in all corners of the nation that bear the burden. It is Americans. We the People: men and women, neighbors, classmates, siblings, children, parents, are willing to defend this nation. Their families stand behind them. And are left waiting and worrying behind. In a country as vast, prosperous and technologically advanced as the United States, it’s easy to think abstractly about the nation’s strength. Maybe it’s a consequence of a large population, or national GDP and resources, or astounding technology. But that gets things backwards. America is strong and secure because real people are willing to risk and defend her. Every man and woman who leaves their home, their neighborhood, their comforts, builds that strength. Every family who sustains the fighter’s commitment also support’s their nation’s strength. Memorial Day too, then, is an opportunity to remember the families who have lost loved ones. After each of those resolutions was read, the legislature temporarily adjourned to allow members to greet family. Lawmakers walked single-file past parents and siblings. I shook the father’s hand, and saw his wet eyes. I hugged the mother and saw her wet cheeks. It became sharply clear again. Our fallen soldiers are not “American” losses or statistics; they are not news about a distant tragedy. They are friends, brothers, children. They leave a hole in the fabric of their friends’ and families’ lives that cannot be filled. Their sacrifice spreads to be shouldered by others. Many of us know people who have lost loved ones. They too should be in our thoughts, and better, in our gestures. Finally, Memorial Day is an occasion to solemnly consider the unfinished work for which men and women gave the last full measure of devotion. The United States is unique among earth’s nations. It was conceived as an enterprise to secure men’s inalienable rights, including life, liberty and property. It was constituted and organized to secure justice, domestic tranquility, and the blessings of liberty. It is a striving, aspiring society that shed great blood over its flaws, and amended its charter a number of times to move closer to the ideal of liberty and justice for all. For some, that might be too sanguine, even jingoistic. Too eager to approve every conflict as embracing American ideals and advancing American interests. They too have a point. Memorial Day should be a time to consider the toll of war, the tearing of families, the historic rending of civil liberties. That debate, and its resolution also are part of the unfinished work of preserving government of the people, by the people, and for the people in the greatest nation God has yet allowed to flourish on the earth.
London’s Evening Standard newspaper sold favorable coverage to a number of companies, including tech giants Google and Uber, according to a report published by the watchdog group openDemocracy. From openDemocracy: London’s Evening Standard newspaper, edited by the former chancellor George Osborne, has agreed a £3 million deal with six leading commercial companies, including Google and Uber, promising them “money-can’t-buy” positive news and “favourable” comment coverage, openDemocracy can reveal. The project, called London 2020, is being directed by Osborne. It effectively sweeps away the conventional ethical divide between news and advertising inside the Standard – and is set to include “favourable” news coverage of the firms involved, with readers unable to differentiate between “news” that is paid-for and other commercially-branded content. According to the watchdog group, the Evening Standard plans to run “unbranded stories”, written by staff reporters, which are nonetheless “paid for by the new commercial ‘partners.'” Although the 2020 campaigns will involve branded, native and advertorial pages, along with public debates hosted by the Standard, the six partners have also been promised the Standard will carry “money-can’t-buy” positive news and “favourable” comment pieces that will appear to readers as routine, independently written editorial. Read the full report at openDemocracy. Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.
0:40 How this granny got her spine back At 85 years young, Anna Pesce discovered yoga, which transformed her life and her body. Anna suffered from decades of severe scoliosis and was even wheelchair-bound. But her fierce determination and diligent practice with back care specialist Rachel Jesien proved the remarkably transformative effects that yoga therapy can have on the body. 0:51 2016’s old folks who won at life These women prove you're never too old to win at life. Nelly Jacobs grew up riding horses, but when she started showing signs of Parkinson's disease in her early 50s, she had to give up her passion. Now, the wheelchair-bound woman has been given the opportunity to ride a majestic animal one last time. 0:32 This granny's got game! Not all seniors act their age. These vintage rockstars prove that age is just a number. Dalton Brown thought he was a pretty good basketball player, until his grandmother showed him her skills. The video of the game is going viral, and it's another example of why we should all respect our elders. 0:33 This 73-year-old granny is a sword-fighting force A 73-year-old Indian woman, Meenakshi Raghavan, is no ordinary grandmother. Nicknamed "Sword Granny," Meenakshi has been practicing martial arts for 66 years. She uses her skills to fight in front of huge crowds and to teach self-defense to children, women and even movie actors. 2:36 The bubble lady of Long Beach, California, is killing it For most people, bubbles are just a fun part of being outdoors in the summer. For Victoria Reynafarje, bubbles are her job, and she's pretty amazing at it.
This should be giving Democrats nightmares. A Republican ad for the midterm elections unveiled Tuesday is aiming directly at Democrats soft-spot for savagely criminal illegal aliens, and using the words of the party’s leader in the U.S. House of Representatives to do it. And it’s one truth that really hurts. The ad features video of California Democrat Nancy Pelosi criticizing President Donald Trump for referring to members of the MS-13 gang as “animals,” interspersed with television news coverage of MS-13’s brutal crimes. Pelosi, who doesn’s come across as very bright even on her best days, ends up looking particularly pitiful in the course of the one-minute ad. TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover “When the president of the United States says these aren’t people, these are animals, you have to wonder does he not believe in the spark of divinity?” she says. Actually, you have to wonder if Pelosi believes the words that come out of her own mouth. Check it out here: Leave aside the philosophical hypocrisy of a Democrat blathering about a human “spark of divinity” while championing the “right” to abort unborn children. On a logical level, what Pelosi was doing was using a deliberate deception by the mainstream media about what Trump actually said during a May 16 meeting with California law enforcement officials to smear his remarks as referring to all immigrants instead of the merciless killers of MS-13. Even worse, from a purely political point of view, Pelosi was taking a side most normal Americans disagree with, according to at least one poll. Could ads like this help Republicans hold onto the House? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. In short, Pelosi’s opinion wasn’t only morally abhorrent (which is pretty standard for the modern Democrat Party ), it’s also politically idiotic. And that’s what makes the ad work so well. As conservative commentator Ed Morrissey wrote on the website Hot Air: RELATED: CNN Interview Goes Wrong as Deported Illegal’s Wife Wrecks Media Narrative “Overall, Americans split 56/44 in support of using an ‘animals’ metaphor. The question splits young voters (under 35) down the middle, but all other age demos have solid majorities finding ‘animals’ a fair description of MS-13. It’s not popular among Hispanic voters, but only narrowly at 47/53, surprisingly. There’s almost no difference between urban, suburban, and rural voters on this question, all of which back it with majorities. Independents find it fair on a 55/45 basis, while only 25% of Republicans consider it unfair. ‘In other words, getting into semantic games over the use of a metaphor doesn’t look like a winner for Pelosi & Co, which is why the RNC rushed out its first attack ad on the subject. It won’t be the last, since Pelosi’s argument only wins significantly among African-Americans (35/65) and Democrats, but only 41/59. Pelosi’s argument isn’t even a slam dunk inside the fold, let alone outside of it.” So, with the prospect of Pelosi returning as speaker of the House if the Democrats win back control of the lower chamber in the November midterms, every competitive congressional district is likely to see ads like this. And that should mean some very uneasy nights for Democrats in the months ahead. Because this truth really does hurt — badly. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
You peruse the batting order, one-through-nine, and even on a night such as Wednesday, when Brett Gardner and Greg Bird both sat strategically against Houston lefty Dallas Keuchel, the Yankees are made to outlast a pitching staff. The concern, though, as the team continues its chase of the Red Sox and a division title that would thus avoid a wild-card knockout scenario, is that this offensive machine too often has to outlast — and outscore — its own pitching staff, particularly the starting rotation that has curled into a conglomerate unworthy of the trust connoted by its components. But there was no such concern in The Bronx for this one in which Luis Severino responded to the challenge of facing the defending world champions as the ace he has become. It was a no-muss, little-fuss 5-3 victory on a night where Severino’s stuff was so good, early-inning research on perfect games at the Stadium seemed appropriate. “His stuff … his command,” manager Aaron Boone fairly gushed after the Yanks had finished the season series with a 5-2 edge over the champs. “He was really sharp, really crisp. He mixed in his changeup with the fastball and slider. “The elite fastball in the mid to upper 90s sets it up. The slider goes forward for so long before a late dive. That’s why he’s an ace in this sport.” see also Severino dominates as Yankees take another series from Astros If the Yankees and Astros meet again this season, it... Severino is 8-1 with a 2.31 ERA, tied with Corey Kluber for the AL lead in victories. The Yankees have won 11 of his 12 starts. He struck out 11 while walking one in seven innings against Houston, one of the K’s coming on a 3-2 change to Carlos Correa that stranded Jose Altuve on first base in the fourth inning with the Yankees on top 1-0. “I’ve had confidence since last year,” said Severino, who fanned seven of the first nine Astros and retired the first 11 he faced before Altuve bounced one through the right side. “I think the change makes me a better pitcher. [Batters] have to think about a third pitch.” There are enough professional hitters on the roster, and even stuck in Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, to rake one-through-nine in the order and in the line score. You can’t run out the clock on the Yankees. You’ve got to get 27 outs. But the rules of baseball as they are, Yankees pitchers are also required to get 27 outs. This has been problematic, with so much of the job left to a bullpen that hasn’t quite been as impenetrable as envisioned over the winter. Then again, the starters are leaving an average of about 11 outs a night for the relief pitchers. Over the past 16 games, Yankees starters had pitched to a bloated 5.94 ERA while lasting an average of 5 ¹/₃ innings per. Subtract Severino’s four outings from the equation and the ERA becomes an even more obese 6.89 at just a tad over five innings per. They’d gone only 8-7 (plus a 5 ¹/₂-inning suspended game to be resolved in Washington on June 18) since their 17-1 spree climaxed on May 9. In other words, Boone and the Yankees were looking for some relief from their starter in this one. They got it while laying some hurt on Keuchel, the one-time nemesis on whom they laid some hurt in chasing him by scoring four runs in five-plus innings. Indeed, the Yankees have come out on top of this Severino-Keuchel matchup twice this season, the New York right-hander having gone the distance in a 4-0 victory in Houston on May 2. “I just want to win, compete and give a good game to my team,” Severino said. “They’re a great team. To be able to get the win is very nice.” Severino’s length provided some respite for the bullpen, with David Robertson tossing a scoreless eighth before Aroldis Chapman closed it after allowing a run in the ninth. It almost seemed like a day off. “In this stretch where we have 14 games in 13 days, you do look to your ace to carry the load,” Boone said before the final game of the homestand that precedes eight on the road in Baltimore, Detroit and Toronto. “You need him to go deep into the game not only to give you a really good chance to win that night but to preserve the bullpen. That adds up in the days ahead.” The Yankees are built to outscore all comers. They’d just rather not have to outscore their own pitching staff, as well. Wednesday, Severino made the issue moot.
President Trump officially singed the Right to Try Act of 2017 Wednesday afternoon at the White House, sparking hope and relief for people with terminal illnesses. "Each year, thousands of terminally ill patients suffer while waiting for new and experimental drugs to receive final FDA approval. It takes a long time, and the time is coming down. While we were streamlining and doing a lot of streamlining, the current FDA approval process can take, as Scott just said, many years -- many, many years. And for countless patients, time, it's not what they have. They don't have an abundance of time," Trump said. "With the Right to Try law I'm signing today, patients with life-threatening illnesses will finally have access to experimental treatments that could improve or even cure their conditions. These are experimental treatments and products that have shown great promise, and we weren't able to use them before. Now we can use them. And oftentimes they're going to be very successful. It's an incredible thing." "The Right to Try also offers new hope for those who either don't qualify for clinical trials or who have exhausted all available treatment options. There were no options, but now you have hope. You really have hope," he continued. According to the White House, "the bill amends Federal law to allow certain unapproved, experimental drugs to be administered to terminally ill patients who have exhausted all approved treatment options and are unable to participate in clinical drug trials" and "'Right to Try' gives the over 1 million Americans who die from a terminal illness every year a new tool to fight and make potentially lifesaving decisions about their treatment." The legislation requires "right to try" drugs to pass phase one of FDA testing before being used. With the #RightToTry Law I signed today, patients with life threatening illnesses will finally have access to experimental treatments that could improve or even cure their conditions. These are experimental treatments and products that have shown great promise... pic.twitter.com/FIUwhpUpoL — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 Moments ago, it was my great honor to sign #RightToTry into law! https://t.co/mtPiHsBc1H pic.twitter.com/hFtpyJlV4h — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 Earlier this month President Trump vowed to lower the price of prescription drugs as part of his administration's broader approach to healthcare policy. During his remarks at the White House, Trump said "right to try" legislation will help accomplish that goal. “I think people are going to see for the first time ever in this country a major drop in the cost of prescription drugs,” Trump said.
Richard Grenell was finally confirmed as the U.S. Ambassador to Germany last month after months of delay. Grenell has a been an outspoken supporter of President Trump, a longtime supporter of Log Cabin Republicans, and is now the highest ranking openly gay official in any Republican administration in American history. Richard Grenell joins Guy and Marie from Berlin to discuss his new role, how social media affects public policy, and Germany's reaction to the U.S. backing out of the Iran deal. On his new role as U.S. Ambassador to Germany: Its very exciting and humbling to be speaking for the U.S., the White House, the president, and the American people. I'm going to be less like a typical diplomat. I don't see myself doing a lot of ribbon cutting and ceremonial elitist stuff. I want to dig down into policy issues. It is surprising the degree to which you give up your life as a diplomat. It's life changing. (00:52) On how social media affects public policy: President Trump tapped into the silent majority by going around the traditional media. I try to go around the filter and go straight to the people. People don't have to write a letter and wait for a diplomat to write back. They can comment on Instagram or Twitter. I find it energizing because it makes me feel like I'm in touch and speaking for the silent majority. (6:44) On Germany's reaction to the U.S. pulling out of the Iran Deal: While they don't agree with our tactic, they agree with us on the goal. They talk about Iran as a threat and they are clear that something must be done. We're all focused on the goal. (10:09) On being the first openly gay ambassador appointed by a Republican president: It's not new to me I've been gay my whole life. (13:54)
Comparing a black person to an ape, as sitcom superstar Roseanne Barr did to former Obama White House adviser Valerie Jarrett on Tuesday, is a blatantly racist act and one that justified ABC’s decision to fire her and cancel her hit TV show Tuesday afternoon. This is not one of those situations, as we have seen so often with the likes of a Rush Limbaugh, where the outrage is manufactured by the left into a witch hunt that allows people to pretend to be injured as a means to ruin or de-platform a political opponent. Comparing a black person to an ape (and contrary to the rumors on Twitter, Jarrett is black), is a bona fide act of racism. Barr was not being crude or anti-PC or edgy. Barr wasn’t poking the “snowflakes” or pushing the boundaries of free speech. She publicly attacked a black woman with a racist slur. Therefore, the rage and hurt over this is not manufactured because what Barr did was both outrageous and hurtful; which means that what ABC was dealing with after the tweet was a whole new world, a world that had changed entirely after millions of ABC’s customers discovered Roseanne Barr — someone they might have looked up to since childhood, someone whose work they enjoyed, someone who they recognized as a cultural leader — was capable of saying such a terrible thing. Just like the NFL’s perfectly justifiable decision to ban behavior that hurts the bottom line and the institution’s reputation, ABC Television is a business, and if their biggest star has just dropped a game-changer that forever alters the way the customers look at their biggest star, and by extension, the business of ABC itself, what choice did ABC have? And let’s give ABC some credit. Until Barr crossed the line, the network stood by her. Her Trump support, some of the controversial things she has tweeted in the past, ABC did stand up for her right to hold and share opinions, no matter how controversial to the establishment, when she was outside the workplace. Barr’s racist “ape” comment is not a free speech issue. Outside of costing the network customers, imagine the disruption internally at ABC. If the network kept Roseanne on the air, kept Barr as a star, what effect would that have had on the network’s black employees — both talent and crew? What does it say to them if such a thing is tolerated? What Roseanne wrote about Jarrett is indefensible, is racist, and is legitimately hurtful to millions of decent people. I am glad Barr apologized, and, like every one of us, after some time has passed, she deserves a second chance. Moreover, I certainly understand the frustration of knowing that homophobes like Joy Reid and Alec Baldwin still have a job at NBC, that an anti-Christian bigot like Joy Behar is still working at ABC… Yes, the hypocrisy and bigotry on the left are very real and very galling — no question. Yes, there is a double standard. Yes, there is a caste system enforced by the establishment media. Yes, yes, yes. But that does not change the fact that what Roseanne Barr did cannot be defended. And let me add this closing thought. I am furious at Roseanne Barr, seething mad… Not only for what she tweeted, but over the fact that we finally got one over on Hollywood’s blacklist against conservatives and conservative ideas, we finally had a top-rated TV show that took our ideas seriously, a monster hit, a cultural game changer… And in just a few months Roseanne Barr fucked it all up, lost it all. Shame on her. What she said was racist and indefensible. This is ALL on her, not ABC. Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. NEW YORK — “Kill, rape, control.” Not even these words — the actual mission statement of the notorious MS-13 street gang — could trigger the Democratic Left’s unanimous and unconditional disdain. Fresno County Sheriff Margaret Mims, a guest at a May 16 White House roundtable on the dangers of California’s fugitive cities, complained to President Donald J. Trump: “There could be an MS-13 member that I know about,” but Golden State law prohibits her from alerting Immigration and Customs Enforcement. “You wouldn’t believe how bad these people are,” a frustrated Trump replied. “These aren’t people.These are animals.” Democrats and their sentries in the Left-wing media raced to their battle stations. They immediately lied about Trump’s comment and claimed that he referred to immigrants in general as “animals.” Of course, the president did no such thing. After conservative commenters blew their referee whistles at maximum volume, several media outlets conceded as much. As anyone who watched this event on live TV understood, the only “animals” Trump condemned were members of Mara Salvatrucha-13, a transnational criminal organization largely populated by Salvadoran illegal aliens. Some of MS-13’s men have breached America’s southern “border” over and over and over again. Also, Trump’s very specific description of MS-13 is precedented. These hoodlums have “transformed peaceful parks and beautiful quiet neighborhoods into blood-stained killing fields,” Trump told Long Island, New York, law-enforcement officials on July 28, 2017.“They’re animals.” Still, corrected or not, the Left’s default response remained in fifth gear: If Trump’s against it, they’re for it — even though MS-13’s savagery makes the Mafia look like the Rotary Club. • Senate Democrat leader Chuck Schumer of New York said this, via Twitter: “When all of our great-great-grandparents came to America they weren’t ‘animals,’ and these people aren’t either.” • “Immigrants are not ‘animals,’” Senator Dianne Feinstein (D – California) announced. “The president’s statement was deeply offensive andracist. Immigrants are our family and friends, and they make significant contributions to our country.” • “When the president of the United States says about undocumented immigrants, ‘These aren’t people, these are animals’ — you have to wonder, does he not believe in the spark of divinity, the dignity and worth of every person?” House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California asked journalists on Capitol Hill. “Every day that you think you’ve seen it all, along comes another manifestation of why [the Trump administration’s] policies are so inhumane.” • Rep. Joe Crowley (D – New York) called Trump’s words “disgusting” and added a classic “to be sure…” statement. “Regardless of what they’re about,” Crowley insisted, “they’re still human beings.” • CNBC’s John Harwood also rode to the rescue of these bloodthirsty killers. As he declared via Twitter: “However repugnant their actions, MS-13 gang members are human beings IMHO.” • Rolling Stone’s national-affairs writer Tim Dickinson excoriated Trump’s comment as “the language of ethnic cleansing and genocide.” • One liberal’s response spun around and bit her like a cobra. CNN contributor Ana Navarro slammed Trump in the ugliest terms imaginable. “Trump is in very bad company,” she stated via Twitter. “Nazis referred to Jews as ‘rats.’ Slave-owners viewed slaves as sub-human animals.” But Fox News Channel’s Tucker Carlson bathed Navarro’s hypocrisy in sunlight when he recalled what Navarro said of Trump in October 2016: “Should Donald Trump drop out of the race? Yes. He should drop out of the human race. He is an animal.” Trump’s tormentors also were exposed as fools last Wednesday when East Boston MS-13 member Joel Martinez, a 23-year-old Salvadoran native, received a 40-year prison sentence for fatally stabbing Irvin Javier de Paz Castro, 15, in a September 2015 initiation test. Martinez’s MS-13 nickname? “Animal.” Even more stunning is the fact that Democrats — the reputed Party of Women, the guardians of Girl Power, and the pumping heart of the #MeToo Movement — rushed to defend these barbarians. Caleb Howe’s op-ed in May 17’s USA Today offered chilling proof of MS-13’s misogynistic carnage. So did a May 22 White House document unapologetically titled, “What You Need to Know about the Violent Animals of MS-13.” (Rather than dive like RINOs beneath their desks as this controversy erupted, President Trump’s valiant press team called MS-13 “animals” 10 times in their hard-hitting communiqué.) Can you detect the sparks of divinity in these acts? • Police say that MS-13 members in Long Island, New York, attacked Kayla Cuevas, 15, and Nisa Mickens, the latter on the eve of her 16th birthday. Their weapons: a machete and baseball bats. “These murders show a level of brutality that is close to unmatched,” Suffolk County Police Commissioner Timothy Sini said of the September 2016 slayings in Brentwood, New York. “Some of the worst that I’ve ever seen.” • Maryland authorities blame MS-13 for attacking a 15-year-old victim of human trafficking. Cops say that the MS-13 animals took turns pummeling her with a baseball bat, some 30 times. • Two MS-13 thugs in Houston were indicted for kidnapping and sexually assaulting one girl and killing another. According to the White House document, “The two MS-13 animals laughed, smiled, and waved for cameras in court as they faced the charges.” • Two illegal-alien members of MS-13 allegedly murdered a 15-year-old girl, known as Genesis, on February 16, 2017. Police say that Miguel Angel Alvarez-Flores and Diego Hernandez-Rivera shot her at close range, in the chest and the head, and then tossed her body on a street in Houston’s Chinatown. Genesis was one of three females held captive in an apartment with six MS-13 animals. Two of the women survived. In an even more bizarre twist, Alvarez-Flores, AKA Diabolico, killed Genesis as a sacrifice to his shrine of Satan. According to prosecutors, Alvarez-Flores said before diabolically murdering Genesis: “The beast did not want a material offering, but wanted a soul.” • In April 2017, Long Island police say, MS-13 members fatally beat four males with wooden clubs. The cadavers of the victims, aged 16 to 20, then were slaughtered with machetes. As CNN reported, MS-13 inflicted psychological trauma on a woman, atop their physical destruction of these four men: “Video of the mutilated bodies was sent to a girlfriend of one of the victims.” • “The gang has their own detectives, so if you don’t cooperate, they will find and kill your family in El Salvador, or Honduras or any other place. Or they will rape your daughters, girlfriends, sisters,” a former MS-13 member, masked as “Speedy,” told the New York Post’s Isabel Vincent last June 10. “If a father doesn’t want to cooperate with us, they will do something to his daughter,” Speedy added. “If a gang member was interested in a girl he saw, he would rape her and claim her as property.” Democrats are focused like electron microscopes on two key objectives: first, resist President Trump from every angle, no matter the wisdom, justice, or necessity of whatever he says or does; and second, keep the southern frontier open, to replenish the supply of mainly Hispanic immigrants. The Donkey Party craves these “Future Democrats of America.” If these goals require Democrats and liberals to throw women under the bus — even to MS-13’s advantage — then under the bus the women will be thrown.
Sharing and preserving family recipes is one of the many ways the legacies of loved ones who have passed on are remembered. My great-grandmother’s recipe for pineapple upside down cake is one that the women in my family pass down to the younger generations, usually along with their first cast iron skillet. Some families have secret ingredients, while others just have traditional recipes that are made during the holidays that are passed around via a handwritten recipe card. Famous historical figures, like many of us, also had family recipes and here are just six of them that were passed on through the generations. TRENDING: Mother Cries Tears of Joy After Daughter Who Went Missing 24 Years Ago is Found George Washington’s ‘Small Beer’ Recipe In 1757, George Washington wrote this recipe for small beer (low alcohol content) in his notebook. #NationalBeerDay https://t.co/3A8v6uMrSw pic.twitter.com/WtHPAeRT6w — Presidential Trivia (@triviapotus) April 7, 2018 George Washington wrote his “small beer” recipe in his 1757 military journal, and Budweiser used the handwritten instructions and secret ingredient of molasses as inspiration for their 2018 limited-edition Patriotic beer. According to the New York Public Library, Washington’s recipe instructs brewers to let the beer “stand til it is little more than Blood warm” and later “cover it over with a Blanket.” Thomas Jefferson’s First Ice Cream Recipe Here’s Thomas Jefferson’s vanilla ice cream recipe that I talked about on air w/ Phlash…https://t.co/ayDMDATfMf 🍨 pic.twitter.com/X7YDJkd4Dr — Janine Stange (@THEANTHEMGIRL) April 14, 2016 Although Thomas Jefferson cannot be credited with introducing ice cream to the United States, he does have the first known recipe recorded in the country. Written by Jefferson himself, the recipe calls for two bottles of “good cream,” egg yolks, and sugar. The recipe says to put the ingredients “on a fire in a casserole” and to stir it thoroughly so that the mixture doesn’t stick to the sides. After the mixture reaches boiling, the baker has to “strain it thro’ a towel” and “put it in the Sabottiere,” an old French ice cream maker. RELATED: Grandfather Helps Grandson with Marriage Proposal by Plowing Note into Field Emily Dickinson’s Coconut Cake Talented poet Emily Dickinson felt the most comfortable in the kitchen “and her letters give frequent testimony to the pleasures of family conversation held there,” according to the Emily Dickinson Museum. This recipe shows Dickinson’s use of Caribbean coconut in the midst of the changing global market. Dickinson had scribbled the start of a poem on the back of the recipe. Rosa Parks’ ‘Featherlite Pancakes’ This is Rosa Parks’ recipe for “featherlite pancakes,” written on the back of an envelope https://t.co/COKmMAY4X9 pic.twitter.com/MNftCEBkYa — Erin Ruberry (@erinruberry) May 9, 2017 Written on the back of a banking envelope, Rosa Parks penned this pancake recipe while money was tight for the civil rights activist and her husband in 1957. According to NPR, the recipe was written after she took her stand by refusing to give up her bus seat and lost her job because of it. Parks’ secret pancake ingredient is 1/3 cup of melted peanut butter. Ernest Hemingway’s ‘Papa’s Favorite Wild West Burger’ For #nationalburgerday, here’s Ernest Hemingway’s recipe for his favourite burger: pic.twitter.com/KGdilxYoGc — Literary Interest (@InterestingLit) August 25, 2016 Ernest Hemingway was known to spend entire paragraphs describing food in his novels. This recipe shows that he was just as particular with the food he consumed, noting on this particular piece of paper that “There is no reason why a fried hamburger has to turn out gray, greasy, paper-thin and tasteless.” The burger recipe calls for nine different ingredients to be mixed into lean ground beef — minced garlic, green onions, India relish, capers, Spice Islands mei yen powder, soy sauce and wine — and a handwritten note adds that grated cheddar should also be added to the mixture. Julia Child’s Pain De Mie This recipe for a type of soft French bread called Pain de Mie comes straight from the kitchen of Julia Child. The chef’s recipe calls for cold milk and room temperature milk. Do you have any favorite recipes that have been passed down for generations, or do you want to try one of these? Share with us in the comments below! Submit your story here, and subscribe to our best uplifting stories here. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Liberals will be shocked to hear this. Yes, I finally agree. You’ve won over Wayne Root with evidence and common sense. It’s time to impeach the president. However, it’s not President Trump I’m talking about. It’s time to impeach former President Barack Obama. And of course, prosecute him too. Many are starting to come to this conclusion. Tom Fitton, the legal genius behind Judicial Watch (the number one government watchdog in America), has come to the same conclusion. Fitton said this week that amidst a climate of impeachment fervor, the actual evidence points to Obama’s actions warranting impeachment far more than Trump. Fitton reports that ordering surveillance and sending spies into the Trump presidential campaign are all grounds for post-Presidency impeachment and more importantly, prosecution. None other than greatly respected former White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer said this week, “I guarantee the answer is yes” as to whether Obama knew the FBI had planted spies into the Trump campaign. He says no FBI Director would dare infiltrate a presidential campaign without the direct approval and authorization of the sitting president. Welcome to my world. I’ve screamed about Obama’s illegal actions for years. Starting of course with his attempt to use the IRS to destroy my life. But I’m just one of thousands of victims. I have always understand the lengths Obama would go to, to destroy his political opposition. Obama didn’t just authorize illegal spying, surveillance and FISA warrants based on fraud, paid for by Hillary and the DNC. He ordered it all. Somehow this must all be getting through. Despite 93% negative news coverage from the mainstream media, President Trump is sitting pretty at 50% approval at Rasmussen (the most accurate pollster of the 2016 election). More shockingly, Reuters generic Congressional poll has shifted from Democrats winning by 16 points back in February, to Republicans up by 6 points this week. YES, I said Republicans are now leading by 6 points. That’s a 22-point swing in a matter of months. And a 9-point swing in a week. The supposed “blue wave” is finished. Why do you think this is? Because the average American now understands what happened. It isn’t Trump who did anything wrong. He was clearly framed by Obama, Hillary and their minions in the DC Swamp (FBI, DOJ, CIA and NSA). But far worse is the reason for the framing. First, Obama had a personal hatred and obsession with Trump- for daring to ask questions about Obama’s birth certificate, place of birth and college records. Second, Obama was on the hook for his own crimes: spying, surveillance, criminal weaponization of government agencies like the IRS. And he was also on the hook for allowing Hillary’s crimes, including the Uranium One deal, where the Clinton Foundation received $140 million in donations from Russia. But that was only one of many corrupt deals while Hillary served as Obama’s Secretary of State. Jay Sekulow of the American Center for Law and Justice reported days ago his organization has uncovered THOUSANDS of docs showing Pay-to-Play between Hillary’s State Dept and the Clinton Foundation. He called Hillary’s State Dept a “favor factory.” Sekulow found 30,000 emails between Hillary, her top staff and the Clinton Foundation. This is crime on a massive unprecedented scale. The State Dept became a division of a private company (a charity scam), using taxpayer money to dole out government contracts to Hillary's donors. How much money changed hands? Billions? How many crooked deals? Hundreds? How many other members of Obama’s administration got cut in on the bribes? Could President Obama have had a piece of the action? Obama desperately needed Hillary to win, or he’d face criminal prosecution. Remember what Truman said, “The buck stops here.” And then there was this news: Wikileaks reports Obama was a veteran of illegal spying. They claim to have proof Obama ordered the CIA to spy on all of France’s presidential candidates. Who else did Obama spy on? What other world leaders did he try to frame just like Trump? How about American politicians, like his 2012 opponent Mitt Romney? Obama and Hillary tried to fix the 2016 election. Is it possible Obama fixed the 2012 election with spying and surveillance vs. Romney? Yes, the media is right. It’s time to start talking about impeachment and prosecution of a president. Obama.
The Tennessee Telecommunications Association supports a bill pushed by Gov. Bill Haslam that would help bridge the rural broadband divide through tax credits and allowing electric cooperatives to offer internet and video services. H.B. 529, which is sponsored by 20 Republicans and will be heard in the House Business and Utilities Committee on Wednesday after a week delay, would deregulate Tennessee’s 23 electric cooperatives for the purpose of providing broadband and cable services to their customers. That bill previously passed the House Business and Utilities Subcommittee by a 13-0 vote and is expected to pass the full committee and be sent to the Tennessee House for a vote. Companion bill S.B. 1215 has been referred to the Senate Finance, Ways and Means Committee. Levoy Knowles, executive director of the TTA, told Watchdog.org in a statement that “members of the Tennessee Telecommunications Association support the Governor’s efforts to bring broadband to rural Tennesseans who remain without service.” Not all members of the groups stand united in support of the measure. Jonathan Harlan, founder and CEO of TTA associate member Aeneas Communications LLC, based in Jackson, previously told Watchdog he’s against the bill due to concerns about the advantages electric co-ops have gained through lower property taxes and government grants. He and other providers told Watchdog the recent political climate in Tennessee, with the possibility of municipal networks being allowed to expand or for co-ops to offer service, has had a chilling effect, making smaller providers wary of growing into certain areas. “We have other cities in which we want to build in west Tennessee, but now I have to consider whether utility companies are going to be my competitor,” Harlan said. RELATED: Tennessee internet providers wary of bill allowing co-ops to offer broadband The members of TTA, a nonprofit industry trade group that represents both private and cooperative providers of telephone and internet services, have installed more than 12,000 miles of fiber and provide broadband to more than 136,000 rural residents of Tennessee, Knowles noted. “As providers of high-speed broadband and fiber to many parts of rural Tennessee, we know there are still places that need to get connected,” he said. “Our position is to address the coverage gaps first and provide broadband to all Tennesseans.” Knowles added that the TTA welcomes the governor’s plan to offer $45 million in grants and tax credits to help facilitate rural broadband expansion. The bill would provide $10 million in grants per year for three years and $5 million in tax credits on the purchase of equipment for broadband construction over the same duration. Johnny Kampis reports on national issues for Watchdog.org. Contact him at jkampis@watchdog.org and on Twitter.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. As the immigration debate hit another low last week, I received the news that my favorite immigrant died: my father-in-law, Paul Gavora. I don't want to politicize Paul's story too much, or really at all. For me, the man wasn't a talking point; he was a hero. Still, one of the things about today's immigration debate that breaks my heart is how both sides have lost the plot. There are legitimate policy arguments on all sides, but the story of immigration is getting slaughtered in the crossfire. Consider my father-in-law. Born Vladimir Gavora in 1931, in the then-Czechoslovakian (today just Slovakian) village of Brezova pod Bradlom, Vlad grew up fast. When he was 7, the Germans invaded. When he was 13, his father died. The same year, the Red Army moved in. He saw things then he didn't like to talk about. In 10th grade, he was expelled for questioning Communist doctrine in class. In his day, it was the teachers who were snowflakes. Expulsion slammed a door on any future he might have had at home. So in 1948, he swam the Danube by moonlight to escape the Communists. He made it to an Austrian refugee camp, where they sent him to Germany to finish high school. Colorado State University offered him a scholarship. To get there, he signed on as a hand on a United Nations refugee ship. During a storm of biblical proportions, he was tasked with preventing panicking passengers from rushing to the top deck for air. He was tied to the railing and given a billy club to beat the passengers back -- for their own good. In college, he changed his name to Paul and met his saintly wife, Donna. He soon transferred to the University of Chicago, where he worked as a milkman while pursuing a joint bachelor's-master's degree under Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman. When he heard about a teaching job at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, he and a pregnant Donna packed their three young children in a car and drove north and west. Alas, when he got to still-territorial Alaska, the job fell through. So he returned to his vocation as a milkman. Eventually, he scrimped and borrowed enough money to open a small grocery store of his own in Fairbanks. Then he opened another. Eventually he had seven supermarkets, Fairbanks' first shopping mall and a wholesale food business that supplied native villages and the Russian far east alike. He also had nine children and invested his time, money and love into his community. Opinions will differ about the takeaway of Paul's story. For me, one of the most important things is not that he got rich. It's that the United States gave him a shot to carve out the life that he wanted -- and he remained grateful for the opportunity his whole life. Peter Schramm, another immigrant, and a scholar and friend (who passed away not long ago) often told the story of his family's escape from Hungary after the failed 1958 uprising. "We are going to America," Peter's father told him. "Why America?" Peter prodded. "Because, son. We were born Americans but in the wrong place." Today the conversation about immigration is so toxic in part because we poisonously disagree about what it means to be an American. Thanks to the identity politics of the left and the right, immigrants are increasingly cast either as imported victims ready-made to join the Coalition of the Oppressed or invading "takers," "rapists" and even "animals." If White House adviser Stephen Miller has his way, the children of immigrants would be seen as a terrorism threat, which might explain why the Trump administration is snatching babies from their mothers at the border. Of course there's a kernel of truth to both sides' awful shouting points on immigrants, but they crowd out the greater truth: Most immigrants, even those who are in the country illegally, aren't animalistic members of MS-13, nor are they eager to be props for the latest campus debate about intersectionality. Neither victims nor villains, they are human beings desperate to make the most of the American dream as they see it. That's the immigration story in America: people leaving -- or fleeing -- the places of their birth for the freedom to try their best. No party owns that story. But each can abandon it.
President Trump jumped head first into a bitter Republican congressional primary on Staten Island — endorsing incumbent Rep. Dan Donovan over his predecessor, convicted tax cheat Michael Grimm. “There is no one better to represent the people of N.Y. and Staten Island (a place I know very well) than @RepDanDonovan, who is strong on Borders & Crime, loves our Military & our Vets, voted for Tax Cuts and is helping me to Make America Great Again. Dan has my full endorsement!,” Trump said in a surprise Wednesday night tweet. But Trump’s initial endorsement tweet of Donovan was not entirely accurate. In fact, Donovan voted against the Trump-inspired tax reform law last December, arguing new restrictions on deductions of state and local taxes would hurt many of his constituents. Still, Trump said Donovan was a safer choice than Grimm to win the general election than Grimm. “Very importantly,@RepDanDoovan will win for the Republicans in November . . and his opponent will not,” Trump said. “Remember Alabama. We can’t take any chances on losing to a Nancy Pelosi controlled Democrat!” Trump was comparing convicted felon Grimm to Alabama’s disgraced GOP senatorial candidate Roy Moore, who lost his election to Democrat Roy Moore following numerous accusations of sexual misconduct. Donovan, a three-term district attorney ran for the congressional seat after Grimm, an ex-FBI agent and Marine, was forced to step down in 2015 after pleading guilty to tax evasion in connection with a Manhattan restaurant business he ran. Grimm was quick to point Donovan’s votes against the president. “All the endorsements in the world can’t change the facts: Donovan has failed to pass even one substantive bill into law, and has voted against President Trump every time it’s mattered – from failing to repeal Obamacare, to banning sanctuary cities, and even against tax cuts,” Grimm said in a tweet. Donovan was thrilled. “JUST IN: President Trump endorsed our campaign! As fellow New Yorkers this is very exciting news. We’re excited to continue working together for the American people. Join President Trump and endorse Dan here,” Donovan tweeted.
WASHINGTON (AP) — Senior Environmental Protection Agency officials have been working closely with a conservative group that dismisses climate change to rally like-minded people for public hearings on science and global warming. Recently released emails show they also recruited help to counter negative news coverage and tout Administrator Scott Pruitt's stewardship of the agency. John Konkus, EPA's deputy associate administrator for public affairs, repeatedly reached out to senior staffers at the Heartland Institute. Emails show Konkus and the Heartland Institute mustering scores of potential invitees known for rejecting scientific warnings of man-made climate-change. The emails were released after a lawsuit by environmental groups under the Freedom of Information Act.
When Carole King wrote “winter, spring summer or fall, all you’ve got to do is call,” this can’t be what she had in mind. But the plethora of examples of the overweening regulatory state makes clear that no matter the season, bureaucrats and neighborhood nannies who want to run your life are always on the job. It was autumn in New Jersey. New Jersey has leaves. They fall. But if you want to avoid a little muscle ache by employing a leaf blower instead of a rake, get ready to do battle with the powers that be. Neighborhood advocacy groups in Maplewood and Princeton complain that, like Marty McFly’s band in “Back to the Future,” the infernal contraptions are just too darn loud. Maplewood banned the summer use of leaf blowers by commercial businesses earlier this year. Now Princeton is seeking to follow suit for fall, and Maplewood is looking to expand its ban. Existing regulations designed to keep the noise down to a reasonable level are not good enough. Princetonians want silence. “No one would think this reasonable,” Tony Lunn, an activist with the group Quiet Princeton, told Mercer Space, a publication of Community News Service. Reasonableness, of course, is in the eye of the beholder. Or, in this case perhaps, in the back of the beholder. A prohibition limited to commercial leaf blowers puts the burden – literally – on the employees of landscaping companies, rather than on Joe Springsteen clearing his own yard. That drives up the cost of landscaping work if Joe hires somebody, while adding considerably to the physical toll on the manual laborers actually doing the work. And rest assured, not many of them can afford to live in Maplewood, where the median household income is more than $100,000 per year. This seems to be a thing in New Jersey. Last January, Gov. Chris Christie signed into law a bill making it legal for New Jersey residents to offer snow shoveling services without first registering with their town. Truly, a great moment in individual liberty. The law took effect just days before a blizzard hit the East Coast. It was inspired by the case of two entrepreneurial teens who had gone door-to-door the previous winter offering to shovel snow for a small fee. Cops in the borough of Bound Brook told the two boys they were not allowed to solicit businesses without a permit, which cost $450 for six-months. At least if it snows in New Jersey this winter, kids can now make a buck shoveling it for you. Lest anyone think this is a New Jersey-only phenomenon, let’s move on to springtime, when a young man’s fancy turns to … lemonade. Texans pride themselves on their history of individual liberty. But in the liberal enclave of Austin, things are a little different – even if you’re a kid trying to sell lemonade. City officials graciously established “Lemonade Day” in May as a one-time parole for miscreant lemon squeezers to hawk their wares without fear of sanction. On that day, you still have to register, but the usual $35 to obtain a “temporary food permit” is waived, and so is the $425 for “a license agreement and fees” to use public property, according to the Institute for Justice, which has represented the pint-sized purveyors. The rest of the year, lemonade stands are governed by grown-up rules that bar home-prepared foods (kind of defeating the purpose of a front-yard lemonade stand), require a ceiling or canopy above prep areas, and prohibit eating, drinking and smoking – in case your six-year-old wants to light up between squeezes – in the selling area. But at least the lazy, hazy, crazy days of summer are free from such nonsense. Right? Wrong. This past summer witnessed an attempt by officials in Rehoboth Beach, Del., to ban pools. It was, to say the least, something of a surprise to many in the seaside resort town, which prospers by catering to the needs of its more than 100,000 summer visitors. But, facing complaints from year-round residents about too much noise – maybe they could replace the pools with leaf blowers — city officials walked up to the edge of the pool, stuck their toe in, then decided not to jump. Property owner Rebecca Howland told Delaware Online “there is clearly a tinge of hysteria based on anecdotal testimony.” City officials ultimately decided against the ban – after word of the proposal went viral and more than 1,000 people showed up to protest. Rehoboth Mayor Sam Cooper was nevertheless sure he was right. “I have a vision of Rehoboth,” he told the Washingtonian. “If you’re outside of that, then we’re going to have issues.” And that, in a nutshell, is the problem. For no matter the season, the nannies are watching you. And they are always absolutely sure they are right.
When Vanity Fair publisher Chris Mitchell and Condé Nast Traveler editor-in-chief Pilar Guzmán bought their dream getaway at 62 Dunemere Lane in East Hampton in 2013, they had no idea what they were getting into. “We love old houses. But there wasn’t a right angle in the entire house. Every floor and doorway sloped. It didn’t have a foundation,” Mitchell says of the 1890s-built labor of love. The couple eventually added a foundation and carefully restored every aspect of the home, while also incorporating elements of modern Danish design. The work took nearly three years and expenditures “into the seven figures.” Still, Mitchell says it was worth saving a piece of Hamptons history from the wrecking ball. “The only other bidder on the house [when we bought it] was a developer who was going to knock it down,” he says. Now, after their detailed overhaul — which saved all of the original doors and windows but added contemporary fixtures, bathrooms and closets — there is no chance of the home being razed, and they’ve decided to sell for $12.5 million. In Sag Harbor, in an enclave of historic village homes, another buyer spotted a diamond in the rough in need of preservation. The interior-designer owner of 39 Suffolk St., a sailor’s home from the 1830s, poured generous amounts of cash into the property — saving every scrap of period detail possible, according to listing broker Rylan Jacka of Sotheby’s International Realty. The four-bedroom, four-bathroom house, with its original support beams, windows, wide-plank floors and a modern kitchen, is now on the market asking $4.9 million. A slice of history in the making.
Fresh off his announcement Thursday morning that he will issue conservative filmmaker Dinesh D'Souza a full pardon, President Trump told reporters on Air Force One he's considering pardons or commutations for a number of other people as well. “There’s another one that I’m thinking about. Rod Blagojevich. Eighteen years in jail for being stupid and saying things that every other politician, you know that many other politicans say, "Trump said, according to the White House pool report. "I don’t know him other than that he was on The Apprentice for a short period of time. Eighteen years is I think really unfair. It’s a Democrat. You know D’Souaz's a Republican. And I’m seriously thinking about it...not pardoning – but I am seriously thinking of a curtailment [commutation] of Blagojevich.” "What he did does not justify eighteen years in a jail. If you read his statement it was a foolish statement there was a lot of bravado...but it does not...plenty of other politicians have said a lot worse. And it doesn’t, he shouldn’t have been put in jail," he continued. "And he’s a Democrat. He’s not my party. But I thought that he was treated unfairly." Former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich is currently serving a prison sentence at a federal prison in Colorado. He was impeached from office in 2011 for wire fraud, extortion and bribery after being caught on tape trying to sell a U.S. Senate seat. His incarceration release date is set for 2024. "There are others," he continued. "I think to a certain extent Martha Stewart was harshly and unfairly treated. And she used to be my biggest fan in the world...before I became a politician. But that’s okay I don’t view it that way." Business mogul Martha Stewart served five months in federal prison after being convicted of insider trading in 2004.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. “The Fuhrer’s swastika is today Israel’s banner!”(Fidel Castro, June 2010.) “Gal Gadot is on board to produce and possibly star in a movie based on Peter Kornbluh’s Politico article “‘My Dearest Fidel’: An ABC Journalist’s Secret Liaison With Fidel Castro.”… “When I first read Peter’s (Kornbluh’s) article, I was entranced by his thrilling account of a complicated, fascinating woman (Castro and Che Guevara groupie Lisa Howard) in the midst of a high-stakes, real-life drama,” Gadot said. “I knew immediately that I had to be involved creatively with telling (Castro and Che groupie) Lisa Howard’s story, and am thrilled to be producing this film with Sue.” Fidel Castro’s habitual references to Israel as “Fascist!””Nazi!” and “Genocidal!” are the least of it. He also put his (stolen) money where his mouth is: sending tanks and troops to Syria during the Yom Kippur war attempting to “erase Israel!” His Stalinist regime also sponsored the famous UN resolution equating “Zionsim with Racism!” and drove out 90 per cent of Cuba’s Jewish population. In fact, what Czar Nicholas failed to accomplish with 20 years of pogroms, “My Dearest Fidel” pulled off in three years of his Stalinist rule. He drove out a higher percentage of Jews from Cuba than Czar Nicholas drove from Russian and even Hafez Assad drove out of Syria. Yet “Miss Israel” seems as charmed by him as was Lisa Howard-- who also had the hots for Fidel’s sidekick Che Guevara. In fact, in December 1964 Lisa Howard threw a celebrity-studded party in her Manhattan bungalow in honor of Che Guevara who was addressing the UN that week. “Executions?!”Che Guevara exclaimed to the claps and cheers of that august international body. “Certainly we execute!—and we will continue executing as long as necessary!...the U.S.is carnivorous animal feeding on the helpless!” More claps and cheers greeted Che Guevara—followed by a simply fab party thrown by Lisa Howard, Gal Gadot’s new heroine. By the way, in between signing autographs for Manhattan’s glitterati at Lisa Howard’s place during that trip Che Guevara was also plotting with the Black Liberation Front to blow up the Statue of Liberty. Think of the drama this side-plot would add to Gadot’s movie! I offer this sure-fire nail-biter on the part of Howard’s heartthrob to Gal Gadot’s screenwriters on the house. Don’t mention it, Ms Gadot! Happy to help with your project! Thorough documentation for this terror-plot provided here. Politico writer Peter Kornbluh, by the way, (who “entranced” Gal Gadot with his Politico article) is among the Castro-regime’s most active (but unregistered) U.S. agent/lobbyists. Kornbluh’s links to the terror-sponsoring Castro regime are so intimate that the Stalinist regime’s KGB-tutored secret police use Kornbluh as a celebrity prop in the ransom notes for their hostages. Think I jest? Well, remember when Castro grabbed Alan Gross as a U.S. hostage to blackmail Obama into releasing the Castro terrorist/spies convicted of (among other crimes) conspiracy to murder U.S. citizens?… Oh, I know, I know, the Fake News Media and Castro’s propaganda ministry (but I repeat myself) refer to this as “Obama’s historic opening to Cuba!” In fact it was a craven, sniveling (and typically Democrat) caving to blackmail by a terror-sponsoring, hostage-taking regime. And why did Castro choose a Jewish American hostage (Alan Gross)? Perhaps this might provide a clue: “The control that Israel has over the United States is enormous.”Fidel Castro, And here’s what the Simon Weisenthal Center’s Rabbi Abraham Cooper heard from a Castro official while visiting hostage Alan Gross in his Havana prison cell: "Everyone knows that the Jews have a lot of clout in Washington.” At any rate, here’s a picture (i.e.ransom-note) taken by KGB-mentored Cuban apparatchiks of Alan Gross in captivity featuring Peter Kornbluh. You’ve got to admit that’s quite an honor! Recently a ceremony was held at the Cuban embassy in Washington D.C.in honor, homage and tribute to the mass-murdering, terror-sponsoring dictator Fidel Castro. This strikes me as perfectly proper for Cuban diplomats. But what should you make of U.S. “scholars” billed as “impartial” gleefully offering “honor, homage and tribute” to the mass-murdering, terror-sponsor who craved to nuke their homeland? Wouldn’t this seem to make a sorry joke of their “impartial scholarship and expertise?” When featuring an article by such a person shouldn’t Politico provide its readers with a term a tad more revelatory of his agenda than mere “scholar?” Well, here’s a picture of that celebration of “honor, homage and tribute” to Fidel Castro featuring, Gal Gadot’s “entrancer” Peter Kornbluh among other “U.S. Scholars.” Oh, and if the term “heartthrob” for Fidel and Che in relation to Lisa Howard strikes some of my amigos as unnecessarily hyperbolic, I invite them (especially the ladies who are much better than men in these matters) to study Lisa Howard’s face in these pictures of her with Fidel Castro and Che Guevara. Scroll down a bit and you’ll find that Ann Margaret never gazed upon Conrad Birdie more adoringly than (early feminist) Lisa Howard gazed upon Che Guevara and Fidel Castro, the jailers and torturers of the longest-suffering women political prisoners in the modern history of the Western Hemisphere.
A long-time businessman in Stockton, California, Lyle Burgess, pleaded no contest to a charge of statutory rape of a 5-year-old. His punishment: 90 days of house arrest and five years of information probation, KTXL-TV reported. About The Sentence To make matters even worse, the 79-year-old does not have to register as a sex offender. "A 5-6-year-old little girl was molested. Normally the sentence is state prison and then when you're released, you have to register as a sex offender," family attorney Ken Meleyco said. "He's obviously very wealthy and it's just an example of how the wealthy people, time and time again, escape the penalty for what they did." "It is just appalling that somebody commits an offense like this and you have protections like 290 (failure to register as a sex offender) and Jessica’s Law and someone has the propensity to harm children and now nobody is warned," Davenport told The Stockton Record. According to Burgess' attorney, Gregory Davenport, the family is doing this with an agenda in mind. "I believe the allegations are motivated by greed," Davenport told The Stockton Record. "They are using this instance to try to gain financially.” About The Assault The rape in question allegedly took place in 2016 when Burgess — a trusted family friend and someone who knew the dad for more than two decades — invited the family to his cabin in Calaveras County, The Sacramento Bee reported. "They trusted this man, he was a family friend, and he took advantage of them," Meleyco told KMOV-TV. Meleyco says the now 7-year-old is not doing very well. "She's showing all the symptoms of somebody who's been molested. She's in counseling, and she's gonna be in counseling all her life." The Stockton Record details the parents' testimony: “I’m incredibly disgusted by his behavior and continuously disgusted by his lies,” she said before describing his sentence as “getting off so easy” and not registering as a sex offender. “I want other kids to be protected by possible future abuse by this man,” she said. The victim’s father, who has known Burgess for more than two decades, said: “I don’t have too many prized possessions in this world other than my family. (My daughter) will remember this the rest of her life. She sleeps on the floor outside our room." San Joaquin County Superior Court Judge Ron Northup told the parents that their testimony makes an impact but, because the please was negotiated, "courts are somewhat limited" in how they sentence a case. The Calls For Investigation Now, a petition has surfaced, urging investigators to look into why Burgess' sentence was "so lenient." Lyle Burgess, a wealthy man who lives in Stockton, sexaully [sic] assaulted a five year old girl. He was sentenced by San Joaquin County Superior Court Judge Ron Northup to either 90 days in an alternative-work program or in-home detention plus five years of informal probation! He doesn’t even have to register as a sex offender! House arrest and probation?! How does this happen? This child deserves justice! She deserves to know that people care enough to make sure this man can never hurt her or any other child again! She will have to deal with this for the rest of her life, and her abuser is basically getting a slap on the wrist. Please sign and share this petition! Put pressure on the people who can investigate why his sentence is so lenient. Maybe there is a way he can be re-sentenced. Thank you! The petition currently has 148 signatures at the time of publishing.
Wisconsin State Journal: Senate plans to take up state budget without votes to pass it Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Industrial barrel investigation goes national; Wisconsin plants hit with 16 violations Federal regulators have expanded their investigation of industrial barrel refurbishing plants nationwide, examining operations and safety at 13 facilities in nine states. The multi-agency investigation initially focused on three such facilities in the Milwaukee area, where a Milwaukee Journal Sentinel investigation uncovered a host of problems endangering workers and residents. The U.S. Department of Transportation recorded 16 violations at the three plants, including not properly cleaning and reconditioning the 55-gallon barrels, failing to give employees adequate training and not keeping required paperwork, according to a Notice of Probable Violation issued Aug. 31 to Container Life Cycle Management. The department’s sanctions are the latest development as regulators continue to investigate the plants in Milwaukee, St. Francis and Oak Creek.
In their rush to flee Albany and run for re-election, will state legislators leave common-sense traffic-safety measures on the committee-room floor? The city’s school-zone speed camera program is set to expire June 30 unless the Legislature acts. That is, unless state Sen. Simcha Felder (D-Brooklyn) drops his opposition. Felder, a Democrat who provides the Republicans their one-vote majority, is using that muscle to stall the bill — though Sen. Martin Golden (R-Brooklyn) supports renewal. School-zone cameras save lives. At locations with a camera, injuries in traffic crashes (to pedestrians, cyclists and motorists) have dropped nearly 15 percent a year since 2012. Installing cameras at another 150 school zones and extending the program through 2022, as Mayor de Blasio requests, will save more lives — and let more children and parents feel safe on their way to school. The Assembly approved the measure months ago. On the other hand, it has two other traffic-safety bills stalled — reluctant to hike any penalties on any law-breakers. The Senate has already OK’d legislation to 1) suspend licenses after two school-zone speeding tickets within 18 months, and 2) make it a felony to injure someone while driving with a suspended or revoked license. We started flagging the first reform in January, after a truck driver whose license had been suspended nine times killed a Brooklyn kid. The need for the school-zone-suspension rule became clear after the March accident that killed two Park Slope toddlers. Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan and Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie need to crack heads and get the right things done.
MANCHESTER, N.H. — Police in New Hampshire found an array of drugs in an apartment during an investigation into the death of a 20-month-old child. Police say two people have been charged with drug possession after Wednesday’s discovery. Authorities in Manchester say the toddler died on May 25, and they executed a search warrant that day as part of the death investigation. Thirty-one-year-old Joshua Garvey and 33-year-old Christen Gelinas were each charged with possession of controlled drugs with intent to distribute. Police say they found heroin, cocaine, crack and suboxone that had an estimated street value of over $5,400. Garvey also faces bail violation charges. Gelinas and Garvey faced arraignment Wednesday. It wasn’t immediately known if they had lawyers. There were no details on their relationship to the toddler or the child’s identity.
“The Gospel According to André” follows the gregarious, larger-than-life editor, stylist and fashion icon André Leon Talley. Yet unlike previous glossy docs such as “The September Issue,” “Gospel” is far more than a dressed-up Vogue infomercial. Fashion fans may know Talley as Vogue editrix Anna Wintour’s perennially caftan-clad sidekick. And “Gospel” showcases the 68-year-old’s trademark zest and wit, as well as his everyman quality. (His scenes with his childhood friend — a working-class Southerner who prefers baseball and hot dogs to couture and caviar — are some of the best.) But director Kate Novack pushes Talley to speak about his experiences as a black, gay man. He recalls how white students at Duke, where his grandmother was a housekeeper, threw rocks at him, and how his mother was embarrassed by his outré church outfits. Later, one Yves Saint Laurent employee would call him “Queen Kong.” It may not be the prettiest fashion documentary, but “Gospel” is certainly the most real — and, due to Talley’s trailblazing, inspiring.
“Grey’s Anatomy” star Jesse Williams is dating stunning SportsNet New York anchor Taylor Rooks — sources exclusively tell Page Six — after moving on from his breakup with Minka Kelly earlier this year. We hear that Williams and Rooks were spotted together at Kevin Hart’s comedy show at Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City, NJ, over Memorial Day Weekend on a date. An insider told us: “They are eager to keep their romance under wraps. He’s been going through a difficult divorce [from Aryn Drake-Lee], but he’s found solace with Taylor.” Williams filed for divorce last year. The source added of Williams and Rooks, “The two slipped into Atlantic City for 24 hours” on Saturday. Oddly, the pair were rumored to have stayed at an Atlantic City hotel — the Ocean Resort Casino — before it opens next month, as the only two guests in the 1,400-room resort. (Sounds like it could be a romantic version of “The Shining.”) But sources close to the TV star — as well as a rep for the hotel — shot down the cozy creepy concept. Rooks has become a rising star for her “TimeOut With Taylor Rooks” YouTube show and podcast, which has recently included interviews with guests including Meek Mill, Dion Waiters and Dwyane Wade. Reps for Rooks and Williams did not comment.
A New Jersey couple admitted to stealing more than $1.4 million from Hurricane Sandy victims and spending the cash in Atlantic City casinos and on luxury items, according to a report. Jeffrey Colmyer, 42, and Tiffany Cimino, 34, of Little Egg Harbor in Ocean County, targeted more than 20 hurricane victims in a fraud scheme through Rayne Construction Management Services and Colmyer & Sons, NJ.com reported. The victims paid for reconstruction, home elevations or repairs that were not started or completed. Some of the money came from government relief programs. Colmyer used the stolen cash to gamble hundreds of thousands of dollars at seven Atlantic City casinos, authorities said. The couple also bought a $17,000 diamond ring. “Colmyer and Cimino heartlessly preyed on Sandy victims whose homes had been destroyed, stealing the relief funds that were the lifeline these victims needed to rebuild in the aftermath of the historic storm,” state Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said in a statement. “By sending Colmyer to prison, we deliver a strong deterrent message that anyone willing to sink so low as to steal disaster relief money from victims will face a stern reckoning.” Colmyer and Cimino both admitted to theft charges. Colmyer, who also pleaded guilty to money laundering, is expected to be sentenced in September to seven years in state prison, while the plea deal calls for Cimino to get probation. The deal also calls for them to pay $1.45 million in restitution. Colmyer also owes $56,472 in back taxes.
The naysayers had already begun shoveling dirt on the Big Blue football grave of Eli Manning. The football obituaries were being written, the football eulogies were being sung. So who was that in the red 10 jersey slinging the ball Tuesday at Giants OTAs? Could that have been Eli Manning, starring in a “Night of the Living Dead” remake, produced by John Mara and Steve Tisch and directed by Dave Gettleman and Pat Shurmur? Who gave their franchise quarterback new life the night they drafted Saquon Barkley instead of Sam Darnold, Josh Allen or Josh Rosen? E-life. “I think Eli has a lot left in the tank,” wide receiver Sterling Shepard told The Post, “and they were right by making that decision, I feel like.” Manning (19 TDs, 13 INTs in 2017) was granted his wish to keep his dream job, and now, at age 37, it is on him to author a dream season few on the outside believe he has in him. Those on the inside feel differently. Head coach Shurmur worked magic with Case Keenum in Minnesota last season and believes he can work magic with the eternally cerebral Manning. A Barkley-centric running game behind a rebuilt offensive line will give Manning the kind of balance he has lacked for years, and a healthy Odell Beckham Jr. should make a dramatic difference. “Being at Duke (for spring workouts) with him, kinda seeing his routine, getting to see what he’s been doing, you can definitely tell he’s kinda turned back the clock a little bit,” tight end Evan Engram told The Post. If you didn’t know how old he is, how old would you think he would be? “I would say early 30s … like 30, 31,” Engram said. “I expect a big year from 10. We got some dogs up front that are gonna work their butts off to protect him, we’re gonna work all together, have a good run game, and we got some weapons outside that’s gonna make a lot of plays for him, so I’m really excited to see what we could do.” If you didn’t know how old Eli Manning is, how old is he looking these days? “I’d say about 26, 27,” free safety Andrew Adams told The Post. No way. “Yeah, he looks about in his prime … throwing the ball well … got good zip on it … so yeah, he’s looking great,” Adams said. “He’s performing at a high level in these OTAs, definitely. “We all believe in him and we know he can get the job done.” Barkley will also serve as a safety valve in the passing game for Manning, who completed 105 passes to the backs last season. The difference is Barkley can take any one of them to the house. “He’s a hard-nosed guy,” Adams said of Barkley. “He’s gonna put his head down and get you four yards no matter what. “He can make nothing into a little bit, a little bit into a lot.” If you didn’t know how old Manning is, how old would you think he was? “The guy’s still out here slinging the ball like — I couldn’t give you a specific age, but he’s out here slinging the ball just like he always has,” Shepard said. It all sounds good at the end of May. The jury is very much out. But Manning no longer has to look over his shoulder and worry about taking a seat on the bench. He loves being the quarterback of the Giants. It stings him that he has not won a playoff game since Super Bowl XLVI. He doesn’t merely want to win. He needs to win. Before his championship window is shut forever. E-life.
Last year, hedge-fund tycoon James Simons made $194,000 — an hour, that is. The former math professor who heads Rennaissance Technologies earned $1.7 billion in 2017, making him the highest-earning hedge-fund manager for the third year straight, according to an annual survey by Institutional Investor’s Alpha magazine. Simons edged out Appaloosa Management’s David Tepper, who earlier this month shelled out $2.2 billion in cash to buy the Carolina Panthers. Tepper earned $1.5 billion in 2017 as his fund gained 13 percent, more than doubling his personal haul of $700 million in 2016. Doing the math, Tepper’s daily earnings work out to $4.1 million, or $171,000 an hour. In all, the top 25 highest-earning hedgies collectively made $15.4 billion last year, averaging more than $600 million each. That makes the compensation of CEOs like Goldman Sachs’ Lloyd Blankfein — who raked in $24 million last year — look like peanuts. Top hedgies last year got a 40 percent bump in their earnings, compared to the $11 billion they earned in 2016. Emboldened by surging corporate profits and optimism about Trump’s tax cuts, investors piled back into hedge funds in 2017, pouring in $30 billion after yanking more than $100 billion in 2016, according to eVestment. Collectively hedge funds gained 8.6 percent in 2017, according to the HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index — up from 5.6 percent in 2016. The surge was in part due to the 21.8 percent gain in the S&P 500. Taking the third spot was Ken Griffin of Citadel, who earned $1.4 billion as the firm’s three main funds each posted gains of roughly 13 percent. A hedgie’s haul didn’t necessarily reflect his fund’s performance. Bridgewater Associates’ Ray Dalio grabbed the fourth spot on the list with earnings of $1.3 billion even though two of the firm’s funds delivered “anemic” returns of 1.2 percent, while its All Weather strategy fund gained 13.1 percent. Falling just short of hitting the billion-dollar mark at spot number five was Millennium Management’s Israel Englander, who earned $975 million last year. To arrive at the hedgies’ earnings, Institutional Investor calculates the manager’s gains on their own invested capital as well as their split of fee revenue — both management and performance fees.
Liberal Washington Post columnist E.J. Dionne is slated to teach an Anti-Trump undergraduate course at Harvard University during the 2018-2019 school year, Campus Reform reported. About the Course The course, called "Donald Trump and the Challenge to Liberal Democracy," is listed on the Harvard website with the following description: Is liberal democracy in crisis? Has it always been in crisis?Until recently, liberal democracy was largely taken for granted in the West, and many saw it as the wave of the future around the globe. But over the last decade, it has come under challenge in unanticipated ways. Far-right parties gained ground in many countries, although recent elections in Europe suggest that they have plateaued and might even be in retreat. Donald Trump's election brought this conversation directly to American shores. This class will discuss the challenge to liberal democracy, with special reference to the United States, but also in comparative perspective. There will be particular attention to France, Britain, the Netherlands and Germany and also discussion of the similarities and differences between our time and the 1930s. We will discuss the economic, sociological, and cultural challenges to liberal democracy, and the obligations that fall upon those who would defend it. About the Professor E.J. Dionne has a long-standing background in liberal politics, based on his bio on the Washington Post website. He spent 14 years at the New York Times before moving to the Washington Post as a political reporter in 1990. Dionne has been a twice-weekly columnist at the Washington Post since 1993. He's currently a government professor at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. and a visiting professor at his alma mater, Harvard University. Dionne is also a senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution and a frequent commentator on politics for National Public Radio and MSNBC. He was formerly the vice president of the American Political Science Association in 2014-2015 and has authored seven books, all far left-leaning. It's blatantly obvious that Dionne is strongly opposed to the Trump administration. Just look at some of these tweets: My read of @danbalz's sober & thoughtful take:#Trump's lies, distortions & attacks on the #Mueller probe are aimed almost entirely at Republicans. He figures he can survive if the GOP stays supine & the base loyal. He's willing to tear the country apart. https://t.co/cNEpo0GZVB — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 27, 2018 The risk of yielding to #Trump: "He is interested only in self-preservation no matter what the cost to the rule of law..every deviation from ordinary practice..will set a dangerous precedent without achieving more than a temporary reprieve."@RuthMarcushttps://t.co/O3CJVRhhkt — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 26, 2018 Our anthem says we're "the land of the free and the home of the brave." Freedom & bravery took a big hit today. All who love our country & our freedoms should reject the #NFL owners' shameful targeting of protesting players--and their spineless caving to #Trump's pressure. — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 23, 2018 Re #Trump White House officially doubling down on "animals" language: Pronouncing whole categories of people as subhuman numbs a nation’s moral sense and, in extreme but, unfortunately, too many cases, becomes a rationale for collective cruelty. More belowhttps://t.co/dkHGPHVcyh — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 21, 2018 Trump's "animals" comment and the numbing of our moral sense. My column: What’s not fake news is #Trump’s refusal to take responsibility for using words quite deliberately to enrage, degrade and divide. In doing so, he debases and dehumanizes all of us.https://t.co/dkHGPHVcyh — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 21, 2018 My column is on what we've learned: (1) the Russia connection to #Trump World runs very deep. (2)?Trump has made old-fashioned forms of influence-peddling more blatant. (3) Trump will play as fast and loose with policy as he does with ethics & the truth.https://t.co/JShzj84bqQ — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 10, 2018 And, on top of his very anti-Trump stance, Dionne seems to think he has all conservatives and Republicans pegged: Giuliani and Trump "have one objective" which is to say something "the Republican base can latch on to" that lets them think the Mueller probe is "a fraud" - @EJDionne pic.twitter.com/q0ATpQvwSO — TheBeat w/Ari Melber (@TheBeatWithAri) May 18, 2018 He even has a book titled One Nation Under Trump: A Guide for the Perplexed, the Disillusioned, the Desperate, and the Not-Yet Deported. #Trump's opponents have created a mass movement for change and there are new ideas on the center/left & left. We discuss the way ahead in the new paperback of "One Nation After Trump" out this summer. You can preorder here & retweets are much appreciated.https://t.co/bBV1ICvW84 — EJ Dionne (@EJDionne) May 26, 2018 The True Meaning of College It's often said that college is the place for young adults to explore new ideas and grow as individuals. The most ironic aspect of Dionne's college is course is that it's a hardcore liberal professor teaching a hardcore liberal course. College campuses are known for being liberal cesspools. If colleges truly wanted to expose young people to new ideas, they would have a conservative professor teach a conservative course. The idea of having a college class about the Trump presidency, while he's still in office, is flat out stupid. There's no way to adequately analyze President Trump's decisions and policies and the lasting impact they will or will not have. Comparing America today to the 1930s is like comparing apples to oranges. We're able to gain understanding of our past because there has been significant amount of time to see the domino effect of a leader's decisions. Comparing those decisions and consequences to decisions that were made yesterday — or even last week — aren't comparable. Analyzing history as it happens isn't just stupid, but it's dangerous. And it's one of the ways the left is brainwashing our youth.
Damir Sagolj/Reuters People in China can now file for divorce on WeChat, the country's most popular instant messaging service. The app rolled out a trial "divorce" functionality in Guangdong province, which is home to major cities including Guangzhou and Shenzhen. Couples who no longer want to be together can now make an appointment with their local divorce registration office under WeChat's new function, which was rolled out about two weeks ago. We first noticed the new function via a tweet by Matthew Brennan, a WeChat expert living in China. How it works The left screen in the picture below shows the generic document home screen, which allows you to personal documents for all sorts of purposes. Advertisement Scroll further down, and under the subtitle "Marriage" is a function that says: "Make an appointment for divorce registration," as can be seen in the right screen. WeChat/Business Insider The app then takes you to a page where you tell it whether you're currently living in China or somewhere else. Then you can enter personal details of the people getting divorced, including names and addresses. Then you can make an appointment with the local divorce registrar. WeChat Brennan, the WeChat expert, told Business Insider that making appointments was "pretty typical functionality that we find in WeChat." Advertisement He added: "It's also very typical that payments can also be handled directly through WeChat, although without going through the process, it's unclear if this is an option right now." Filing for divorce is just one of WeChat's many new functions. Users in the province can also store driving permits and passport copies, and manage their tax documents. They can also apply for marriage licence. Which such functions are only available to Guangdong citizens, WeChat's developer Tencent is aiming to roll them out across China in the future, Brennan told Business Insider. The influence of WeChat, an app used by one billion active users worldwide, is growing in users' daily lives. Last year a judge in Nanjing, east China, called a woman on WeChat during court proceedings when she failed to turn up.
A firefighter’s rescue of a dog out on a roof in Maine involved a furry personal touch. “This beautiful dog managed to get out onto the roof of his home thru an upstairs window,” Wells police wrote in a Facebook post Sunday, sharing photos of the canine. They added, “We received numerous calls but one concerned citizen, Phil Burke, discovered him early on and notified us. Another awesome citizen stood by with the dog until we could arrive on scene!” Wells Fire Capt. Jeff Nawfel used a ladder to get to the dog and got some "kisses" from the canine, NECN reports. The police department's post sparked hundreds of reactions from Facebook users and several comments. "Well done, and you got kisses too!!!" one commenter wrote. "Nice job ! Doggie kisses r the best," another replied. "Great job, guys. And, Doggie, behave yourself," one user added. FLORIDA DEPUTIES RESCUE PUPPY LOCKED IN HOT CAR Wells police also posted video showing the duo up on the roof, which includes Nawfel being licked. The clip has garnered 7,600 views as of Tuesday afternoon. Officials said there's still no word on whether the troublesome pet is out of the dog house yet. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Republican Georgia gubernatorial candidates Casey Cagle and Brian Kemp are heading to a July runoff election after Tuesday's primary. While Cagle, the state's Lieutenant Governor, and Kemp, Georgia's Secretary of State, emerged at the top of a somewhat crowded GOP field of candidates, neither won more than 50 percent of the vote to avoid a July 24 runoff. Todd Starnes spoke recently with both Cagle and Kemp, who explained why their positions on issues like immigration and the Second Amendment should appeal to true conservatives. "It's a bunch of do-gooders and they are willing to put the safety of our citizens at risk and I'm just not willing to do that and so you've got to push back and we did. Not only is it putting safety at risk, but also the violation of oath of office that they're forcing on those local law enforcement officers, and that's just not right either." Cagle said about sanctuary city legislation. "I would urge conservatives to look at my record. Who's been standing up over the last eight and a half years, fighting the left, standing up for our values, who actually has a record of doing that?" Kemp said Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America! Listen to both interviews here: Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Social media had a field day with a photo which appears to show that the Trump administration is keeping migrant children penned in cages along the U.S.-Mexican border. A photo that went viral shows two Hispanic children sleeping on a concrete floor behind a chain-link fence. A news report that confirms what you already believe to be true is said to be “too good to check.” In this case, the photo seemed to corroborate what the media falsely believe about our President. “Look at these pictures,” tweeted former President Obama’s chief speechwriter, Jon Favreau. “This is happening right now, and the only debate that matters is how we force our government to get these kids back to their families as fast as humanly possible.” The picture was retweeted by other anti-Trump personalities including Shaun King, an activist who supported Black Lives Matter. “Take a look at these pictures,” tweeted Linda Sarsour, the radical Muslim activist who co-founded the Women’s March. Donald Trump, as usual, had the last laugh on his critics. The photo was actually taken in June 2014, when Barack Obama was President. The picture was one of 10 photos published by a Phoenix newspaper, the Arizona Republic, under the headline: “Immigrant children flood detention center.” The children, about 900 in all, had crossed the border illegally in Texas without their parents. They were shipped to Nogales, Arizona where the U.S. government set up a makeshift processing center bigger than a football field. “The children, mostly of high-school and junior-high-school age, are housed behind 18-foot-high chain-link fences topped with razor wire,” said the reporter who was allowed to visit the facility. “They pass the day sitting on benches or lying side by side on tiny blue mattresses pressed up against each other on nearly every square inch of the floor in the fenced areas.” “Democrats mistakenly tweet 2014 pictures from Obama’s term showing children from the Border in steel cages,” President Trump tweeted on the day after Memorial Day. “They thought it was recent pictures in order to make us look bad, but backfires.” “Dems must agree to Wall and new Border Protection for good of country.” Once again, Donald Trump emerges the winner while his critics, like Linda Sarsour, debase themselves. “Our immigration system was a disaster long before Trump came along,” Sarsour insisted after her gaffe was exposed. “Now it will become increasingly worse under this White Supremacist Administration.” It’s all very frustrating to George Lakoff, a Professor Emeritus of Cognitive Science and Linguistics at the University of California Berkeley. Lakoff has made a second career trying to teach Democrats how to communicate the progressive agenda to ordinary Americans. “When you repeat Trump, you help Trump,” Professor Lakoff wrote in an exasperated post to his friends on the left. “You do this by spreading his message wide and far. “Think about it: every time Trump issues a mean tweet or utters a shocking statement, millions of people begin to obsess over his words. “Reporters make it the top headline. Cable TV panels talk about it for hours. Horrified Democrats and progressives share the stories online, making sure to repeat the nastiest statements in order to refute them. “Nobody knows this better than Trump. Trump, as a media master, knows how to frame a debate” wrote the distinguished professor, who published a whole book on how to frame the debate. “When the news media and Democrats repeat Trump’s frames, they are strengthening those frames by ensuring that tens of millions of Americans hear them repeated over and over again.” The 900 children who were pictured in Nogales were among the tens of thousands of unaccompanied alien children (UACs) who flooded across the southern border in 2014. Under the Obama administration, most UACs were placed with relatives living illegally in the United States, instead of being returned to their parents in Honduras or Guatemala, as they should have been. President Trump is determined to change the system that allows UACs from countries other than Mexico (OTM) to remain here indefinitely. When the number of UACs spiked this spring, Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions took several steps to stem the flow. Meanwhile, pro-immigration Republicans are pressuring Trump to cave by extending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) without building a border wall. A pro-immigration group funded in part by the Koch brothers, LIBRE, is running ads urging Congress to pass “a permanent solution for Dreamers.” In the pro-amnesty Koch orbit is Colorado Senator Cory Gardner, who complained about Attorney General Sessions considering enforcement of federal laws against marijuana sales. Legalizing marijuana is another hobby horse of the Koch network of donors, to the detriment of average Americans. President Trump is welcome relief from politicians who care more about donors than voters. Trump should continue to be a “choice, not an echo” on immigration, and stand firm for a border wall.
Two men fishing for catfish in Oklahoma over the weekend were in for a big surprise when they reeled in a massive alligator gar, instead. Tim Butler and Canton Stafford, who were camping at Lake Texoma near McBride, had set out several rods in hopes of catching some catfish overnight. SOUTHWEST FLIGHT MAKES EMERGENCY LANDING BECAUSE PASSENGER WAS ALLEGEDLY SMOKING POT When Butler saw one of the lines getting a bite, he told local game wardens he fought hard to reel it in. “Tim said the huge fish stripped all his line from his reel twice before landing the monster. He fought the large fish, but said it would have been impossible to land the beast without the help of his buddy Canton!” Oklahoma Game Wardens wrote in a Facebook post. The unexpected catch was 6 feet 2 inches long, with a 30.5-inch girth. Butler told the wardens the alligator gar would feed the whole camp for the rest of the weekend “and then some.” FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS In 2015, the record was set when a fisherman caught an 8-foot alligator gar weighing 254 pounds out of the same lake, according to NewsOK.
Chick-fil-A celebrated fallen soldiers on Memorial Day by setting an empty table in remembrance of them. At several locations across the country, the chicken chain set a special place as a reminder of those who’ve lost their lives serving our country. “It’s a tradition in military services when you have a formal celebration to have a table for those who didn’t make it back,” retired Navy Commander Marinus Storm, who runs a Chick-fil-A in Jacksonville, Fla. said in a statement. MOM CLAIMS IHOP DISCRIMINATED AGAINST HER 3-YEAR-OLD SON WHO WAS BORN WITHOUT ARMS The Missing Man Tables, also referred to as Remembrance or Fallen Soldier Tables, were set with a white tablecloth “for the purity of the service members’ motives in serving their nation” and an “empty chair that will never be filled.” On top sat a red rose, an American flag, a Bible and a framed message about the meaning of the display. “People have always been touched by it, especially veterans and the generation that has children in the armed forces now,” Storm said. "There's no doubt this is an opportunity to teach people, specifically those who don't have any connection to the military, about the sacrifices our service members make and that hose losses last." Chick-fil-A wasn’t the only restaurant to set up a Missing Man Table over the holiday weekend. Slim Chickens in Longview, Texas set up a similar display for fallen soldiers. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS "The single red rose, displayed in a vase, reminds us of the life of each of our fallen comrades, and the loved ones and friends of these comrades who keep the faith. The vase is tied with a red ribbon, a symbol of our continued determination to remember our fallen comrades. A slice of lemon on the bread plate is to remind us of the bitter fate of those who will never return," a sign describing the items read.
Restrictive rules being proposed for five lakes in New Jersey, including the largest body of freshwater in the state, could have a huge impact on tourism and summer fun. Some of the proposals come at the request of lakefront residents who claim their properties are being subjected to too many unwelcome visitors. According to the New Jersey Daily Record, some of the proposals include prohibiting boat anchoring within 200 yards of shore, and limitations on rafts and tubes tethered to the boats. They would also crack down on how long tow lines for waterskiers can be and the times that waterskiing is permitted. Lake Hopatcong, about 45 miles northwest of New York City, is one of the most popular lake destinations in New Jersey and, along with Lake Mohawk, Lake Grinnell, Cranberry Lake and Paulinskill Lake, could see its popularity as a destination diminish if the anti-fun contingent gets its way. As the Daily Record reported, While the rule would exist to spare homeowners from excessive noise, opponents of the proposal say it will prevent fisherman from anchoring where they are most likely to find fish. According to the proposal by the New Jersey Boat Regulation Commission, a subsidiary of the state Motor Vehicle Commission, the law was created in consultation with State Police Marine Services Bureau and comes at the request of citizens who own property alone Lake Hopatcong’s shores, particularly along Byram Cove. In 2014, residents near the western shore of Lake Hopatcong, fed up with noise, overcrowding and pollution that they attributed to a group known as the Byram Cove Party, went to meetings of the Lake Hopatcong Commission and Hopatcong Borough Council to voice their concerns. The rules are governed by the Boat Regulation Commission, which will meet Jan. 11 to discuss the proposals. Lake Hopatcong historically served as a resort lake, with a popular yacht club and amusement park drawing tourists from New Jersey and neighboring New York. In recent decades, however, it has turned more residential. But even as more private homes were built, it still remained popular with the public. Lake Hopatcong has multiple docks and a state park for public access, swimming, boating, and waterskiing. It’s also one of the few lakes in New Jersey that has bars and restaurants accessible by boat, clearly catering to a recreational crowd. The only problem is that it’s become too popular. These proposed restrictions aren’t being posed in the name of safety or environmental protection, the usual grounds on which nanny-staters base their proposals (whatever the real reasons might be). This time they’re more up front: The restrictions on use are simply to serve the aesthetic pleasure of lakefront property owners. “It’s just a way to push the boaters away from Byram Cove to some other part of the lake and most likely annoy other lakefront homeowners,” Scott Carter, a Lake Hopatcong recreation enthusiast, said in the Daily Record story.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. A couple of years ago at a motel in Columbus, a young woman shared a bag of heroin with her father. Both of them nodded off. Because she woke up and he did not, she was sentenced to three years in prison for involuntary manslaughter. That arbitrary outcome encapsulates the senseless cruelty of a strategy that in recent years has gained favor among prosecutors across the country: treating opioid-related deaths as homicides, regardless of intent. The resulting prosecutions not only are manifestly unjust but could make fatal overdoses more likely by discouraging bystanders from seeking help. A recent New York Times investigation identified more than 1,000 arrests or prosecutions related to accidental opioid deaths in 15 states from 2015 through 2017, a period when the annual number of cases almost doubled. According to a 2017 report from the Drug Policy Alliance (DPA), annual press mentions of such prosecutions more than tripled between 2011 and 2016, from 363 to 1,178. DPA found examples in all but four states. Twenty states have laws that specifically address drug-induced homicide, DPA senior staff attorney Lindsay LaSalle notes in the report, while others "charge the offense of drug delivery resulting in death under various felony-murder, depraved heart, or involuntary or voluntary manslaughter laws." Possible prison sentences range from two years to life. Under federal law, drug distribution resulting in death or serious injury is punishable by 20 years to life. Although legislators and prosecutors may portray such cases as a way to punish callous, death-dealing drug traffickers, the defendant is usually someone close to the decedent. As a practical matter, that makes sense, because the higher up you go in the distribution chain, the harder it is to prove a connection between the defendant and a particular consumer. The upshot is that a defendant's role in "distributing" a drug may be limited to buying it for someone else, arranging a purchase, or sharing a stash. When money changes hands, the dealers are often selling just enough to finance their own habits. Looking at cases in Pennsylvania during the first half of 2017, the Times found that three-quarters of the defendants were themselves drug users. Last year WITI, the Fox station in Milwaukee, reviewed the 100 most recent prosecutions for drug-induced homicide in Wisconsin and found that "just 11 defendants were higher-level drug dealers," while the rest were friends, relatives, or "low-level street dealers." A woman in Minnesota got four years for sharing a fentanyl patch with her fiance. A New York woman got six years for mailing a friend some heroin at his request while he was on a business trip in Chicago. A Louisiana man got a life sentence for using heroin with his girlfriend. "Many law enforcement officers hope that the cases act as a deterrent," the Times notes. But it may not be the kind of deterrent they have in mind. Because prompt medical attention is crucial in saving people from potentially fatal opioid overdoses, 40 states and the District Columbia have enacted "911 Good Samaritan" laws that shield bystanders from some drug-related charges when they call for help. But those laws do not apply to homicide charges. A 2002 analysis of drug-induced homicide prosecutions in New Jersey found that most of the defendants were friends of the decedents and "in some cases the people who sought emergency care for them." A Minnesota woman is serving a six-year prison sentence because she let her husband take methadone prescribed for her, even though she called 911 and tried to save his life. A woman who was charged with drug-induced homicide in Illinois because she helped her husband buy heroin was the person who called 911 when he overdosed. "The most common reason people cite for not calling 911 in the event of an overdose is fear of police involvement," DPA's LaSalle notes. "The only behavior that is deterred by drug-induced homicide prosecutions is the seeking of life-saving medical assistance."
President Obama was probably very, very confident Hillary Clinton would win the 2016 election. Nevertheless, he took unprecedented steps to stump for his former secretary of state. In the end, he couldn’t drag her over the finish line. She went down in defeat. It was one of the biggest political upsets in American history. It was a punch to the mouth of liberal America. The rural voter had his/her revenge. The urban elites were silenced. The irony is this tribalism, this electorate, was not the one Obama was trying to nurture or preserve; he wanted to change our politics, remember? Did he go too far? That’s what he was left grappling with when it was clear that Hillary Clinton would never become president. Obama urged Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to be more vocal about defending their shared values, Angela Merkel told the soon-to-be-ex-president that she felt obligated to run for another term in Germany due to Trump’s win. “She’s all alone,” Obama remarked in his final meeting with her. Yet, the former president also wondered if he pushed too far, reinforcing the old divisions of Left and Right. Well, when you push anti-gun policies, like about health care reform, and dither on Syria and Crimea—yeah, you are going to legitimize what people have been saying about the Democratic Party: they’re left wing policies are ruinously expensive, they’re weak abroad, and attack the cultural core of rural voters. In this case, it was gun ownership. Obama’s former foreign policy guru, Ben Rhodes, has his book coming out, where he also says he can’t shake the notion that he didn’t see Trump’s victory coming. Yeah, a little Monday morning quarterback here, but he admits that at its core, Trump ran on the same message they did in 2008 that slayed Clinton: she’s part of the swamp and can’t be trusted to bring change. As Obama was left devastated by Trump’s win, his aides assured him that he would have won a third term if the Constitution permitted it, and that Millennials are more aligned with his agenda (via NYT): Riding in a motorcade in Lima, Peru, shortly after the 2016 election, President Barack Obama was struggling to understand Donald J. Trump’s victory. “What if we were wrong?” he asked aides riding with him in the armored presidential limousine. He had read a column asserting that liberals had forgotten how important identity was to people and had promoted an empty cosmopolitan globalism that made many feel left behind. “Maybe we pushed too far,” Mr. Obama said. “Maybe people just want to fall back into their tribe.” His aides reassured him that he still would have won had he been able to run for another term and that the next generation had more in common with him than with Mr. Trump. Mr. Obama, the first black man elected president, did not seem convinced. “Sometimes I wonder whether I was 10 or 20 years too early,” he said. […] Set to be published next week by Random House, Mr. Rhodes’s memoir, “The World as It Is,” offers a peek into Mr. Obama’s tightly sealed inner sanctum from the perspective of one of the few people who saw him up close through all eight years of his presidency. Few moments shook Mr. Obama more than the decision by voters to replace him with a candidate who had questioned his very birth. […] Mr. Obama and his team were confident that Mrs. Clinton would win and, like much of the country, were shocked when she did not. “I couldn’t shake the feeling that I should have seen it coming,” Mr. Rhodes writes. “Because when you distilled it, stripped out the racism and misogyny, we’d run against Hillary eight years ago with the same message Trump had used: She’s part of a corrupt establishment that can’t be trusted to bring change.” Yet, Rhodes and Obama were left stunned by the 2016 results. It’s a prime window into the insight of the Left’s elite members, stunned that their condescending attitude, the lecturing, and the pervasive apathy towards those who don’t live in cities somehow came back to bite them in the ass. I think what’s more stinging is that millions of Obama voters flipped for Trump. Hope and change was shot up like Swiss cheese. Make America Great Again had overtaken it. Yeah, I guess for a man who had built a virtually unbeatable voter coalition would be left adrift by these results, but because of that—let us give thanks that we have term limits. Today, the Left still hasn’t learned. Simple outreach to white working class voters on jobs, trade, job protections, and being proud to be an American get your foot in the door. This isn’t a hard voter bloc to win over. They’ve voted for both parties in past elections. Instead, Democrats would rather consider them to be irremediable racists, a batch of deplorables - which is the mentality that contributed to their 2016 loss.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. There was something profoundly disturbing to be Irish and see the celebrations of the Yes voters in the Irish abortion referendum on Saturday. They were grinning, dancing, cheering, raising champagne glasses. It was frightening, alienating. This was even though Dr Peter Boylan, a senior OB/GYN and leaderof the Yes side, had acknowledged in debates before the referendum, that life began at conception. So here were people jubilantly celebrating the ability to legally end a life. I thought, even for the Yes voters this should have been a sober, serious moment. “..they know not what they do,” I kept thinking. The Irish writer John Waters said “On Friday, the Irish people climbed Calvary backwards, in the name of progress,” a friend in Australia, Libby Young, wrote. She was thinking of Calvary too. She knows abortion, from painful personal experience. "I wish I had known what abortion actually was…There was one woman out the front of the abortion clinic protesting. I remember thinking how cruel she was making me feel worse... I felt like she was my enemy... I think about that woman now and it’s so desperately sad in hindsight that she cared more about my own unborn child than I did." I know about abortion from investigating the Kermit Gosnell story for a book and movie. He was the Philadelphia abortionist convicted of murdering babies born alive. Along with being America’s most prolific serial killer, Gosnell was also a prolific legal abortionist. Part of the trial’s discovery were pictures of the 47 babies whose remains were stored in the basement of his clinic. He was not charged with killing them because they were determined to be within the regulations. These babies quite literally represented the face of legal abortion. And their faces are unforgettable, haunting. The medical examiner who photographed them had to clean them, in some cases rehydrate them and present them as evidence in the trial. But he couldn't effect or change the expression on their faces when they died. One of the babies had his hand in front of his face, attempting to shield himself, another has a finger pointing up like he was making an argument. They are like the bodies discovered in Pompeii, their expressions at their moment of death preserved forever in stone. In my mind the faces of the 47 bodies from Gosnell's clinic are the silent but eloquent affront to all the dancers in Ireland on Saturday. Ireland now has the distinction of being the only country in the world whose people have voted for abortion and they are delighted. But do they really know what they are dancing for? Often when I speak to pro-life groups about the Gosnell story I start by saying I will be very happy when I'm no longer talking about abortion. A large part of me doesn’t want to have anything to do with it. In that way I'm just like a lot of the voters in Ireland, who didn't want to think about abortion and didn’t. The Yes campaign focused on 'women's choice’ and “rights,” the word abortion rarely featured on the posters. That made it easy to vote Yes. Makes sense, because what's not easy to focus on, is that abortion ends another person's life. And the method of death using poisons, ripping off arms and legs, sucking out brains is savage. Two of the methods used are D&E and suction. D&E is described well in the Gosnell trial testimony. Dr Karen Feisullin is a respected abortion provider. McMahon was the defense lawyer for Gosnell. McMahon: “From what I’ve seen, and you can correct me, you obviously know more about it than I do, the evacuation process can be one where tools are used and the pieces are pulled out; right? Dr Feisullin: “Right.” McMahon: “And you might pull out an arm or a leg or some portion of that?” Dr Feisullin: “Right.” With larger babies it is necessary to deliver the baby breached and then suction the brain. Dr Feisullin told the jury, “A suction catheter is inserted at the base of the skull to remove the contents of the head because the head is the largest part of the body that sometimes get stuck and the brain is suctioned out, grey matter is suctioned out, the skull collapses and it comes out easily.” Suction abortions are no less gory. The suction machine uses the same principle as a vacuum cleaner. It is then the job of a junior assistant to empty the jars that fill when the machine is turned on. Assistants need to reconstruct the baby from the contents of the jar to ensure that all the pieces have been removed. Any baby parts left behind could become infected and cause toxic shock. They literally have to find two arms, two legs and the other baby parts and put all the pieces together. That's what will be done now in Ireland by doctors for any reason. Yes voters can't have known, can they? Ann McElhinney is the co-author of the New York Times bestseller Gosnell-The Untold Story of America's Most Prolific Serial Killer. She is a producer and a screenwriter of the Gosnell Movie.
Samantha Bee, host of the TBS series “Full Frontal,” has attracted widespread criticism this week for her harsh rebuke of first daughter Ivanka Trump. In a segment of the program on Thursday, Bee vehemently denounced the Trump administration’s zero-tolerance border policy and its impact on immigrant families. She reserved particularly harsh judgement for Ivanka Trump, whom she said had demonstrated inaction on the issue. “Let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices you feckless c—,” she said. The rant sparked calls by some social media critics for her to be fired and her show canceled. Many others, including White House press secretary Sarah Sanders, said her language was beyond the pale. TRENDING: Blue Wave Drying Up as Polls for NJ Senate Race Show Incumbent Dem. Struggling “The language used by Samantha Bee last night is vile and vicious,” she said, criticizing both the network and the political left in addition to the comedian. “The collective silence by the left and its media allies is appalling,” Sanders said in an interview with The Wrap. She went on to assert that Bee’s “disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast,” calling on Time Warner and TBS to “demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network.” Neither the network nor its parent corporation provided an immediate response to the outlet’s request for comment. Others, including NBC anchor Megyn Kelly, called out a perceived double standard given the swift cancellation of Roseanne Barr’s popular ABC sitcom following a tweet widely interpreted to be racist. This is disgusting. How is this acceptable? And how are we expected to take any of these publications seriously if they gleefully repost something like this at the same time they (rightfully) condemn @therealroseanne? You know the saying Love is Love? Well Hate is Hate. https://t.co/YTjmZQ4zMV — Megyn Kelly (@megynkelly) May 31, 2018 Should TBS fire Samantha Bee? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “This is disgusting,” the “Megyn Kelly Today” host tweeted. “How is this acceptable? And how are we expected to take any of these publications seriously if they gleefully repost something like this at the same time they (rightfully) condemn @therealroseanne? You know the saying Love is Love? Well Hate is Hate.” Former White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, who served for President George W. Bush, echoed Kelly’s sentiment in his own tweet. Compare ABC’s reaction to Roseanne Barr’s tweet w TBS’s non-reaction to Samantha Bee and you’ll see a double-standard in action. There’s no uprising against Bee. Why? Because she is liberal. Because the MSM protects Obama and his aides, but not Trump. The hypocrisy is sickening. — Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) May 31, 2018 RELATED: Ken Cuccinelli: Settling for the End of DACA “Compare ABC’s reaction to Roseanne Barr’s tweet w TBS’s non-reaction to Samantha Bee and you’ll see a double-standard in action,” he wrote. “There’s no uprising against Bee. Why? Because she is liberal. Because the MSM protects Obama and his aides, but not Trump. The hypocrisy is sickening.” In her controversial monologue, Bee suggested that the first daughter is uniquely positioned to influence her father on immigration and other issues. “He listens to you,” she said. “Put on something tight and low cut and tell your father to f—ing stop it. Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
A Southwest Airlines plane was forced to make an emergency landing in Northern California Wednesday afternoon after a passenger lit up onboard. Flight 1250 was heading from San Francisco to Los Angeles when the passenger reportedly started smoking pot in the airplane lavatory. KIM JONG UN WANTS TO OPEN BURGER JOINT AS 'SHOW OF GOODWILL' “It looked like that someone needed to smoke a joint on a plane, and he went into the bathroom, smoked his blunt, and set off the fire alarm,” passenger Jonathan Burkes told CBS Los Angeles. The pilot diverted the flight to San Jose Mineta International Airport, about 50 miles south of San Francisco, after reporting a “mechanical difficulty,” a spokeswoman for the San Jose airport told The Mercury News. The plane landed safely around 4:10 p.m. and the passenger accused of smoking was turned over to law enforcement. The remaining 32 passengers were put on different planes to continue on to their destination. Southwest Airlines released the following statement to Fox News regarding the incident: "Southwest Airlines flight 1250 with scheduled service from San Francisco to Los Angeles landed safely after diverting to San Jose following indications a Customer was allegedly smoking in the aft lavatory. The flight landed without incident where it was met by local law enforcement, and the Customer in question was turned over to local authorities. Our Employees in San Jose worked hard to accommodate the remaining 32 Customers on other aircraft to continue their journeys." FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS A similar incident occurred last December on a Southwest flight when a passenger threatened to “kill everybody” on the plane after disabling the smoke detector and smoking onboard.
Score one for civility. A controversial video game that would allow players to simulate a school shooting has been removed from its digital storefront after widespread criticism from parents, lawmakers, police and even gamers who trashed it as “morally corrupt.” In a statement late Tuesday, a spokesman for Valve Corporation, which runs the digital distribution storefront Steam, said it removed the developer, Revived Games, and its publisher, Acid, from the platform for introducing the game, “Active Shooter.” “This developer and publisher is, in fact, a person calling himself Ata Berdiyev, who had previously been removed last fall when he was operating as ‘[bc]Interactive’ and ‘Elusive Team,’” the statement read. “Ata is a troll, with a history of customer abuse, published copyright material, and user review manipulation. His subsequent return under new business names was a fact that came to light as we investigated the controversy around his upcoming title. We are not going to do business with people who act like that towards our customers or Valve.” Doug Lombardi, a spokesman for Valve, said the company will also have a “broader conversation” soon about all content on its online platform, which planned to charge between $5 and $10 starting on June 6 for the game. More than 194,000 people as of Wednesday signed an online petition demanding that Valve, a Washington state-based firm, pull the plug on the “horrific” game, in which users could play either as a mass shooter or as a member of a responding SWAT team. “The company is taking the stand that this game is legal because of free speech and everything else that tech billionaires hide behind when they are doing something the public knows is absolutely morally corrupt but legally fine — but we cannot stand for this,” the petition read. “How can anyone sleep at night knowing that they are profiting from turning deadly school shootings into entertainment?” Andrew Pollack, whose 18-year-old daughter, Meadow, was killed during the Feb. 14 massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, told the Miami Herald that the “sick people” behind the game were contributing to the desensitization to violence that ultimately claimed the life of his daughter. “The last thing we need is a simulated training on school shooting,” Pollack told the newspaper. “Video game designers should think of the influence they hold. This really crosses the line.” A description of the game includes a disclaimer for players not to “take any of this seriously” and to seek professional help if they start to feel like hurting other people. “This is only meant to be the simulation and nothing else,” the website reads. Stephanie Robinett, a mother from Seattle, started the petition because she was tired of children being gunned down in shootings at schools throughout the country, a representative from Change.org confirmed to The Post. Other Revived Games titles are also no longer available on Steam, including “Tyde Pod Challenge” and “White Power: Pure Voltage.” Berdiyev, meanwhile, was previously booted from Valve’s platform after releasing a game called “Piccled Ricc” based on an episode of Cartoon Network’s “Rick and Morty.” In that game, Berdiyev utilized pre-purchased video game assets and combined them with crude cartoon models, leading to a copyright complaint issue, Motherboard reported.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Roseanne is canceled... Dana Perino, former White House Press Secretary, co-host of Fox News Channel's "The Five" and host of "The Daily Briefing" and Chris Stirewalt Fox News Politics Editor and host of "Power Play", run through the daily goings on in the world of politics. This week, Dana and Chris discuss what it takes to go from having a successful television show on a Monday to being unemployed on a Tuesday. Plus, the President makes a trip to the Volunteer State, a shake up in Missouri and Founding Fathers trivia. LISTEN to "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What": Follow Dana Perino on Twitter: @DanaPerino and Facebook Plus pick up her books: "And The Good News Is..." and "Let Me Tell You About Jasper" now available in paperback. Follow Chris Stirewalt on Twitter: @ChrisStirewalt and subscribe to his political news note: 'FOX News Halftime Report' And pre-order his new book: "Every Man A King: A Short, Colorful History of American Populists" Click HERE for more "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What"
A distillery in a small Spanish town has claimed it invented the original Coca-Cola recipe and now wants recognition. The recipe for what was originally called “Kola-coca” is reportedly kept in a safe at Destilerías Ayelo, in the village of Aielo de Malferit, south of Valencia, so the owner Juan Juan Micó, 79, claims. The drink Kola-cocoa is said to be a precursor to the now world-famous brand, according to Micó and the village’s officials. Although there is no direct proof that Coca-Cola started life in Spain, the village’s authorities have written to the US company asking permission to publicly explain the connection. The people in the village of just 4,700 inhabitants believe the syrup that John Pemberton used in Coca-Cola was originally concocted by the local distillery. The town’s mayor, José Luis Pinter, told Spanish newspaper El País: “Everything points to this being the case. Our aim is to get Coca-Cola to acknowledge the project so that the town will get recognition. We’re not seeking anything more than that.” The original Coca-Cola recipe contained coca leaves, kola nuts and soda water with the only difference with Kola-coca was that the Spanish drink was mixed with fresh rather than soda water. While Coca-Cola became a worldwide popular drink, Kola-coca eventually went out of production. People in the village believe that reps from Coca-Cola visited the distillery to buy up Kola-coca. The owners allegedly sold the brand for between €180 to €300 ($209-$349). According to the story, the distillery was opened by three local entrepreneurs — Enrique Ortiz, Ricardo Sanz and Bautista Aparici — 138 years ago. Aparici was the sales representative for the trio and traveled around marketing their products with a suitcase of samples — including the “Kola-coca Superior Syrup.” It’s believed he went to Philadelphia in 1885 and that a year later Pemberton put Coca-Cola on the market in Atlanta. A Coca-Cola spokesman told the paper: “The brand has taken off in such a way that it now belongs to the entire world. This has happened in other parts of the world and for us, it’s a source of pride.”
Australians won’t be able to purchase goods from Amazon’s international websites after July 1 thanks to a sales tax on overseas purchases, leaving room for competitors to take advantage of Amazon’s smaller presence in the country. Australia will implement a 10 percent Goods and Services Tax on online overseas purchases under $1,000 AUD, or about $756 USD. The GST currently applies to items sold overseas for over $1,000 AUD. Amazon is leaving its Australian customers without access to any of its other websites except for the much smaller Australian website, which is about one-tenth the size of the U.S. website, according to Reuters. “While we regret any inconvenience this may cause customers, we have had to assess the workability of the legislation as a global business with multiple international sites,” an Amazon spokesman said. The $500 million to $700 million AUD ($376 million to $527 million USD) that Australians spent on all Amazon websites represented about 10 percent of all online overseas spending, Australian Financial Review reported Thursday. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Amazon’s competitor eBay said it will not follow in Amazon’s footsteps. “eBay customers love the fact that we have a huge selection of over one billion listings across eBay’s global marketplaces so we are working on a solution that enables Aussie buyers to continue to shop from all eBay sites, while also capturing the required GST,” a spokeswoman said. “eBay’s GST solution will allow us to collect GST in any currency, from any seller, from any eBay site. It also allows imports to Australia to continue without any structural barriers, redirects or blocks to the buyer experience,” the spokewoman added. “This requires major changes to eBay’s global systems and we are working to have these ready by July 1.” The online auction site announced on Tuesday it’s launching eBay Plus, a subscription-based service in Australia that offers free country-wide shipping and returns. Do you think this new tax is unnecessary? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “We know our customers love the value and convenience of online shopping but our research shows the cost of delivery can stack up over time,” Tim MacKinnon, managing director of eBay Australia & New Zealand, said in a statement on Tuesday. Alibaba, a Chinese-based Amazon competitor, said it is preparing to implement the GST, though it remains critical of the tax system. “The implementation of this tax is difficult and requires many changes to Alibaba’s systems,” a spokesman said. Australian Treasurer Scott Morrison called out against Amazon and its CEO, Jeff Bezos. “The second-biggest company in the world, run by the richest man in the world, shouldn’t get a leave pass from paying tax in Australia,” Morrison told Reuters in an email on Thursday. RELATED: The Supreme Court Case That Could Change Online Shopping Overnight “If multinationals aren’t forced to pay their fair share of tax, they will have a competitive advantage over retailers here in Australia, on our own main streets and in our shopping centers,” he added. Ed Husic, the Australian Labor Party’s digital economy spokesman, said Australian customers will feel ripped off by the GST. “For a lot of consumers who like to be able to hop on to other platforms in other countries, to test out prices or be able to buy stuff they can’t get there here, they will feel really ripped off,” he said. “Consumers who might have been able to get something they wanted, that they couldn’t get in Australia, have now had the door shut on them.” Morrison lashed out against Australia’s Labor Party for its criticism of the GST, saying he is “disappointed, but not surprised, the Labor Party has once again chosen to side with the big multinationals to try and protect them from paying their fair share of tax in Australia.” Husic said that “the government could easily have sat down and tried to work this out. They didn’t. They have no one to blame but themselves.” A version of this article appeared on The Daily Caller News Foundation website. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallern ewsfoundation.org. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
A new report says the D.C. U.S. Attorney’s office recently interviewed fired FBI Director James Comey, in what is being described as “an indication the office is seriously considering” whether former bureau Deputy Andrew McCabe should face criminal charges. The Washington Post writes: Justice Department Inspector General Michael E. Horowitz accused McCabe in April of misleading investigators and Comey four times — three of them under oath — about authorizing a disclosure to the media. Horowitz referred the findings to the D.C. U.S. Attorney’s Office to determine whether criminal charges are warranted. Lying to federal investigators can carry a five-year prison sentence, though McCabe disputes that he intentionally misled anyone. Comey’s interview, while significant, does not indicate prosecutors have reached any conclusions, and people familiar with the process said it is not surprising given the allegations McCabe faces. A referral from the inspector general does not guarantee charges will be filed. McCabe’s attorney, Michael Bromwich, issued a statement in response to what he describes as an “extremely disturbing” leak from the U.S. Attorney’s Office. “A little more than a month ago, we confirmed that we had been advised that a criminal referral to the U.S. Attorney’s Office had been made regarding Mr. McCabe. We said at that time that we were confident that, unless there is inappropriate pressure from high levels of the Administration, the U.S. Attorney’s Office would conclude that it should decline to prosecute. Our view has not changed.” Attorney General Jeff Sessions, acting on the recommendation of the FBI’s Office of Professional Responsibility, terminated McCabe on March 16. BREAKING: FBI's Andrew McCabe fired effective immediately after investigation found he "made an unauthorized disclosure to the news media and lacked candor − including under oath − on multiple occasions," Attorney General Jeff Sessions announces. https://t.co/dIITeseGeU pic.twitter.com/uOvDeC1Ry1 — ABC News (@ABC) March 17, 2018 “The FBI’s OPR then reviewed the report and underlying documents and issued a disciplinary proposal recommending the dismissal of Mr. McCabe. Both the OIG and FBI OPR reports concluded that Mr. McCabe had made an unauthorized disclosure to the news media and lacked candor − including under oath − on multiple occasions,” Sessions said in a statement. “Pursuant to Department Order 1202, and based on the report of the Inspector General, the findings of the FBI Office of Professional Responsibility, and the recommendation of the Department’s senior career official, I have terminated the employment of Andrew McCabe effective immediately.” In January, McCabe had reportedly stepped down as FBI Deputy Director and planned to remain on “leave” until spring, in order to be fully eligible for his pension.
The raging controversy over National Football League player protests against racial injustice – and the new NFL rule saying players have to stand for the national anthem or stay in the locker room while it is played – has divided fans, the league and players. It’s time to heal those divisions and unite, remembering that all of us are members of the same team – the United States of America. Our national anthem and American flag are, after all, declarations of national unity and gratitude for the country we love. So is the Pledge of Allegiance, an inspirational call for "liberty and justice for all." Like an unexpected blitz in football, crises like the one facing the NFL today, involving some players kneeling while the national anthem is played, present not only a challenge but an opportunity. Blitzes are sudden attacks on the offense, a crisis with both danger and opportunity. Great teams don't panic, get defensive or isolate themselves in a blitz. They communicate early and often, make adjustments on the fly and seize the opportunity to move the ball down the field together. This is what the NFL and we all must do as a nation. We have to get through the arguments over kneeling and get about the important work of making our country more just and dynamic for everyone – regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, religion, income level or any other distinctions. Our family knows football. We were pro football quarterbacks and faced many blitzes. So did our late father, Jack Kemp, who quarterbacked for 13 years in the NFL and American Football League. Our father won two championships with the Buffalo Bills before serving as a Republican member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Buffalo, New York and then as secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Our bleeding-heart conservative father – who led the AFL Players Association during his playing days – taught us that American success does not leave anyone behind, that we should care for the underdog, and that we should follow the model of the Good Shepherd. Today the blitz that America is facing is injustice anywhere, like the unresolved case of NFL Players Coalition leader Anquan Boldin's cousin, Corey Jones, who was shot by an off-duty police officer in 2015. Players see the threat of a criminal justice system biased against people of color, instances of police brutality and urban decay. All damage faith in our system. The blitz is also the reduction of this American moment in history to nothing but politicized debates, derogatory name-calling and dictated workplace rules. Winning must include us all. Kneeling during any nation’s anthem is disrespectful. But it’s also disrespectful to give anthem debates more attention than advancing the American Idea of justice for all and opportunity in every one of our communities. With courageous and discerning efforts by the Players Coalition and others, NFL players and owners began coming together last year. Kneeling protests were waning and the partnership between players and owners – including a $90 million down payment by the league to be used to advance social justice causes – was growing. But now there is a risk of dropping the conversation and adopting rules requiring all players to stand for the anthem (or stay off the field), with the threat of new forms of protest looming. Rules without relationship simply fuel rebellion. The onus is on the league – as well as the players – to fuel relationship and respect. A collective win for the NFL and America can come when the league and players answer these questions: Players: How can we gain the largest participation by teammates, owners and fans in our effort to tackle injustice? Owners: How can we increase the communication and trust with players and fans? Both: How can we make the NFL the best it can be for fans and for America by impacting crucial social causes in non-political ways? The NFL should call an audible on the new rule against protests during playing of the national anthem. The rule may sound like a good idea, but it will cause more problems than it will solve. Instead of pressing forward with the new rule, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, owners and players should continue the good work they started with the Players Coalition, which is aimed at fighting discrimination, injustice and a lack of equal opportunity. Together, they could also define an anthem policy that honors the nation, the fans and the players. The owners, Players Coalition and NFL Players Association can address their new post-anthem rule problems (loss of player trust, muzzling player voices and bad public relations) by identifying the current divide between them and resolving the blitz at hand through comprehensive communication. This will reduce the players’ impulse to protest because it will respond to their concerns in a proactive way. The NFL has invested considerable time talking to some players and working on this issue. The new "anthem rule" is like a failed strategy in a pre-season game. The league can admit that, call the Players Coalition and Players Association into a huddle and aim for a win-win solution instead of a cautious defensive move. By working with the league, players could create a 1,700-player united front instead of the relatively small number who have joined the kneelers. Most players care about the issues being raised but don’t want to kneel during the anthem. Players can create ways to participate that don’t put their own careers unnecessarily at odds with fans, owners, politicians and anyone who interprets protests against the anthem as protests against the flag the military, and loyalty to America. Working together, the owners and players can produce solutions that are patriotic, progressive and profitable – both financially and socially – for everyone involved, raising awareness and drawing attention to important issues without tarnishing the anthem or flag. The best ideas will come from the players like those who cared enough to create the Players Coalition, but here’s one we suggest: a collective move to kneel for 15 seconds before or after the national anthem and to verbally make it crystal clear what that kneeling means – no confusion with an attack on the flag, but an extension of what it represents. “Taking a knee” could then be legitimately described as a call and commitment to problem-solving and justice solutions. We’d kneel for that. Professional football has an epic influence in America, and now is the time to use it for good, not just to cast blame or merely prevent political and fan backlash. The NFL and its players can show America how to face a blitz – how to address crucial problems in America, and how to protect the dignity of our anthem and flag. As our father – who started playing pro football in 1957 – told us, the game has a history of combating racism and bringing America together. We grew up hearing the story of the 1965 American Football League All-Star Game that was scheduled to be played in New Orleans – a locale that immediately signaled danger for some of the players selected to play. African-American players like Ernie Warlick, Cookie Gilchrist and Paul Lowe could not use cabs, eat at restaurants, or stay in the same hotels as their white teammates. Though a relatively small minority then, the affected players told our father – one of the team captains – that they weren’t going to play in the segregated city. The rest of the team heard the black players out, discussed the problem and collectively boycotted New Orleans. This prompted the league to relocate the game to Houston, where the same level of racial discrimination would not divide the players. Stories like this illustrate what we were taught about the American Idea – that in this great country, the condition of one's birth should never determine the outcome of one’s life. It also demonstrated that standing up for building a more perfect union is everyone’s responsibility. In many ways, conditions have improved since the blatant racism surrounding that All-Star Game in 1965. And yet, in 2018 issues of race, poverty and injustice have become murkier. They can be harder to pin down and solve. Football players, of course, are only a tiny sliver of the population. What can the rest of us do? We can take the concern for improved race relations personally – not politically. We can include every American, especially those left behind, when we aim to win as a nation. Invite someone to dinner this summer – folks from a different race, religion or background. Learn their story and experiences with police, injustice and American opportunity. And whether in conversation or social media, let’s follow the dinner table rule: Debate issues and tactics, but don’t call others names or malign the motives of either side. A fresh dose of humility and civility will do us all good. The American Idea is that we have inalienable rights regardless of skin color, religion or any other possible distinctions. The NFL provides dynamic entertainment, opportunity and life lessons about this great idea for those who play and watch. The league and its players have an opportunity to make patriotism more than gestures. They can collectively address the civic concerns that prompted the kneeling in the first place. Since the protests began, most of the public rhetoric has gone toward debate and posturing about the anthem protest, and not enough time and energy have been devoted to seeking solutions to bring about justice and opportunity for all. With a few wise moves by the NFL and its players, this could change immediately and with dramatic effect. Beating this blitz and seizing this American moment will take a gutsy, compassionate and solution-oriented effort to lift America closer to her ideals of liberty and justice for all. It’s an important job for us all. Jimmy Kemp played eight years in the CFL and is president of the Jack Kemp Foundation, dedicated to advancing the American Idea.
NEWPORT NEWS, Va. — A federal jury has convicted a Virginia woman on fraud and tax charges after prosecutors said she charged over a half-million dollars on her boss’s credit cards. Sherea Darnell is a former manager at a Williamsburg eye care center. Prosecutors say she used the doctor’s credit cards to charge some $514,000 in personal transactions, including her son’s preschool tuition. The jury heard from prosecutors that she also took over $90,000 in cash advances from the credit cards, using it to hire maid services and buy clothing and airline tickets. Authorities say that after her resignation from the eye center, Darnell continued to use her boss’s cards until the doctor finally discovered the fraud. Darnell faces a maximum penalty of 30 years. Sentencing is set for October.
Note to Sanjay Tripathy — a “date” doesn’t end with one party bloodied, strangled, sexually assaulted and held against her will. That’s the message a Manhattan jury sent the tech executive Wednesday, finding him guilty of brutalizing a woman he met through a “sugar daddy” website in June 2016. His accuser sat trembling in the courtroom as the 12 men and women returned their verdict of guilty on all five counts. She testified at trial that after they arrived at his room at the posh W hotel in midtown, the married dad threatened to kill her before he punched her in the face some 20 times and forced her to perform oral sex on him. The 38-year-old, who runs a skin care line, told jurors she and Tripathy arranged to have dinner at Zuma, and then returned to the bar at the W. He invited her up to his room saying he had something for her, she testified, and then pounced on her. “He said, ‘I am going to kill you. You are going to die,’” assistant district attorney Kristen Baraiola told jurors in her openings, describing how blood from the victim’s face splattered the hotel room walls and bedspread as Tripathy pummeled her. Tripathy showed no reaction as the verdict was read. He faces up to 25 years behind bars. The duo met on SeekingArrangments, a website which describes itself as connecting wealthy older men with “sugar babies.” “You’ve been nothing but a gentleman while in this courtroom, but I am going to remand you,” Manhattan Supreme Court Justice Erika Edwards told Tripathy as she revoked the IT man’s $750,000 bond and ordered him immediately jailed. Defense attorney Frank Rothman said he intends to appeal the conviction, adding “obviously I wholeheartedly disagree with the verdict.” “I think this verdict was based on the photographs, which don’t tell the whole story of what this case is about,” Rothman said. Jurors saw nearly a dozen horrifying photos of the woman taken at the hospital afterward, showing her swollen and bruised face, lips and neck. Tripathy took the stand last week to admit he’d punched her, but said it was only because she tried to extort him following a consensual sexual encounter. He’s scheduled to return to court July 18 for sentencing.
The Midwest as a whole received relatively high grades in an annual rating of states’ manufacturing industries, but Illinois’ manufacturing sector is still struggling due to an unpredictable economic climate and unfunded public liabilities. The 2017 Manufacturing & Logistics Report Card gave Illinois a “C+” for the overall health of its manufacturing industries, but the state earned a “D” in the “Tax Climate” category and an “F” in “Expected Fiscal Liability Gap.” That latter estimates the state’s ability – or inability – to fund bond obligations and pension costs. Illinois also received an average grade – “C+” – in “Human Capital,” which measures the education level of the state’s workforce in an effort to gauge how well it is serving manufacturers. The study gave Michigan an “A” for the health of its manufacturing sector, while Ohio and Wisconsin both received “B” grades. Mark Denzler, vice president and chief operating officer of the Illinois Manufacturers Association, echoed some of the points made in the Ball University study. “Manufacturing is alive in Illinois,” Denzler told Illinois News Network, noting that manufacturers in the state employ about 570,000 people. “However, it is struggling.” The state’s strengths include good colleges and universities and a great transit system, according to Denzler. “Seventy-five percent of the nation’s freight comes through Illinois,” he said. But an out-migration of jobs to other states and workers compensation costs that are the highest in the Midwest and eighth highest in the country continue to add to the state’s economic uncertainties, Denzler said. Although Denzler said today’s manufacturing workforce in Illinois is second to none, the employers continue to deal with a skills gap as they try to hire new workers. Manufacturers need to hire 20,000 to 25,000 production workers and 5,000 engineers every year just to remain at a constant level, he said. “The governor has put a focus on vocational education and trying to provide workers with the skills needed,” Denzler said, but lately there has been no money for job-training programs. Manufacturers have some advantages in the near future, including a growing advanced-manufacturing industry around the Chicago area, he said. But the state needs major structural reforms and begin to live within its means, according to Denzler. “Quite frankly, Illinois needs to change its focus moving forward,” he said. Illinois did end it’s more than two-year-long budget stalemate last week, but it came at a high cost to both businesses and workers, who will both see tax increases. “[Last week’s] action by the Illinois legislature will speed up the loss of manufacturing jobs and will further decimate our economy,” Greg Baise, president and CEO of the Illinois Manufacturers Association, said shortly after the state House voted to override Gov. Bruce Rauner’s vetoes of the tax hikes and budget bills. Those knowledgeable about the manufacturing industries in other Midwest states questioned some of the conclusions in the Ball State University study. Kurt Bauer, president and CEO of Wisconsin Manufacturers and Commerce, took issue with the state’s “C-” grade in the “Tax Climate” category. “I don’t think the Ball State report recognizes that Wisconsin’s Manufacturers and Agricultural Production Tax Credit reduces the corporate tax liability for qualifying companies from 7.9 percent to 0.4 percent,” Bauer said in an email to Illinois News Network. “Combine that with our right-to-work status and our recent regulatory and litigation reforms, and Wisconsin is clearly one of the most attractive states for manufacturing in the U.S.” All of Illinois’ neighbors are right-to-work states – meaning employees can opt out of joining a union if they choose – which is another competitive disadvantage. Professor Edward Hill, a faculty member at the Ohio Manufacturing Institute, took issue with some of the variables the study used to give Ohio a “C-” in “Human Capital.” The six states receiving “A” grades in this category were Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Dakota and Washington. “There are good manufacturers in many of these states, but none, with the exception of Washington and possibly Minnesota, can be claimed as centers of exceptionally skilled pools of manufacturing workers,” Hill said. Still, Ohio is not doing particularly well in providing the type of skilled workers manufacturers need, he said, but all states likely have this problem. “Manufacturers themselves are just waking up and taking ownership of the problem … and reinventing secondary and community college manufacturing training programs,” Hill said. In Ohio, major employers such as Honda, Minster Machine, Lincoln Electric and Yaskawa Motoman are working hand-in-hand with educators to turn out a more skilled workforce, he said. “We will see progress over the coming year,” Hill said. Though Michigan was rated a top performer in manufacturing, it received “D” grades in both “Human Capital” and “Sector Diversification” in the Ball State study. “It’s all tuned to just transportation,” Devaraj said, adding that the lack of diversification in Michigan’s manufacturing economy means that if any shocks hit that industry, the impact for the state as a whole will be major. Recently released economic forecasts for Michigan have been positive. A University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, study said that the state recorded 28 straight quarters of payroll growth through the first quarter of 2017. But job growth should moderate through 2018, the report said. “Manufacturing employment declines modestly over the forecast, reflecting the slowdown in the light vehicle sector,” the University of Michigan forecast said. Devaraj stressed that manufacturing remains a key player in the U.S. economy, even as productivity gains have held down employment growth. Increased skill attainment by workers will help lower the risk of them being replaced by automation, he said. “In reality, things are going really well in terms of manufacturing,” Devaraj said. Back in Illinois, the state earned an “A” for the health of its logistics industries. That was due to a number of Illinois’ assets, including its central location, the value of shipped goods in the state and an efficient transportation system. “Chicago is leading the pack in terms of the commodities flows,” Devaraj told Illinois News Network.
On Wednesday’s “Full Frontal” on TBS, host Samantha Bee slammed the Trump administration over separating children from their families at the border and urged Ivanka Trump “do something about your dad’s immigration practices you feckless c*nt.” Bee said, “Ivanka Trump, who works at the White House, chose to post the second most oblivious tweet we’ve seen this week. You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c*nt. He listens to you. Put on something tight and low-cut and tell your father to fucking stop it. Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes, OK?” TBS is a Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., company, which in turn is owned by Time Warner, Inc. Follow Breitbart.tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideo
The Merlion statue sits lit up in front of the city skyline in Singapore. The space-starved city, recently voted the world's most expensive place to live for the fifth year in a row, will host the upcoming North Korea-US peace summit next month, according to President Donald Trump. The meeting between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and Trump will take place June 12. AFP/Getty Images
Mysterious explosions plague Pennsylvania suburbs A mysterious set of explosions in the suburbs of Philadelphia over the past two months has strained emergency responses to other calls and left authorities in Pennsylvania asking for help... Mom of 10 intentionally burned baby with straightener: cops A 28-year-old mom of 10 is accused of burning her infant child on purpose with a hair straightener, according to reports. Stephanie Nicole Rodriguez of Lubbock, Texas, was indicted by... Cryptic emergency alert sends Oregon city into panic SALEM, Ore. — Oregon’s emergency alert systems blasted a cryptic alert to cellphones around the capital city, panicking residents by telling them simply “Civil Emergency” and “Prepare for Action” and... Mom of 'kidnapped' baby found dead in diaper box charged CHESTERFIELD, S.C. — The mother of an 11-month-old baby found dead in a diaper box near her South Carolina home has been charged with lying to police and improperly disposing... Woman defends drunk driving: 'Jesus drank wine and so did I' This drunk driving suspect says she’s just a follower of Christ. After allegedly boozing behind the wheel Sunday night, Nicole Ann Mintner defended herself to police by telling arresting officers... Teen indicted for killing girlfriend, discarding body on driveway A upstate New York teen was indicted for allegedly killing his girlfriend inside an acquaintance’s house, then leaving her body on the driveway. Jermaine Brown, 17, was charged Wednesday by... Police under fire for 'warning' about Zika-contaminated meth An Ohio police department took to Facebook this week with a faux advisory for meth users about Zika. “WARNING: If you have recently purchased Meth in Preble, Montgomery, Darke or... Giuliani: Trump won't fire Sessions, Rosenstein before end of Russia probe WASHINGTON – President Trump has no plans to fire Attorney General Jeff Sessions before the Russia probe is completed, the president’s lawyer said Wednesday. Rudy Giuliani told reporters outside the... Man caught masturbating tells cops he's Captain Kirk A man who was captured masturbating in public on Monday told Florida police officers he was Captain Kirk from “Star Trek.” Officers from the Clearwater Police Department were called to...
Ending Medicaid expansion in Arkansas would be “unbiblical,” Gov. Asa Hutchinson said during a March 17 radio interview. Hutchinson officially opposes the 2010 federal health law. But, like Ohio Gov. John Kasich, Hutchinson supports the law’s new federal spending to put working-age adults with no kids and no disabilities on Medicaid. Hutchinson echoed Kasich’s faith-based Obamacare rhetoric in an interview with Doc Washburn on Newsradio 102.9 KARN, insisting his Arkansas Works plan would use Medicaid expansion funding to help the poor. Without Medicaid expansion, Hutchinson said, “we’re ending any type of coverage for that waitress in the diner that’s struggling to make a living, that for the first time has some health insurance. But we’d be continuing to subsidize that middle-income person who goes on the exchange to get their insurance that the government helps pay for.” Under Obamacare, Arkansans with incomes ranging from 100-400 percent of the poverty line can purchase subsidized health insurance through HealthCare.gov. Obamacare’s optional Medicaid expansion covers anyone with income at or below 138 percent of the poverty line. “That is fundamentally unfair,” Hutchinson continued, “and I think it’s quite frankly unbiblical that we would forget the least of these and say we’re going to continue to provide taxpayers’ money to help the more wealthy or those that have more income.” Kasich — a fellow Republican — frequently uses the Bible to threaten Obamacare critics as he travels the country promoting Medicaid expansion. “When ya get to see St. Peter he’s not gonna ask, ‘Did you balance the budget?’” Kasich said during an October 2014 campaign stop. “He’s going to say, whether he’s Peter or whether he’s Jacob, ‘What’d you do for the least of those?’” RELATED: Kasich says the Bible supports Obamacare Hutchinson also told Washburn that rejecting Medicaid expansion would mean “sending our money to Washington, we’re getting nothing for [it],” a common refrain from Kasich as he pushed for Medicaid expansion in Ohio. Governor Steve Bullock, a Democrat, borrowed a similar Kasich talking point to pressure Republican lawmakers into expanding Medicaid in Montana last year. "Turning down your money back to MT on an ideological basis…doesn't make a lot of sense to me,"-OH Repub Gov Kasich http://t.co/czPrW919BK — Steve Bullock (@GovernorBullock) January 22, 2015 In Ohio, Kasich ultimately circumvented the General Assembly for his Medicaid expansion after failing to persuade legislators to support it. Hutchinson’s Arkansas Works plan centers on waivers meant to make the proposal more palatable to Republican legislators. Arkansas Works would replace the state’s Private Option, a budget-busting Medicaid expansion program Hutchinson agreed to end this year. Any waivers for enrollee work requirements or cost-sharing would require approval from the Obama administration, which has rejected similar requests from other states. State Rep. Josh Miller, a Republican from Heber Springs, has been fighting the Private Option since before its launch in 2014. Miller thinks Hutchinson’s recent comments prove his Arkansas Works waiver requests are primarily for show. “You can never negotiate a deal that works well for you when you show up with your hat in your hand,” Miller told Watchdog.org. “When I ran a bill to eliminate waiting lists for 3,000 Arkansans who have severe developmental disabilities, the governor came out in opposition to that,” Miller said. “I wish he’d had his same dedication to the scriptures in regard to those 3,000 Arkansans who are truly our most vulnerable population.” “What the governor said smells a lot like dedication to line the pockets of big insurance companies, and it also smells a lot like bovine defecation,” Miller said. Citing the bill to resolve Medicaid waiting lists for the disabled, Miller’s opponent in the March 1 primary — who was endorsed and funded by Hutchinson — ran a radio ad painting Miller as an Obamacare supporter. Miller won the primary by 50 points. It’s “ridiculous,” Miller said, “to call into question members of the legislature’s faith who think we don’t need to put our state and our nation into more of a tailspin of unmanageable debt.” “I don’t think the governor did himself any favors with the legislature,” he added. To win lawmakers’ support for Arkansas Works, Hutchinson has sought to distinguish his plan from the Private Option, and the Private Option from Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion. Before Hutchinson declared rolling back Medicaid expansion “unbiblical,” Arkansas radio host Paul Harrell noted in February that the governor — a former member of the U.S. House of Representatives — said Medicaid expansion wasn’t part of Obamacare only days before conceding it was a key component of Obamacare. The governor has a receptive audience for Arkansas Works in the State Senate, where Private Option supporters Jane English, Lance Eads, and Eddie Joe Williams won contested primaries this month with Hutchinson’s help. Hutchinson’s office did not respond to a request for comment.
A Manhattan woman who miraculously survived when a shopping cart crashed down on her head from an eight-story overpass , told a rapt courtroom Wednesday that her life was forever shattered by the attack Marion Hedges broke down in tears as she told rapt jurors how the traumatic 2011 incident at the East River Plaza— where two teens hurled a shopping cart from a 79-foot-high landing outside a Harlem Target store — turned her world upside down, starting with her role as a mom. “I adore my daughter,” Hedges said, referring to her oldest, Elizabeth, now 21. “Unfortunately she doesn’t want to be with me. She’s angry at me after my injury. She went to go live with my mother-in-law,” Hedges testified in Manhattan Supreme Court. “I annoy her, I disgust her. I’m fat. I don’t know how to dress. I have no fashion sense,” said Hedges, a former marketing agent for Valentino and Upper West Side philanthropist. Her son Dayton, 20, was at the mall with his mom buying Halloween candy when the cart came crashing down. He watched as a passing medical resident had to revive her heart. Dayton had been a confident, star athlete before the incident, but the trauma sapped him of that drive, she said. “He had a presence back then. It just breaks my heart how he doesn’t have that oomph now,” Hedges tearfully testified. She momentarily regained her composure as she spoke in the civil court trial about one of the most difficult repercussions of her brain injuries — her incontinence. “It’s embarrassing and awful to say but I disgust myself. I don’t want to have sex with someone when I’m wearing a diaper,” she said frankly. “I don’t want him touching me. I don’t want him coming near me,” she said, gesturing to her husband, who sat stoically in the courtroom. She and Michael Hedges, a financier, have been married since 1991. He gently embraced her during a break in the testimony. see also Woman settles with Target over horrific shopping-cart toss An Upper East Side mom who was nearly killed when... The Hedges are suing the East River Plaza mall, and its security company Planned Security Services for unspecified damages. They settled with Target in 2016 for an undisclosed amount. The two teenagers who pushed the cart over the walkway were sentenced to juvenile facilities in 2012.​ During cross examination the mall’s lawyer, Mathew Ross, tried to show that Hedges wasn’t as harmed by the accident as she’d claimed by showing the jury photos of her at a friend’s wedding without her cane or glasses. “It would be fair to say that during the reception you were talking to your friends, you were having a good time?” Ross asked. “I’m not embarrassed to say I went to a wedding,” Hedges replied. The trial is expected to run through the middle of June.
When the Astros signed Jose Altuve to an extension that carried through 2024 and his age-34 season, they were gambling he would stay on track with Pete Rose and Derek Jeter. Notice the word “stay.” Because so often it is difficult to appreciate greatness in the moment. But understand in Altuve you are watching one of the great hit accumulators in major league history. When Altuve produced two more hits Tuesday night against the Yankees that gave him 1,326 hits through 1,038 career games during his age-28 season. Rose recorded two hits in a doubleheader opener on Sept. 8, 1969. That gave him 1,287 hits through 1,038 games during his age-28 season. Jeter singled on July 29, 2002. That gave him 1,327 hits through 1,038 games during his age-28 season. The similarities between Altuve and Jeter, in particular, go beyond a one-hit difference through the same number of games played. They were both championship middle infielders by their 28th birthday – Jeter four times, Altuve once. When Altuve delivered those two hits Tuesday against the Yankees it gave him 378 multi-hit games through those 1,038 career games. You know how many Jeter had at the same point? Yep, 378. Just an aside here, but I looked at multi-hit games through the age-28 season and Jeter had 395. You know who had 381? Jose Reyes. A reminder in this horrific season for Reyes about the arc we once thought he was following. Now, back to our show. Weighted Runs Created Plus is a singular stat designed to weigh all offensive outcomes (for example, a double is better than a single, a triple better than a double, etc.) while factoring in effect of league and park. Through 1,038 games Jeter was 26 percent better than the MLB average, Altuve was 25 percent. Altuve was hitting .317 with 371 extra-base hits and 237 steals compared to Jeter .319, 352 extra-base hits and 159 steals. Jeter signed a 10-year extension in spring training going into his age-27 season and finished with the sixth-most hits ever (3,465). Rose was first (4,256). Both were durable hitting metronomes beyond the traditional prime. Altuve signed his extension this past spring training entering his age-28 campaign. Will he endure like Rose and Jeter? Among players who debuted in the Modern Era (since 1900), these are the players with the most hits through 1,038 games: 1. Ichiro Suzuki 1,478. 2. Wade Boggs, 1,411. 3. Kirby Puckett, 1,371. 4. Nomar Garciaparra, 1,354. 5. Tony Gwynn, 1,332. 6. Jeter, 1,327. T7. Altuve/Don Mattingly, 1,326 (thanks to Elias and MLB Network researcher Eric Nehs). The list is filled with players (Suzuki, Boggs, Gwynn, Jeter) who aged well, but also due to health reasons those who didn’t (Garciaparra, Puckett, Mattingly). Altuve, to date, has been durable and brilliant. He has played the fourth-most games since becoming a regular in 2013, including every Astros game this year. Altuve currently leads the majors in hits. If that holds, it would mean leading the AL in hits a fifth straight season. The only player who has led a league in hits five straight years is Suzuki (2006-10). “From my perspective, I think he ages well because of his vision and bat to ball skills,” Astros manager A.J. Hinch said. “Being a bad ball hitter so often shows me the ability to hit so many variety of pitches. He doesn’t have a glaring weakness offensively where teams can exploit him. That should lead to high hit totals. He is so elite at hitting everything.” And Altuve is getting hits against the greatest velocity ever, computer programs that more exactly reveal hitter’s areas of weakness and in the age of the shift. In 2002, when Jeter was 28, the major league batting average was .261. It is .245 this year. Yet, Altuve keeps hitting and hitting. He had four 200 hits seasons from 2014-17. The rest of the majors had eight with only Dee Gordon (twice) doing it more than once. From 2014 through Tuesday, Altuve had 921 hits. The second most in the majors belonged to Charlie Blackmon at 800. That gap of 121 hits is the same as between Blackmon and the guy who ranks 26th in that period, Anthony Rizzo. Can Altuve persevere like Jeter or Rose or Boggs? The Astros gambled that he is in that mold by giving him the largest contract in franchise history. However it goes, enjoy this moment when we are watching one of the great hit makers in major league history.
Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) spoke with Brian Kilmeade about the friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, why the FBI should have informed President Trump they had concerns about people involved in his campaign, Mitt Romney running for the Senate in Utah and the tombstone of President Andrew Jackson being vandalized. When asked about Congressman Trey Gowdy saying President Trump should speak with Robert Mueller, Senator Lee said, "I don't think it's that easy of a Choice" for the President to speak with Mueller. Plus, Senator Lee discussed his book "Written Out of History: The Forgotten Founders Who Fought Big Government" which is available now in paperback. Watch here:
Each season, 27 East — the main thoroughfare across the Hamptons — slows to a standstill. But savvy and well-heeled residents are finding ways to beat the traffic, buying in neighborhoods that are a quicker trip from the city — whether by car, plane or helicopter. Brokers say that sales in the most westerly Hamptons — a shorter drive from New York — have never been hotter. Areas west of the Shinnecock Canal (including Hampton Bays, Quogue and Westhampton) were once overlooked by posh shoppers but are now in demand. The $17.4 million listing price for 59 Dune Road, for example, would have been unthinkably ambitious in years past. But now the eight-bedroom, eight-bathroom mansion in East Quogue — boasting a gourmet kitchen, theater, wine cellar, pool, spa, outdoor kitchen and 113 feet of private beachfront — is competitively priced. And the fact that it’s just a two-hour drive from the city is a prime motivator for buyers. “East of the canal used to be considered the cool part of the Hamptons,” says Enzo Morabito of Douglas Elliman, who is marketing the property. “Now, once you cross [east of] the canal, you are just sitting in traffic and it becomes very, very annoying.” For buyers who prefer to take wing, 1400 Meadow Lane, on Southampton’s most moneyed strip, is just a skip from the Southampton Heliport. The new-construction modernist mansion may be asking $53.9 million, but it affords buyers the ultimate luxury: a roughly 30-minute door-to-door chopper flight from the city. (It also comes with nine bedrooms, 12 bathrooms, 10,927 square feet of living space overlooking the ocean, a tennis court, a theater, a wine cellar and an oversize garage — but it’s the commute that really counts.) Or for those alighting via private plane, the 18,000-square-foot estate at 38 Mathews Road (asking $59 million) is just a six-minute drive from the East Hampton airport landing strip — far enough away to escape the noise of incoming aircraft and close enough to avoid road rage. Designed by architect Francis Fleetwood, the eight-bedroom, two-elevator house sits on a 25-acre private peninsula on Georgica Pond. Ready for takeoff.
Lou Dobbs isn't holding back his anger when it comes to Mueller investigation. The Fox Business host says the idea that the FBI and Democrats spied on the Trump Campaign is the single biggest scandal in American history. On Friday's show, Dobbs sat down with Tom Shillue to discuss the latest on the Russian probe and allegations that the intelligence community spied on the Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential race. From the Robert Mueller's investigation team of Democrats to the media's attempts to frame the President, Dobbs told Tom he thinks this is all part of plot to attack, assault and stop Donald Trump's presidency. Dobbs says he also doesn't trust some of the Republicans who are apparently fighting for the President. For example, He says Trey Gowdy is "phony" who did nothing to hold Hillary Clinton accountable for Benghazi.
Saudi Arabia reportedly released videos of the kingdom’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (known as MBS) Wednesday and Thursday to combat rumors, broadcast through Iranian state media, that he was injured or dead as a result of a shooting outside the royal palace on April 21. CNN reported Wednesday that Saudi authorities had shared a video with them of MBS chairing a meeting for the Council of Economic Affairs and Development in Jeddah. The outlet did not publish the video and noted that it could not independently verify it, but did publish screengrabs. Prior to this, the royal kingdom had released a photograph of MBS chairing the same meeting. The video appears to be a newer release. Authorities also published a video Thursday of MBS allegedly meeting with President Abdrabbo Mansour Hadi of Yemen, also in Jeddah, according to Al Arabiya, a Saudi outlet. سمو #ولي_العهد الأمير #محمد_بن_سلمان والرئيس اليمني #هادي يبحثان المستجدات والتطورات على الساحة اليمنية والجهود المبذولة تجاهها، بالإضافة إلى الأعمال الإغاثية الإنسانية والتنموية للشعب اليمني الشقيق. pic.twitter.com/5aNBaVIoyG — بدر العساكر B.Asaker (@Badermasaker) May 30, 2018 Over the weekend, Iranian state-run media cited anti-Riyadh activist Mohammed al-Mas’ari, the secretary-general of the Islamic Revival Party, who suggested MBS was shot when heavy gunfire broke outside his family’s royal palace last month. Official Saudi media reported that an unauthorized drone flew over the area, prompting gunfire and an attempt to shoot the drown down. Breitbart News reported: “On the evening of April 21, a small drone reportedly triggered gunfire in the vicinity of the royal palace when it entered an off-limits zone. According to Russian state outlet RT, “Palace guards targeted a rogue drone which came too close to the king’s residence, some feared a terrorist attack or even an unfolding ‘coup.'” “Credible” Saudi sources reportedly “confirmed” to the Daily Pakistan Global that MBS was safe and spending the Ramadan holiday in Egypt with his family on special invitation from Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi. It is worth noting that MBS was on a world tour shortly before the April shooting incident. In recent months, an ongoing proxy war between Iran and Saudi Arabia in Yemen has intensified, particularly since MBS has taken on a larger role in his nation and its defense decisions. In its article citing the anti-Riyadh activist, Press TV opined that “the deadly Saudi campaign against Yemen has damaged bin Salman’s image both internationally and regionally.” Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.
President Trump signed a bill on Wednesday that will let terminally ill people use experimental drugs, citing the meds’ ability to save “tremendous numbers of lives.” “As I proudly sign this bill, thousands of terminally ill Americans will finally have the help, the hope, and the fighting chance ​. . . that they will be cured, that they will be helped, that they’ll be able to be with their families for a long time or maybe just for a longer time​,” he said at a White House ceremony. He signed the bill, called Right to Try, ​joined by Vice President Mike Pence, Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb and “brave Americans” fighting life-threatening conditions. ​The measure gives terminally ill patients the ability to seek drug treatments that​ haven’t been fully approved by the FDA. More than 1 million Americans die from a terminal illness each year, the White House said. During the ceremony, Trump also said that in two weeks, major drug companies will announce “voluntary drops in prices.” “I think we’re going to have some big — some of the big drug companies in two weeks. And they’re going to announce — because of what we did, they’re going to announce voluntary massive drops in prices,” Trump said.
A young computer hacker who prosecutors say unwittingly worked with a Russian spy agency was sentenced to five years in prison Tuesday for using data stolen in a massive Yahoo data breach to gain access to private emails. US Judge Vince Chhabria also fined Karim Baratov $250,000 during a sentencing hearing in San Francisco. Baratov was named in a federal indictment last year that charged two Russian spies with orchestrating the 2014 Yahoo breach involving 500 million users. Baratov was charged with using that stolen data passed to him by Russia’s Federal Security Service to hack dozens of email accounts of journalists, business leaders and others. Prosecutors said Baratov, 23, was an “international hacker for hire” who did little or no research of his customers. He pleaded guilty in November to nine felony hacking charges. He acknowledged that he began hacking as a teen seven years ago and charged customers $100 a hack to access web-based emails. Baratov, who was born in Kazakhstan but lived in Toronto, Canada, where he was arrested last year, charged customers to obtain another person’s webmail passwords by tricking them to enter their credentials into a fake password reset page. Prosecutors said in court papers that Baratov’s Russian-language web site named “webhacker” advertised services for “hacking of email accounts without prepayment.” Prosecutors said Russian security service paid Baratov to target dozens of email accounts using information obtained from the Yahoo hack. Prosecutors argued that Russia’s Federal Security Service targeted Russian journalists, US and Russian government officials and employees of financial services and other private businesses. Baratov and his attorneys also said his work with the Russia spy agency was unwitting. The US Justice Department charged two Russian spies with orchestrating the 2014 security breach at Yahoo to steal data from 500 million users. Dmitry Aleksandrovich Dokuchaev and Igor Anatolyevich remain at large and prosecutors believe they are living in Russia, which doesn’t have an extradition treaty with the United States. Baratov is believed to have collected more than $1.1 million in fees, which he used to buy a house and expensive cars. “Deterrence is particularly important in a case like this,” the judge said during the hearing. He rejected prosecutors call for a prison sentence of nearly 10 years, noting Baratov’s age and clean criminal record prior to his arrest. Baratov, who has been in custody since his arrest, told the judge that his time behind bars has been “a very humbling and eye-opening experience.” He apologized and promised “to be a better man” and obey the law upon his release. The judge said it is likely Baratov will be deported once he is released from prison.
0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals. 1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths.
Washington Capitals goalkeeper Braden Holtby made a daring game-saving stop with two minutes left in their Game 2 win over the Las Vegas Golden Knights in the Stanley Cup Final on Wednesday. Golden Knights forward Alex Tuch had a wide-open net over Holtby’s right shoulder. There was plenty of space for Tuch to put the equalizer in the back of the net. But seemingly out of nowhere, Holtby stretched backward and lunged with his stick to bat the puck away. “Thank God he's our goalie,” Alex Ovechkin said after the game. “He's over there when we need him, and it was probably the save of the year for sure.” Holtby’s save helped the Capitals to their first-ever Stanley Cup win, 3-2. “To me, it was the hockey gods," Washington coach Barry Trotz said. "They evened it up from the last game. Great save. You could see the emotion on our bench. Once he made that save, I knew we were going to win the game.” Holtby made 37 saves behind goals from Ovehckin, Brooks Orpik and Lars Eller. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. "Nothing in life is more liberating than to fight for a cause larger than yourself, something that encompasses you but is not defined by your existence alone." The story of John McCain is one of duty. Fighting battles in the skies over Vietnam...fighting horrifying pain in a Vietnamese prison...fighting for his beliefs in the world of politics and now fighting for his life in a battle with an aggressive form of brain cancer. FOX News Radio presents "John McCain - The Fighter" hosted by FOX News Channel's Lea Gabrielle:
1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals. 1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths.
“Will Machines Devour Man?” — New York Times “The Automation Jobless” — Time magazine “Automation Might End Most Unskilled Jobs in 10 Years” — U.S. News & World Report All of the above stories raise the growing concern that robotics, artificial intelligence (AI) and technology will destroy jobs and our ability to earn enough income to live a comfortable life. Some pundits have even suggested we need a universal basic income (UBI) as a safety net against the fear of “automation.” Time magazine warned, “How much has the rapid spread of technological change contributed to the current high of 5,400,000 out of work?” Guess what? All of these scary headlines came out in the 1960s! Since then, all the hand-wringing has been for naught. Technology, indeed, has destroyed jobs, but it has created far more jobs that are both new and better paying. Machines have engaged in “creative disruption” since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. The advent of the automobile destroyed thousands of jobs and acres of land devoted to the feeding, care and use of horses. But it created thousands of new jobs related to the automobile and transportation industries. Of course, today’s critics say, “this time it’s different.” In the early days of PayPal, Elon Musk warned that robots that autonomously decide it is time to kill mankind may be only five years away. “Automation could destroy as many as 73 million U.S. jobs by 2030,” warned the McKinsey Global Institute. But even the director of research for this report added, “The dire predictions that robots are going to take our jobs are overstated. There will be enough jobs for everyone in most sectors.” I just received in the mail a new book, “Work in the Age of Robots,” by Manhattan Institute economist Mark P. Mills. He offered numerous historical examples where the fears of technology were overblown and, in the end, almost everyone prospered — from automobiles to computers. Now, the challenge is with robots and artificial intelligence (AI). He concluded, “Every era created more new companies and jobs, most of them entirely unanticipated, than were lost from the less-productive centers of the economy. The central challenge in the transition of an era is not the prospect of the end of work and systematic high unemployment. Our challenge is the same as earlier eras: the moral and political imperative to deal with the inevitable disruptions that occur along the way to enhanced prosperity.” That’s why we continue to recommend technology stocks in my newsletter. I even have a new trading service on tech stocks called TNT Trader. We’re making money! Good news! Mark Mills has agreed to speak at this year’s FreedomFest on his book, “Work in the Age of Robots.” See you there. You Blew It! Universal Income Plan Won’t End Welfare There’s a growing movement to create a “universal basic income” for all citizens and residents of a country. Finland is trying a form of UBI, and Stockton, California (where else?), is giving away free money to reduce inequality. Even Charles Murray, who calls himself a libertarian, advocates it as a way to replace the welfare state. The idea is to give $1,000 a month to every citizen and resident to live on as a basic income, and then do away with the welfare state. The idea has become so popular that we are going to debate the subject at FreedomFest, led by Barbara Kolm, founding director of the Austrian Economics Center. But will it work? Most of the advocates of UBI are academics who have had little or no experience with people on welfare. As volunteers for our church, my wife I have had some experience dealing with welfare recipients in Yonkers, New York. Believe me, giving them money every month will not solve their deep-rooted psychological and mental problems. They still will need case workers to help them. The problem with UBI is that it violates the basic principles of economics. I call them the A&W principles that I teach my students in economics. “A” stands for “accountability,” meaning the user pays. “W” stands for “welfare” — you help those who need help but you don’t help those who don’t need help. UBI violates both A&W principles of economics. It violates the “A” principle by giving people money without their having to earn it. Second, it gives $1,000 a month to everyone, including rich people like Bill Gates and Warren Buffett. What a waste of money — and it is needlessly costly to taxpayers. The tax bill would have to double each year to pay for this program’s cost of $1.7 trillion a year. If you are going to have an automatic way to help the poor, why not adopt Milton Friedman’s idea of a negative income tax? That way, the public funds only go to the poor, and not to the wealthy. Update on Tesla Debate The bet is on in Vegas! Rob Arnott, the “godfather of smart beta,” and Keith Fitz-Gerald, chief investment strategist of Money Map, will square off in our big “Testy Debate on Tesla,” on Saturday, July 14, at the “Fast Money Summit” at www.freedomfest.com. Keith says he hopes to meet with Elon Musk right before the conference. Read all about the Fast Money Summit here. FreedomFest, July 11-14, is only six weeks away, and our room block at Paris and Bally’s will end in two weeks! We have over 1,000 people coming. Register now at www.freedomfest.com, or call toll-free 1-855-850-3733, ext. 202. Be sure to use the code EAGLE100 to get $100 off the registration fee. See you on 7/11 in Vegas! The post Will Robots Ruin Our Jobs and Income? appeared first on Stock Investor.
How much does Vivian Carlson love “Come From Away”? Let’s just say she’s seen it more than 25 times. The office manager/photographer, who goes by the name Viv Jean, buys $25 to $50 rush and standing-room tickets to revisit that musical, about stranded 9/11 travelers embraced by a small Canadian town. “I first saw it out of town,” the 24-year-old tells The Post, “and was completely blown away by its message of kindness.” On Friday, Viv Jean will get to see at least part of it again, for free — at Stars in the Alley, the Broadway League’s annual theatrical smorgasbord in Shubert Alley. This year’s edition, the 26th, promises nearly two dozen musicals, old and new, plus appearances from the stars of “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child,” “Angels in America” and other plays. “You get to see all those shows in one place and it’s free,” Viv Jean says. “I can be part of Broadway without shelling out for a ticket!” The show doesn’t start till 1 p.m., but JayneLynn Sullivan plans to be there at 8 a.m. to guarantee a good view of the stage. “I’m usually the first in line,” says the 19-year-old college student, a political science major who’s seen Stars in the Alley twice before. Like Carlson, she relies on those rush tickets. So far, she’s seen “A Bronx Tale” five times (“It’s one of the best adaptations of a film I’ve ever seen”) and “Hello, Dolly!” four (“Pure joy,” even without Bette Midler). She hopes to see “Mean Girls” again too (“So much fun!”). For theater’s superfans, some shows never get old. “I can’t even begin to tell you how magical it is to sit in an audience … anxiously awaiting for that overture to start and for the lights to dim,” says Crystal Lee Montalvo. The 22-year-old saw her first show, “Bring It On,” at 15, thanks to a program that distributed free tickets to high-schoolers who otherwise couldn’t afford them. Since then, she’s played the ticket lottery, coming out a winner 10 of the 25 times she saw 2014’s Idina Menzel musical, “If/Then.” She’s also seen “On Your Feet” (23 times) and “Waitress” (15), and has the Playbills and ticket stubs to prove it. “When I first started seeing shows, my mom didn’t understand it,” says Montalvo, a college student and health-food-store cashier who, like the heroine in “Waitress,” struggles to make ends meet. “I told her I’ll do extra chores, anything — I just want to be in my happy place. She said, ‘If you love it, and I love you, do it.’” ‘When you hit a show you really enjoy, you just can’t help it.’ Jerry and Gayle Stone of Randolph, NJ, know all about doing what they love. The couple just made their sixth trip to “Escape to Margaritaville” and their 10th to “The Play That Goes Wrong.” They saw 2015’s “Something Rotten!” so many times — 20! — that the stage manager knew them by name, and cast members recognized them on the street. So why do they keep coming back for more? “When you hit a show you really enjoy, you just can’t help it,” says Jerry, 75, a retired telecommunications engineer. He saw his first show, “Mamma Mia!,” after marrying Gayle, 82 — it’s the second marriage for both — and says they’ve gone to the theater nearly 600 times since they married 15 years ago, relying on discount tickets from the Theater Development Fund and its Tkts booth in Times Square to keep them in stitches. “We love to laugh,” says Gayle, a retired school principal who majored in theater. They’ve never been to Stars in the Alley, but plan to check it out. As far as they’re concerned, there’s nothing like live theater. “You go to a movie twice, you see exactly the same thing,” Jerry says. “You go to a show twice, somebody does something a little different. It’s never the same.”
Trump has gone apeshit batty with his latest "national security" tariff proposal. The Wall Street Journal reports Trump Administration Weighs New Tariffs on Imported Vehicles. The Trump administration is considering a plan that would impose new tariffs on imported vehicles on national-security grounds, according to industry officials briefed on broad outlines of the plan. The plan remains in its early stages, and is likely to face significant opposition from a number of interest groups, from foreign trading partners to domestic dealers of imported cars. Applying the tariffs under Section 232, meanwhile, would require a lengthy investigation and report from the U.S. Commerce Department. The administration is currently considering tariffs of up to 25%, according to those briefed on the plan. Global Trade War If Trump wants a global trade war, this is a sure-fire way to get one. Every country would respond with similar actions. And it would wipe out imports but it would also kill foreign investment in the US and US importers. It would raise prices for a while. Then a crash. Rosenberg on Trumponomics Trumponomics will cause the next recession – and soon. Here is why: https://t.co/kUNOSBdUE9 — David Rosenberg (@EconguyRosie) May 23, 2018 The feature image is one I remembered from a few years back as part of a Monkey selfie copyright dispute. A monkey took a photographer's camera and snapped a bunch of amazing pictures of itself. The courts ruled the images to be in public domain because monkeys cannot own copyrights. Also see 'Monkey Selfie' Lawsuit Ends With Settlement Between PETA, Photographer. The suit was settled, sort of. However, the court of appeals declined to dismiss the case and vacate the lower court judgment. This seems like nonsense to me. The owner of the camera should own the copyright. If that's not the case, then logically, any image in which an animal trips a shutter thereby taking it's own picture would be in public domain. Perhaps the argument was presented to the court wrongly. Instead of arguing the monkey owned the copyright, the claim should have been made that the camera owner owned the copyright.
One-third of New Yorkers want to ditch the Big Apple. A study by brokerage and real estate listings hub Redfin found that 34 percent of its New York City users searched for properties outside of the city, Bloomberg reported. It gets worse. Of that 34 percent, most looked at homes in our city’s archrival: Boston. The data, released earlier this month, also shows New Yorkers browsing homes in Miami and Atlanta. It’s a nationwide phenomenon. Given rising prices and limited inventory, wannabe home buyers currently living in expensive cities are looking at secondary markets. Of the 21 percent of San Franciscans searching outside the Bay Area, most are eyeing cheaper Sacramento. Seattle residents are ogling less costly counties in sunny Los Angeles, while Washington, DC, dwellers examine nearby Philadelphia. And while searches don’t reflect actual home purchases or relocations, Redfin says they’re a leading indicator of eventual moves. Redfin senior economist Taylor Marr reported that, in 2015, Bay Area residents were searching outside the city for homes, and by 2016, census data revealed that San Francisco had lost residents. The Big Apple better brace for a mass exodus.
Millions of people watch television series like American Idol, The Voice, and America's Got Talent, not just to be entertained and amazed by performances and bizarre acts, but to hear the personal stories and backgrounds of the contestants. The contestants on the television screen can become celebrities, heroes, and role models overnight, and many contestants connect with viewers on a personal level. In America, people from all over the country come to audition for these shows, hoping that their short audition will be the start of their lives changing forever. Many of the stories told by contestants involve the loss of loved ones or the overcoming of disabilities, and it is these stories that can bring tears to the viewer's eyes and leave them speechless. Across the pond, Great Britain has a talent show of its own. Britain's series Britain's Got Talent operates the same way as America's Got Talent, and this year, one contestant, though literally speechless, has stolen the show by bringing laughter to everyone who watches his comedy act. Meet Lee Ridley, a 37-year-old man who's also known as the "Lost Voice Guy." Lee Ridley lost his ability to speak due to the congenital disorder cerebral palsy, which affects body movement and muscle coordination. But despite the diagnosis and effects of the disorder, Lee has embraced comedy. Using a computer, Lee jokes about his condition and causes his audiences to roar with laughter. Lee's sense of humor and his routine have been a hit since his first audition, and he now finds himself in Britain's Got Talent's finale. One of Lee's best jokes from his first audition is, "To be honest, I'm not sure how good I am. I'll leave that for you to decide. But just so you know, if you don't laugh at the disabled guy, you're going to Hell." Lee is an inspiration for those with cerebral palsy and anyone who may be struggling with another disorder. His comedic act is having an impact that is larger than he could ever imagine. Below is Lee's first audition for Britain's Got Talent. FIRST LOOK: The 'Lost Voice Guy', may not be able to speak but he's not going to let that get in the way of entertaining the #BGT crowd. ???????? Enjoy a sneak peek from his comedy set and tune into Britain's Got Talent on Saturday from 8pm on @ITV for a lot more laughs. pic.twitter.com/lHscLe85w7 — Britain's Got Talent (@BGT) April 20, 2018 Lee's semi-finals act can be watched here as well. The show's finale is set to air on Sunday.
Sydney native Sasha Benz may work as the creative director of Montauk’s buzzy Surf Lodge, while her husband, Oliver, spins rare disco and funk records at that Hamptons party mecca — but when the couple first stumbled upon the hotel in 2012, they couldn’t even get past the bouncer. “We were in Montauk for the weekend, and we said, ‘What is this place?’ We got to the front of the line and couldn’t get in,” Sasha tells Alexa. “I was like, ‘But we look hot!’ ” jokes Oli. After working as models and stylists around the world, the pair had planned to leave New York and settle in Los Angeles. Their bags were packed. But after discovering Ditch Plains Beach, Oli fell in love with Montauk, which reminds him of an “eerie and artistic” version of Noosa, his chilled-out Australian hometown. “To me, it is heaven because you can surf every day,” he says. Soon, Surf Lodge founder Jayma Cardoso recruited the couple to stay on full time, putting them (and their giant French mastiff) up in a shoebox apartment in the back of the venue. That’s when their house hunting began in earnest. Last fall, Dylan Eckardt (the headline-grabbing Nest Seekers broker known as “The Prince of Montauk”), snagged them a traditional wood-shingle surf shack from the 1940s. The couple is slowly but surely turning it into their dream house, complete with “Mediterranean-meets-Bali-meets-Tulum-meets-Byron Bay” interiors. The pair are doing most of the work themselves — with their two small children, 2-year-old Rhythm and 2-month-old Baybi, in tow. “We had some bad experiences — we’d hire contractors who would start a job and just never show up again,” recounts Oli, 31, who handles stay-at-home-dad duties when he’s not DJing (or hammering). “It was actually easier to do the work myself. We saved money, and I learned. With the help of YouTube, you can basically get stuff done.” “It was a good process, even though I was a crazy pregnant woman when we started all this,” adds Sasha, 32, who founded the fashion blog All My Friends Are Models, as well as a chic digital business-card app called Cinq. “I would come up with the concepts, show them photos and they would just get it done. It was Pinterest to reality.” She says what began as a modest update to the 3,000-squarefoot, four-bedroom, four-bathroom house on West Lake Drive has morphed into a full-blown gut renovation, motivated by “a serious urge to nest.” They raised the roof, knocked out walls and stairwells to open up the floor plan, ripped out carpets, poured concrete countertops, replaced cupboards and cabinetry with reclaimed-wood shelves, and painted everything white — to name just a few of their ambitious DIY projects. “Oli was like, ‘Hey, we can just afford the house — let’s keep it as is.’ And I was like, ‘Let’s just make a few little changes!’” laughs Sasha. “The family that lived here before had six kids. It was built for a big family, which was great. But it had these ’90s orange-yellow walls and lots of tiny rooms and stairs. There were a lot of things that were unnecessary.” The Benzes also realized that the Manhattan-industrial aesthetic of their own furniture didn’t sync with their new three-level beach chalet. “We had a lot of stuff from Restoration Hardware, and we swapped it out for more of an Etsy vibe,” explains Sasha. After consulting the Internet, Oli discovered that he could give those dark-wood pieces a beach-chic vibe through aggressive sanding. “I found out that if I went really far back, the wood would look like it had rolled in the ocean for 50 years. So I did that to everything,” he says, including their coffee table, shelving and a custom-made bed frame. What he couldn’t sand, he whitewashed. He also covered their pine-wood buffet, which looked “a bit studio,” in a rough plaster and painted it with a white gloss. “It works,” says Oli, who used a similar treatment on the home’s fireplaces. When he was building from scratch, Oli painstakingly sourced timber from Antique Lumber Co. in Wainscott — including the reclaimed hemlock he used to create the staircase that’s become the centerpiece of their living room. Sasha, meanwhile, swapped out their dishes for rustic clay bowls and mugs to complement the kitchen’s reclaimed wood and concrete surfaces. She replaced old blinds with light linens, and updated all the hardware in the house to oil-rubbed bronze. The living room got a large white rug from Serena & Lily and marble coffee tables from MCM House in Australia. Shunning an overly formal designer look, Sasha opted for quirky custom pieces: a zinc dining table from Custom Metal Home in Illinois, one-off chairs from Indonesia, a frontdoor frame handmade in Jamesport using 10 separate mirrors sealed together. Other comfy touches include Maison Margiela candles, hanging plants and apropos coffee-table books, like “The House That Pinterest Built,” by actress Diane Keaton. By contrast, Oli’s studio/ man cave on the lower level (where he displays his collection of eight guitars, turntables and a custom neon light that reads “Holy S – – t I Love You”) is John Varvatos-inspired. “I want it to be so different from the rest of the house that it’s a shock when you walk in,” Oli says. “She’s fighting me on that by giving me white rugs. I am like, ‘That’s cool… for a big ol’ red-wine stain!’ ” Both agree that with two young kids and the summer season upon them, finishing their home — whatever “finishing” actually means — may take years. “It has to be a hybrid of natural and stylized,” Sasha says. “It has to smell and look nice but not be too staged. Oli especially is all about comfort and ‘home.’ ” Outside, he has cleared and leveled the lawn in pursuit of a rather unusual luxury: a miniature version of Manchester United’s Old Trafford soccer pitch, complete with soccer goals, flag posts, a halfway line and a penalty box. “We’ll have three-on-threes every Sunday,” he says. “I am not kidding.” Sasha, however, has different plans for the backyard. “I want a pool, gazebo, outdoor dining area and fireplace,” she says. “The soccer pitch fits inside of that,” Oli pipes in. “I can feel it.”
Yesterday, the IMD World Competitiveness Center released its Global Rankings, which saw the United States catapult back to the top of the list for the first time since 2015. In fact, the United States leapfrogged three places to displace Hong Kong at the pinnacle: The United States +3 Hong Kong -1 Singapore - unchanged Netherlands +1 Switzerland -3 The IMD World Competitiveness Center has been making this list for 30 years with a mission of nations to employ it as a toll and objective. The rankings involve 250 indicators that are broken into four categories: Economic Performance Government Efficiency Business Efficiency Infrastructure It should be noted that despite improvements in ranking this year, major European economies are in the middle of the pack: France (28), Portugal (33), Spain (36), and Italy (42). Ultimately, the list is said to highlight those nations that are creating long-term value for its citizens. I call that winning. Words For investors, there are two words of the day: “Wow” & “Symmetrical.” Let’s begin with the latter because the word debuted after the end of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) gathering on May 2nd. It was something of a head-scratcher, but now we know it means the Fed will play ball and be real about inflation. In yesterday’s minutes, the word was used nine times to drive home the point that inflation can eventually run above the Fed’s 2% target and won’t be an instant death knell to the economy or to the stock market. This feels like a common-sense approach; perhaps it’s not such a bad thing Jerome Powell isn’t a classically trained economist. This revelation sparked a market reversal for the Dow Jones Industrial Average that had already begun in other equity indices. The Dow made a 220-point reversal, closing near the high of the session -yesterday’s session was a major buy signal. Consumer Spending Powers Market In addition to the reversal in the major indices, market leadership points to the fact American consumers are flush and smarter about how they are going to spend this year. Eight of the top ten winners in the S&P 500 were retailers. Tiffany (TIF) crushed it along with Ralph Lauren (RL), and Lowe’s (LOW) was able to blame bad weather with strong and confident guidance. We also saw a rebound in big losers AutoZone (AZO) and Kohl’s (KSS). #1 TIF +23% #5 JWN +4% #2 RL +14% #6 NFLX +4% #3 LOW +10% #8 AZO +3% #4 AAP +7% #10 KSS +3% Stop Fretting About the Top After the close on Wednesday, the trend continues as Williams-Sonoma (WSM) blew away consensus, aspirational spending is real, and the stock is up more than 8%. Okay, you are still worried about the market because the best stocks are already changing hands at 52-week highs - or in some cases, all-time highs. Yesterday, I had a woman make this point as she fretted about never owning Boeing (BA). Investing is about looking into the future and measuring and managing risk against potential. Face it. Investors could have avoided buying Boeing because the shares were changing hands at an all-time high on so many occasions, including: Jan 28, 1980: $6.65 Jun 23, 1986: $13.77 Jul 10, 1990: $30.60 Jul 28, 1997: $58.50 Dec 4, 2000: $70.00 Sep 24, 2007: $105.00 Feb 23, 2015: $150.00 Yesterday, Boeing closed at $359 a share, and I think the stock is cheap. Today’s Session Stocks have been drifting all morning long as selling has intensified ahead of the open. It’s not a disaster but the kind of reaction we’ve come to expect when headlines suggest progress on North Korean denuclearization and China trade resolution is slowing. Of course we should be used to the threats and saber-rattling at this point but the stakes are so high that threats could be followed with action or inaction. Yesterday, President Trump put out a cryptic tweet that I initially thought was inferring a new NAFTA deal was imminent. Donald J. Trump @realdonaldtrump There will be big news coming soon for our great American Autoworkers. After many decades of losing your jobs to other countries, you have waited long enough! This turns out the tweet was referring to a new investigation of auto trade visa-vie US national security. On that note, I would say an auto tariff using national security is intriguing. I initially recalled Eisenhower's farewell speech and where he borrows from the Book of Isiah talking about beating plough-shares into swords. The government might have once claimed auto makers need to be protected so their manufacturing abilities could be used in the event of war. Even the highways act was approved as part of a war bill not as an economic bill. That said the economy is also part of national security so the administration can look into this but it’s unlikely to justify any proactive moves. America already has 25% tariffs on pickup trucks and it’s worked well to protect American jobs and the fact is I think GM and F would be on the brink of going out of business without that protection. Ironically those companies are getting out of cars where sales are down and margins are on the decline as well. I think this is just more about pressuring our trading partners into smart and fair deals.
1:33 Ever wonder what a dominatrix would do to Harvey Weinstein? Wonder no more! Harvey Weinstein needs to learn consent — the hard way. Venus, a New York-based dominatrix, detailed how she would use BDSM roleplay to treat an alleged sexual predator like Weinstein. “The first thing I would do with Harvey is make him identify that he is a piece of s---,” she told The Post. 3:32 Intimidated by Tinder? Here’s how to score big From Tinder to Bumble, the world of online dating can be confusing. This installment of “Pop Culture Crash Course” teaches us all about dating apps. Mark is a boomer looking for love. Alyssa is a funny millennial here to explain the modern world to him. 3:00 You're not 'multi-tasking' — you're half-assing Your brain isn’t capable of checking your phone and listening at the same time. That’s the message Steve McClatchy wants to spread to people who think they’re good at multi-tasking. The CEO of Alleer Training claims the human mind can only effectively do one high-quality “thinking” task at a time. Truly effective multi-taskers are actually good at juggling routine tasks, like making a sandwich, that they can do on “automatic pilot.” 3:18 Confused about dabbing? If this dad can 'dab,' so can you This installment of “Pop Culture Crash Course” teaches us about dabbing — the popular dance move originated in a Migos music video. Mark is a boomer hoping to better connect with his teenage daughter. Alyssa is a funny millennial ready and willing to explain the world to him. 2:08 A new vagina could save your marriage Women are going under the knife to improve the look and feel of their vaginas. Dr. Amir Marashi, aka the Vagina Whisperer, says his procedures, which cost up to $12,000, have saved couples who were on the verge of divorce. “The woman who says, 'Oh, I never get orgasms.’ Now she wants to have sex all the time,” the cosmetic gynecologist told The Post. 3:06 Unpacking the hype over Cardi B This installment of “Pop Culture Crash Course” teaches us all about Cardi B, the Bronx native who rocketed to the top of the charts with her hit song “Bodack Yellow.” Mark is a boomer hoping to better connect with his teenage daughter. Alyssa is a funny millennial ready and willing to explain the world to him. 2:14 This babe gets off putting the family jewels under lock and key Penis cages are all the rage in the BDSM community. Bondage professional Elise Graves spoke with The Post about the various devices used for restricting a man’s junk. From medieval-inspired belts to penis cages, male chastity is surprisingly popular in the sex toy world. “There is a c--k cage,” Graves explained. “And there’s something called a ‘keyholder.’ A person cannot get out of their cage unless I choose to allow that.” For those looking to try out this kink, affordable cages start at $15 online. 3:19 These dating-app red flags terrify women What goes through a woman’s mind when she’s swiping left on Tinder? NYPost.com producers Stephanie, Kayla and Brian sit down with the popular dating app to expose the biggest red flags men are hanging on their online profiles. The list of no-nos includes sketchy shirtlessness and mysterious women popping up in the profile pics. “Girls don’t like seeing girls in your profile,” Stephanie explained. “Then I got to look at the profile to see if you’re a couple looking for a good time.” 3:05 Confused about fashion? Here's the skinny on 'millennial pink' Fashion goes right over baby boomer Mark's head. Luckily, millennial Alyssa is teaching this single dad about one of today's biggest trends with the young'uns: millennial pink. From fashion week to happy hour, Alyssa schools Mark in the color that's totally taking over.
Each year I try to think of how to depict Memorial Day in Israel in a way that’s meaningful and juxtapose it in relation to how it’s observed in the US. Many thoughts race through my head. And each year I see Memorial Day through a different prism. This year’s prism is through adopting a chayalboded, a lone soldier, who moved to Israel from the US alone. His home is our home, and while we don’t get to see him every day because he’s in the army, his experiences trickle down and provide a perspective through which we look at military service differently, with added appreciation and respect, particularly vis a vis someone who had other choices and who chose to make his life here, defending his people, far from his family. I look at this Memorial Day through the prism of two soldiers who died in the past months. Neither of the ones who I am thinking of died in combat, but both were connected to people with whom we are close, so the grief trickles down immediately. There are no six degrees of separation. One of these young men was the son of neighbors. After his death they described how the army was not only not to blame, but actually fulfilled and completed his life. In their grief, they were grateful. As I get older and so do my friends, there are many more celebrations of our children joining the army, being recruited by elite units, getting promoted, and trying out for these elite units. Our children joining the army is a fact of life here, but the older you and your friends get, the more it becomes real, and the more you think about it with tremendous pride, but still thoughts of “what if” that we suppress. This year, I know that by this time next year, my oldest son will be in the army. He wants to be in an elite combat unit. He’s preparing himself this year, physically and spiritually. I’m proud of him, his growth, his sense of commitment and responsibility. But part of me still thinks of him as the 5 year old boy who moved to Israel and who commented after the accidental death of another soldier from our community who was the older brother of his friend, “Don’t worry Ima and Abba, I’m not going to jump out of airplanes when I am in the army.” This year, as every year, there was a minute of silence on the night ushering in Memorial Day, and two minutes the following morning. Both begin state memorial ceremonies that are televised natinoally, but thousands of other memorials take place. This year we memorialized 26,780 soldiers and terror victims who lost their lives. We try to comfort their families. This year, as every year, TV and radio programming is all, and only, related to somber reflection. As sad as it is, it’s uplifting to hear stories of brave soldiers, tragedies of terror victims, and how they each lived valuable, meaningful, and impactful lives. It allows us to pay our respect by having a personal sense of the loss so many experience individually. But the longer I’m in Israel the more I am connected to personal stories of loss. During the long minutes of silence we observe, I think about the growing number of casualties, and the growing number of those to whom I am connected, at least indirectly. During the televised ceremony at Israel’s national military cemetery, I was struck by three of the VIPs sitting next to one another. Prime Minister Netanyahu lost his brother in 1976 as a hero of Operation Entebbe, and is not just sensitive to, but a representative of, the bereaved families. He sat next to President Rivlin whose family has been in Israel for hundreds of years, an anchor of Jewish life in Israel. Next to the President was Speaker of the Knesset, Yuli Edelstein, who was a former Soviet Prisoner of Zion, and came to Israel after being released from a Soviet gulag in May 1987. In so many ways, they represent the mosaic of the people who live in Israel. And in so many ways more than any other day of the year, Memorial Day is the day that brings Israelis together because it’s hard to find one who’s not been touched by tragedy, and certainly not to find one who doesn’t live in fear of it. During that ceremony, the Prime Minister told a story of a man who lost his life in the War of Independence whose great grandson, from my community, was killed in our 2014 war in Gaza. It was sad enough then, that a young man my daughter’s age had just died in combat. Hearing that two generations of this family have been bereaved is shocking, and not something we wish to pass along. The ceremony took place in a new memorial to the nearly 24,000 soldiers who have died, with the name of every one inscribed on a stone that make up the walls. I’d never seen the building before. What was shocking is that it was built with what appears to be at least another 24,000 blank stones, ready to be inscribed for future casualties. It’s hard to plan for that and yet remain hopeful. The reality is that this is our reality. It probably will be that way for the rest of my life, at least. But we pray that from this Memorial Day there will be no new casualties. If not this year, one day soon. We pray that there will be no more losses, no more bereaved families, not in one generation and certainly not in two. In Israel, unlike the US, it is not the start of summer holidays, sales, or a time to wish anyone a “Happy Memorial Day.” May your Memorial Day be one of meaningful reflection and appreciation.
China’s Global Times editorialized on Wednesday about the dark side of lifting stern controls on family size in a bid to reverse demographic decline – namely, that women might become “breeding machines” as their families revert to Chinese tradition and pressure them to have a large number of children. This might seem like an odd concern, since it is the entire point of removing strict limits on family size, assuming Beijing does indeed announce such a policy change, as Bloomberg News anticipated last week. China is worried that decades of enforced infertility and abortion have left it without enough workers for the high-tech industrial future envisioned by Communist Party head Xi Jinping. Reversing demographic decline will necessarily involve a large number of women giving birth to three or more children. As the American saying goes, it is a feature of the plan, not a bug. The Global Times seems largely concerned with retroactively justifying the one-child policy, packaging it as an act of state-sponsored feminist enlightenment: For Chinese women with an awakening awareness for self-development, Bloomberg’s recent news that China is considering an end to all birth limits imposed on families might come as a bomb that may shatter their last harbor for independence in reproductive rights. Supposedly Chinese women are already chafing under the pressure to have more children after the one-child policy was amended to two children, so all bets are off once the limit is removed entirely: The news worries many women who believe that, when liberating their rights in deciding how many children they can have, dropping the policy probably will also take something away from them. “When there is the family planning policy, women who don’t want to have a second or third child can use the policy as an excuse. But if the policy becomes invalid, they would lose this line of defense and have to directly confront their traditional families and society at large,” Wei Tingting, founder of the Guangzhou Gender and Sexuality Education Center, told the Global Times. In Chinese traditional views, having more children in a family has always been regarded as the right thing to do. More importantly, given the current unfavorable situation for women in the local job market, the speculation has led many women to worry for their careers. “Under the one-child policy, employers asked female job hunters when they intended on having a child. Under the two-child policy, employers are concerned when they will have a second one. If there is no policy at all, what will they ask and how to answer them?” questioned Ding Kai, a lawyer, on Weibo. The rest of the world has found ways for women to balance careers and motherhood, although it would be fair to note that most societies are wrestling with difficult conflicts between economics, ideology, and biological reality. The United States, for example, is periodically convulsed with “wage gap” controversies that ignore the tendency of women to choose less risky jobs or take time away from the workforce for motherhood in order to argue that misogyny forces women to earn 70 cents on the male dollar. China has been criticized for actual, overt sexual discrimination in job advertising, ranging from puerile sexism about staffing offices with pretty girls to postings that specify only men or women who already have children need to apply, because the companies did not want to hire women who might have to leave the job for months to bear children. The Global Times speculates that lifting the two-child limit could put young childless women at a profound disadvantage in the job market compared to those who already have children, even if the discrimination becomes more subtle. “As a result, many Chinese women now see the positive side of the former one-child policy that they once resented,” the Global Times declared, revealing the true mission statement of the editorial. With that political marker down, Beijing will attempt to fend off years of criticism that the one-child policy was “barbaric” and “brutal” by using the language of contemporary Western feminism and environmentalism to look on the bright side of forced abortions. Even Vice President Joe Biden tried to warn a Chinese audience during the 2012 presidential campaign that their one-child policy was “not sustainable,” after some obsequious toadying about how he “fully understood” the thinking behind the policy and was not interested in “second-guessing” the Politburo. If China’s leadership really wants to reverse the country’s demographic decline, it will quietly hope women listen to their allegedly grandchild-hungry mothers instead of Party news magazine editorials.
Tuesday on CNN’s “Newsroom,” former Obama administration green jobs czar and network contributor Van Jones blamed the ”moral collapse inside of our political system” for Roseanne Barr’s derogatory tweet about former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett. Jones said, “Some things apparently are more important than money, even to a big corporation like ABC-Disney, and that is very heartening because we’ve been in a moral freefall for at least three years. To my point of view, one of the great things is — it is, in fact, important that red-state America be better represented in the media. But they can have a better representative than a rank bigot who is a conspiracy theorist and who is trashing good people in this country. Valerie Jarrett served with distinction and through some of the toughest moments of American history, whether you’re talking about the great recession, whether you are talking about Osama bin Laden, there were so many times Valerie Jarrett was there to help us to steer and steady the ship.” He continued, “I’m ashamed to say this, I thought she was probably gonna get away with it. I was as shocked as anybody else when there was actually consequences. Consequences for racism in America? I think you’re starting to see now whether it’s Starbucks and what they did today trying to be on the better side of this conversation or ABC-Disney, it could be that this moral collapse inside of our political system, and especially inside the White House, is being counterbalanced now by people in mainstream media, mainstream corporations who say we don’t want to live in a country where decent people can be attacked for no reason with despicable terms. It not a joke. It’s not funny. It’s the dehumanization of people of color, calling us animals, referring to us as apes and animals, that has a history leading to all kinds of violence, justifying exclusion from businesses and universities. This is part of a long and nasty history and apparently, ABC-Disney doesn’t want it to be a part of our future. And I’m glad that in some places in America some things are more important than money and I’m glad.” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. As the television season wraps up, it seems that Satan is having a bad year on Fox. The still-Rupert Murdoch-owned network canceled not only its devil drama "Lucifer" but also "The Exorcist," which "blessed" us with anti-religious plots about sexually active gay and straight priests and mercy-killing nuns. It even waved goodbye to the sitcom "The Mick," which routinely mocked religion as something only naive grade schoolers believe until they grow up to be "smart and progressive." Is Fox going soft? Rest easy, atheists. For people who want to ridicule God and those crazy believers, there is still Seth MacFarlane and "Family Guy," which has been renewed for season 17. May 20 was Pentecost, the day Christians celebrate the Holy Spirit descending on the Apostles, and Fox was kicking the usual "comedic" dirt at the faithful. In the episode, Peter Griffin, the title character, lapses into a coma and believes he's stuck in an elevator with God. God says He's incapable of getting out of the elevator. Later it turns out He is trying to decide whether Peter is going to heaven or hell. (MacFarlane's God conveniently proclaims to Peter that atheists don't go to hell but somehow the netherworld's deepest torments are saved for people who say they are spiritual but not religious.) When Peter asks God why He isn't in Heaven, God uses the PR-speak of a Hollywood sexual abuser: "There was an issue. Uh, a few angels came forward. I don't remember things exactly as they do, but I respect their experience." When God tells Peter he's an "inattentive husband and a terrible parent," Peter retorts, "Oh, says father of the year!" Responding to the reference of a somehow cruel God sacrificing Jesus for the forgiveness of sinners, God says: "Oh, please. He played that for all it was worth. 'Why has Thou forsaken me?' ... I did Him a favor." At the end of the episode, God tells Peter that he succeeded because he uttered, "You were right about everything." God then explains: "That's what religion is. It's not about being good or bad. It's just blind subservience to an imaginary being." Count on Hollywood for a snarky, self-satisfied, secular sermon served in a Sunday-night cartoon. An hour earlier, a milder mockery of religion showed up on "The Simpsons," which has been renewed for season 30. In this story, young Bart Simpson is in a coma after being struck by lightning and is seeing ghosts. In his dream, his annoying and nerdy friend Milhouse finds him in a dark room surrounded by crosses and lit devotional candles. He asks: "What's going on, Bart? Are you into God now? I always was." He then holds up a crucifix and says of Jesus: "Look at those abs. The secret is less loaves, more fishes!" Bart replies, "I don't believe in some dopey religion. This is to keep out ghosts." At the end of the episode, after recovering from his coma and somehow possessing new psychic powers, Bart foretells to Lisa how everyone they know will die. Sitting in a Buddhist cross-legged pose, Lisa utters her last words: "Oh, my God! Now I realize, this has all been a waste of time." That might be an apt summary of a life spent watching too many hours of Fox cartoons.
OAKLAND, Calif. — Even though he knew it was the best move to make, Tampa Bay right-hander Nathan Eovaldi was not happy when Kevin Cash pulled him after six innings. He even had to be prodded to shake his manager’s hand. Coming off a second Tommy John surgery, Eovaldi understood why. He just didn’t like it at the time. Eovaldi pitched six innings of no-hit ball in his return to the majors, leading the Rays to a 6-0 victory over the Oakland Athletics on Wednesday night. “I didn’t want to shake his hand,” Eovaldi said. “I haven’t gone seven innings in a really long time. So we played it safe and it was good. I would have liked to stay out there until I gave up a hit, but I understand the situation as well.” Eovaldi (1-0) routinely clocked in the high 90s with his fastball and faced one batter over the minimum through six innings in his Tampa Bay debut. He threw 70 pitches and had four strikeouts. The only runner to reach base against him was Matt Chapman, who drew a one-out walk in the first. Cash said he debated sending Eovaldi out for the seventh. “It was tough, there was no doubt, but we have to do what’s right by him,” Cash said. “He wanted to stay, but realistically, he’s not getting to the ninth inning. I’ll just blame [pitching coach Kyle Snyder]. I wanted to keep pitching him, but Kyle told me to pull him.” Wilmer Font, acquired by the Rays from the A’s last Friday, gave up Jed Lowrie’s one-out single in the seventh for Oakland’s only hit of the game. Vidal Nuno got the last three outs to finish the one-hitter. Rob Refsnyder hit a three-run home run off A’s starter Sean Manaea (5-6), and Johnny Field also homered for the Rays. The game drew an announced crowd of 6,295, the smallest at the Oakland Coliseum since April 3, 2003. Eovaldi last pitched in the majors on Aug. 10, 2016, for the Yankees. Nine days later, he underwent a second elbow surgery. Eovaldi also had Tommy John surgery in 2007 when he was a junior in high school. The 28-year-old missed the first month of this season after undergoing surgery March 30 to remove loose bodies in his elbow. Eovaldi made four rehab starts in the minors before being activated off the disabled list before Wednesday’s game. “It felt great being out there,” Eovaldi said. “I was so focused on just getting that first out. After I got it, the emotions kind of got to me. I was a little nervous out there. Then I was able to regroup and slow back down.” Eovaldi, the 12th pitcher in major league history to start in the majors after having two Tommy John surgeries, induced seven groundouts and retired the final 17 batters he faced following the walk to Chapman. “I think we pushed him about as much as we wanted to,” Cash said. Font then came in and retired Chapman on a liner to shortstop in the seventh before Lowrie pushed a single up the middle. Nuno replaced Font in the ninth and gave up a leadoff walk to Oakland shortstop Chad Pinder, then retired the next three batters. That was all the offense the A’s could muster while being shut out by the Rays for the second time in three games. “Honestly, those guys over there, they’re pitching great,” Pinder said. “Those guys aren’t a walk in the park, and they’re locating and they’re making all their pitches work. Hitting’s hard enough as it is.” Oakland went into the game batting .216 in May, the second-lowest average in the majors.
The fast-food chain Chick-fil-A honored fallen service members by setting aside an empty table to remember those who lost their lives defending our country. Chick-fil-A locations across the United States set up a special table inside their restaurants on Memorial Day to recognize those who sacrificed their lives for the country. WTVM posted a video of the table featured at the chain’s Columbus, Georgia, location on Monday. The table, which is referred to as a “Missing Man Table” or “Remembrance Table,” is a table set with two chairs and covered with a white cloth. The table also features one red rose, a Bible, a candle, and an American flag with a red ribbon. The table also features a note describing what each of the items symbolizes. “It’s a tradition in military services when you have a formal celebration to have a table for those who didn’t make it back,” retired Navy Commander Marinus Storm, who runs a Chick-fil-A in Jacksonville, Florida, said. Storm said his restaurant had displayed the Missing Man Table every Memorial Day since he opened the store in 2004. Other restaurants across the country have featured similar displays to honor fallen service members. Slim Chickens, a restaurant in Longview, Texas, also set up a table to recognize those who died serving the country.
see also ABC cancels 'Roseanne' after racist tweets “Roseanne’s Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our... “Roseanne” reruns are cancelled, too. Viacom is pulling the original version of the sitcom from its cable networks after star and creator Roseanne Barr went on a racist Twitter rant Tuesday, according to Deadline.com. As of Wednesday, the show will be scrubbed from schedules on Paramount Network, TV Land and CMT. ABC canceled its revival of the show when Barr compared former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett to ​an ape and accused Jewish billionaire George Soros of being a “Nazi” who “turned in his fellow Jews.”
Planned Parenthood once again finds itself under fire after a report was released showing that the ‘women’s health’ clinic performed abortions on young girls who had been sexually abused by family members, and then failed to report these crimes. Instead of taking a harsh stance against sexual abuse, Planned Parenthood sent these girls back home to the abusive arms of the family members who perpetrated sex crimes without law enforcement having any knowledge. This blatant lack of action comes from the organization that not only claims to champion women and sexual assault victims, but also one of the strongest voices in the TimesUPand #MeToo movements. Planned Parenthood repeatedly tells everyone to #TrustWomen who report sexual assault and abuse, but turned a blind eye to girls as young as 12 and 13 years old who confided in Planned Parenthood workers about abuse instances. These new reports are not the singular offenses of Planned Parenthood’s complicity in sexual abuse, the organization has been caught covering up child sexual abuse cases previously. Avideo from Live Action shows testimony from former Planned Parenthood employees about abuse cover-up. Catharine Adair, a former Planned Parenthood employee, confirmed her experience with abuse cover up, citing cases of young girls who entered the Planned Parenthood location alongside their abusers. Rather than reporting the multitude of child sexual abuse cases, Planned Parenthood workers snubbed the victims, claiming that they were ‘better off with the abortion,’ as opposed to following the law and reporting the abuse cases. Sue Thayer, formerly a manager at Planned Parenthood, even claimed that abuse cover-up was encouraged by Planned Parenthood officials. The Left can never seem to condemn the repeated, disgusting behavior from their favorite campaign fundraiser, Planned Parenthood. Although the Democratic Party is the self-proclaimed party of women, and supposed advocates for sexual assault and abuse victims, Democrats cannot even seem to call out Planned Parenthood for its complicity in abuse. From selling fetal tissue to sex-selective abortions, and now, covering up sexual abuse, the Left’s deafening silence on Planned Parenthood’s multitude of scandals involving a complete disregard for human life is ear-splitting.
Dear Dave, A debt collection agency started calling my office a few weeks ago. I gave them an initial payment, and made an agreement to pay off the debt in monthly installments. This morning, they started calling me at my office again wanting payment. Can I legally demand they not call me at my place of employment? James Dear James, Absolutely! You have a legal and moral obligation to pay your debts, and I’m glad this is something you recognize. But collectors have rules they must follow. They’re governed by law just like everyone else. Be certain to keep your end of the agreement. Make your payments on time, or early, whenever possible. Then, if they call you at work again, remind them of your initial payment and the terms of the agreement already in place. Be polite, but firm, and demand that they never call you at your office again. In addition, send them a certified letter, return receipt requested, so you’ll have proof you sent the letter and they received it. In the letter, let them know that — according to guidelines set forth in the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act — you are demanding they not call you at your office again. If they call you there after receiving this formal demand to stop, they’ll be in violation of federal law. If that happens, let them know you’ll talk to a lawyer and sue them. —Dave
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott says 142 charged suspects on requested immigration detainers were released from the Travis County jail during a one-week period last month. The releases constituted nearly 70 percent of the 206 inmates freed nationally due to denial of detainer requests by federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials. “This is deeply disturbing and highlights the urgent need for a statewide sanctuary city ban in Texas,” Abbott said. “The Travis County sheriff’s decision to deny ICE detainer requests and release back into our communities criminals charged with heinous crimes – including sexual offenses against children, domestic violence and kidnapping – is dangerous and should be criminal in itself,” the Republican governor said. Major Wes Priddy, spokesman for the Travis County Sheriff’s Office, said he could not confirm the 142 figure because no names were included in the ICE report cited by Abbott. “I feel confident that most of those are still in custody,” Priddy told Watchdog.org. He called the ICE report “anecdotal.” Priddy said the sheriff’s office formally notifies ICE when a detainer, or hold, is not honored. Under an executive order by President Donald Trump, ICE now issues weekly accounting of detainers refused by local authorities. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, said he supports the administration’s efforts “to enforce laws that stop criminal immigrants from being released into the community.” “Travis County officials endanger innocent Texans when they release immigrants who have been convicted of crimes that include domestic violence, aggravated assault and DUIs,” Smith said. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, 70 percent of violent offenders are arrested for a new crime within five years of release from jail or prison. The Texas Senate has passed Senate Bill 4, which would penalize sanctuary cities. Withholding state grants and funding could cost Travis County tens of millions of dollars, according to a Watchdog report. Kenric Ward writes for the Texas Bureau of Watchdog.org. Contact him at kward@watchdog.org and follow him on Twitter @Kenricward.
Netflix recently tweeted out an announcement that it would be entering into a major deal with Barack and Michelle Obama. President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama have entered into a multi-year agreement to produce films and series for Netflix, potentially including scripted series, unscripted series, docu-series, documentaries, and features. Marketwatch says that it is unclear how they will be paid. The CEO of Netflix is known to have strong left-of-center sympathies. He firmly endorsed Hillary Clinton, and just as firmly unendorsed Donald Trump: “Donald Trump would destroy much of what is great about America. Hillary Clinton is the strong leader we need, and it’s important that Trump lose by a landslide to reject what he stands for.” Going beyond just expressing his own political views, he 'offered to resign' from the board of Facebook when fellow board member Peter Thiel endorsed Donald Trump, which Hastings called “catastrophically bad judgement.” Since no one was asking Hastings to resign, the offer seemed a bit more like a threat -- or at the very least, a hardball tactic in an attempt to get Thiel off the board. After all, it’s presumably okay to have members of the board of a public company differ over politics. In fact, it’s desirable. In the normal course of business, the fact that Thiel had endorsed someone who went on to win the election would be seen as a win for the company since it could mean that there would be an open door for him to educate the new president about issues of interest to a large company like Facebook, which is likely to face greater regulatory scrutiny in the future. Bottom line: Hastings’ resignation 'offer', when no other member who shares a board with Thiel is reported to have made a similar offer, establishes Hastings as even more politically motivated than the typical Silicon Valley CEO. Which makes this offer to the Obamas worthy of greater scrutiny. Neither of the Obamas have a strong background in movie or television production. Neither of them have experience in that arena to speak of. Yes, they are celebrities, but celebrity does not equal talent in terms of the type of judgment needed to produce video entertainment products. Shareholders might have reason to suspect that Hastings is pursuing his own ideological and social status goals at the expense of shareholders. One piece of information to support this idea is that Netflix has refused to release any financial information about the deal. We don't know what the Obamas will be paid. We don't know how much resources will be under their control as producers. If the numbers were good news for shareholders, then Netflix shouldn’t be anxious to share them. Probably the thing that shareholders should focus on the most, however, is not that particular deal, but the overall corporate culture of Netflix in regards to putting the interests of the owners ahead of those of the managers. The record in that regard is extraordinarily weak. Netflix is what is frequently described as a 'founder's firm -- that is, a firm in which the founder is also the current CEO and Chairman. Founder's firms often build a moat of protection around the founder to insulate him or her from shareholders. Netflix is particularly egregious in this regard. It fails on numerous criteria when it comes to good corporate governance. Ideally the shareholders hold the board accountable and the board holds the CEO accountable. But Netflix's CEO is also the Chairman of the board. The members of the board are weak in comparison with the CEO as evidenced by an entrenched board, and one which has tolerated related party transactions (such as Hastings' deal to lease his private jet to the company). The board rules are perfectly scripted to keep the board as the stars and the shareholders as bit players in the corporate drama. The board does not have a requirement for board directors to get a majority vote of shareholders to remain on the board after an election. Shareholders are in a very weak position, as well, when it comes to amending by-laws, selling to an outside buyer who may wish to make management changes, and various tools by which board members who are dissenters can assert authority. For this reason, MSCI ESG Manager classifies Netflix as 'Worst in class' in comparison with other American publicly traded companies. The indexes that I work on, Vident Core International Equity Index (VIEQX) and Flag-Forensic Accounting Long-Short Index (FLAGLSX), both list the company as a 'worst offender' when it comes to governance issues. In addition, the company is listed by MSCI ESG Manager as 'very aggressive' when it comes to accounting practices. This means that it is a higher risk for earnings distortions in financial reporting than companies which are not aggressive. It's not a matter of proof that they are engaging in reporting shenanigans, more that there is a lot of room for those practices. The system which I helped develop for FLAGLSX (which is a forensic accounting based index, forensic accounting being the science of looking for danger signs in financial reporting) shows Netflix well below the average US stock universe in every category we look at. This might all be okay if the stock were priced for uncertainty, but it's not. It's priced for almost certain future profit growth. WSJ.com pegs the stock at an astronomically high PE value of 223! The indexes that I work on have a broader set of valuation metrics, but Netflix fails the valuation test in every single one of them. The bottom line is that Netflix's bottom line should be viewed with skepticism. And so should this new transaction with the Obamas. The company has a history of putting CEO ahead of shareholders, and the CEO has a history of letting his political leanings lead his decisions. After all, if being on the board of Facebook was not good for business, he should not have been there in the first place. And if it was good for business, then he should not have offered to resign simply because he didn't like the politics of a fellow member. The biggest problem with Founder's Firms is that the founder tends to have trouble adjusting to a world in which it's not his or her company any longer. Every business decision is made with someone else's money at stake. At this point it seems like the burden of proof is on Mr. Hastings, and any other CEO of a company with similarly weak scores in governance and accounting reporting, to show that they understand they are the hired help. And before anyone asks, I wrote the same critique of the CEO of Under Armour after he endorsed Donald Trump. It's about what the CEO's corporate politics are, not about their political politics. For the reason I outline above, the indexes which I helped design, and the funds which use them, hold a zero position in Netflix and a negative position in the long only and long short indices. I personally have a zero position in Netflix.
It was the commander and cheeks! Kim Kardashian strutted into the Oval Office on Wednesday for a sit-down with President Donald Trump to discuss criminal justice issues — including an imprisoned drug offender she discovered on Twitter. The reality queen donned high heels and an all-black ensemble for the highly anticipated White House meeting. Kardashian was spotted entering the West Wing around 4:45 p.m. and leaving about an hour later. She spoke with both Trump and Jared Kushner, whom she met through Ivanka Trump, according to sources. The mother-of-three requested the White House meeting after hearing about the plight of Alice Marie Johnson on social media late last year. “This is so unfair,” Kardashian tweeted in October 2017, along with a link to an interview Johnson, 63, did on Mic.com. Sources told The Post that Kardashian argued that Johnson — a Memphis great-grandmother convicted of a drug conspiracy — had paid her debt to society after 21 years behind bars and deserves clemency. The meeting went “well,” sources said, and now the decision is in Trump’s hands. After the meeting, Kardashian headed to Ivanka and Jared’s DC home for a private dinner. It was to be a continuation of the White House meeting, since Kushner is a passionate advocate for criminal justice reform after living through his father’s imprisonment. “Happy Birthday Alice Marie Johnson. Today is for you,” Kardashian tweeted before arriving in Washington. She was accompanied by her personal attorney, Shawn Holley, who is helping Johnson. The first-time non-violent drug offender was sentenced to life in prison in 1997 after she admitted to acting as an intermediary for drug pushers. While President Barack Obama granted 1,927 clemency requests before leaving office, Johnson was not one of them. “This main thing is we want Ms. Alice free and we want to raise awareness to the broader issue that people are sentenced to die in prison,” said Brittany Barnett, a member of her legal team. “Ms. Alice is serving the same amount of time as the Unibomber. People need to feel that.” Kardashian was able to build a relationship with Johnson by talking to her on the phone in her Alabama federal prison. “Kim is looking at this from a human rights and human dignity perspective,” Barnett said of their conversation. “It went like two friends. One friend is trying to save the life of the other.” Kardashian helped fund and assemble a legal team for Johnson. After the meeting, Trump tweeted a photo of the two together at the Resolute Desk, with him seated and her standing to his right. “Great meeting with @KimKardashian today, talked about prison reform and sentencing,” he wrote. It was later retweeted by the @POTUS account. The White House meeting was a culmination of weeks of planning that started with Kardashian reaching out to Ivanka, who then put her in touch with Kushner — a champion of prison reform. It came just weeks after Kardashian’s husband, Kanye West, came under fire for publicly voicing his support for Trump. While the rapper is a fan of the president, it’s unclear if his wife feels the same way. Trump has ridiculed Kardashian in the past — and even body-shamed her while speaking on the “Howard Stern Show.” “Does she have a good body? No. Does she have a fat ass? Absolutely,” Trump said during a 2013 interview. Surprisingly, Kim is not the first Kardashian to grace the halls of the White House. Her sister, Khloe, accompanied ex-husband Lamar Odom during the Lakers’ championship visit in 2010 and got to meet Obama. Jessica Jackson Sloan, who directs the Dream Corps’ #cut50 initiative, was at the White House earlier this month working with Kushner and Trump on criminal justice reform. The president is sincerely interested in getting something done on prison reform, she said. “I hope the president will feel moved by Kim Kardashian, who in some ways is the perfect messenger on this because she doesn’t come to this as someone who has been a longtime advocate or even somebody who has been directly impacted,” Sloan said. “She comes from the perspective of somebody who was not really aware of this issue until she started hearing about Ms. Alice’s case and cases like that and had her own sort of transformation.”
A Texas car salesman claims in a lawsuit that he’s had to endure intentional flatulence and pinched nipples for over a year from his former boss. Brett Bland filed the lawsuit against Jeremy Pratt and the dealership’s parent company, CT Motors Inc., which operates AutoNation Acura Gulf Freeway in League City, Click 2 Houston reported Wednesday. Bland accuses Pratt of inappropriate behavior in the workplace and making vulgar and rude comments toward him as well as creating a “sexually hostile environment” at work and online, the station reported. “[Pratt] reinforced dominance over his subordinates by regularly entering their enclosed offices, intentionally passing gas, and then laughing as they were forced to breathe soiled air,” Bland claims. Pratt was fired from the dealership after he passed a flyer out at work suggesting that Bland was a sexual offender, Click 2 Houston reported, lawsuit documents. Bland also accuses the dealership of retaliating against him because of Pratt’s firing. Bland claimed that he was told he’d be fired if he failed to sell a certain amount of cars and that Pratt was allowed to hang around the facility even after he was fired. It’s unclear if Bland continues to work at the dealership. “This is a pending legal matter on which we have no comment, other than to say that we previously investigated the matter several months ago and took appropriate action,” AutoNation said in a statement to Click 2 Houston. Bland is seeking damages, but it’s unclear how much money he is seeking.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Here we are, wedged between Mother's Day and Father's Day, and I am thinking about that question that young children often ask around this time of year: "How come there's no 'children's day'?" Parents invariably respond with some version of, "Because every day is 'children's day.'" That used to be true. I question whether it still is. A friend's daughter was at Noblesville West Middle School in Indiana during the shooting last week, She was physically unhurt, but understandably hysterical, and quite likely traumatized. There were -- thank goodness -- no fatalities this time. But every one of these school shootings is horrifying, and their frequency is cause for alarm. The Noblesville shooting took place one week after 10 people were killed at Santa Fe High School in Texas; three months after 17 people were killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. In fact, here have been nearly a dozen shootings at high schools or middle schools this year. Did you catch that? Middle schools. The Noblesville shooter was in 7th grade. This is not an editorial about gun rights or gun control. Weapons have been around since colonial days, but kids were not walking into the little red schoolhouse on the prairie and blowing their teachers and classmates away. When teenagers are shooting people (or stabbing them, or torturing them and posting videos of it on Facebook, or setting pipe bombs), it isn't a weapons problem; it is a culture problem. And our culture is sick, indeed. It is not merely that books, movies, music and video games are soaked in violence, although that is certainly true. Nor is it just that the perpetrators of violence take on cult hero status through 24/7/365 media coverage of their crimes, although that is true as well. (A New York Times article this week described the growing phenomenon of "Columbiners" -- angry, disaffected young males who seek the kind of infamy that the two Columbine High School murderers have.) It is that we refuse to let children be children. Childhood should be about innocence. But as a culture today, we sneer at innocence. Instead of protecting our children, we expose them to every imaginable human pathology and justify it by claiming that it's "art" or that "this happens in the real world, and kids need to know about it." Consider how often preteens or young teens are depicted in highly sexualized circumstances, or perpetrating violence with few consequences, or shown as being utterly without capable adult guidance or supervision. Season one of the show "13 Reasons Why" shocked the nation with its graphic depiction of a teen suicide. In the season two finale, they decided to up the ante, showing a male-on-male anal rape with a broken mop handle. The show's creator Brian Yorkey offered this justification: "When we talk about something being 'disgusting' or hard to watch, often that means we are attaching shame to the experience. We would rather not be confronted with it. We would rather it stay out of our consciousness. This is why these kinds of assaults are underreported. This is why victims have a hard time seeking help. We believe that talking about it is so much better than silence." How many high school students are violently sodomized? Those victims require every bit of assistance that we can provide, but they are not helped by infecting the "consciousness" of all children with this poison. Last summer, Teen Vogue -- a magazine whose readership includes preteens -- featured a graphic article promoting the joys of anal sex. The editor condescendingly dismissed a national backlash as "rooted in homophobia ... (and an) arcane delusion about what it means to be a young person today." See what I mean? Sneering at innocence. You ignoramus. Everyone's doing it. This is the sewer into which we toss our children and tell them to sink or swim. This nonstop media onslaught does not engender "meaningful conversations" -- it simultaneously desensitizes young people and terrorizes them with a distorted sense of the world in which they find themselves. One young commenter on Refinery29's review of the "13 Reasons Why" finale wrote, "Im going into Highschool ( Freshman ) once summer ends and man did that (rape scene) really makes me scared for my future." We laden the brains and hearts and souls of our children with adult burdens they cannot possibly carry, and we pretend we're not warping their growth, like a scarring a sapling. (And all of this is without mentioning the emotional instability caused by the collapse of families, the epidemic of divorce and the absence of fathers.) There was a time when adults understood that children needed our protection. Now, we virtue-signal our modernity by exposing our children to the worst that human beings are capable of. Every day is "children's day"? Not anymore.
On Thursday’s broadcast of CNN’s “Wolf,” Representative Steve Cohen (D-TN) stated he believes the pardon of author Dinesh D’Souza is sending a message to President Trump’s supporters about the Russia investigation and that if the pardon power is used to obstruct justice, “which is what I see happening, the resolution, according to the Federalist Papers, is impeachment, and it needs to be talked about.” Anchor Wolf Blitzer asked, “Congressman, so what’s your reaction to the president’s decision to grant this full pardon to Dinesh D’Souza. Do you believe it’s aimed at sending a message to his supporters about the Russia investigation?” Cohen answered, “I think there’s no question it is, and same thing for the talk about Blagojevich and Martha Stewart. I was talking — just kind of random talk with one of my colleagues a week and a half ago, and something came up about a pardon, and he said to me — he said, ‘We’re going to show you what pardons are all about real soon.’ And this is a fellow who talks to the president on a regular basis. And I don’t know if he necessarily knew what he was talking about, but I suspect he did, and what he was saying was basically, we’re going to have like a Saturday Night Massacre, where there’s going to be several pardons in one day. And I think Manafort knows it. I think Michael Cohen knows it. I think others know it. I think Robert Mueller probably knows it. And it has the potential to be an obstruction of justice case.” He continued, “You can — the president has total authority to issue pardons pursuant to the Constitution. It’s an unlimited power. But if you abuse the power, and there can be an abuse of the power, and the Federalist Papers talked about it, the remedy for that is impeachment. Some people say you shouldn’t talk about impeachment, but you have to talk about impeachment when the Constitution has been impugned. And if the pardon power is what is being used to obstruct the — justice in this case, which is what I see happening, the resolution, according to the Federalist Papers, is impeachment, and it needs to be talked about.” Cohen added, “[I]mpeachment can be on — it’s high crimes and misdemeanors, not defined, but it can be what the Congress could construe to be abusing that power to where it is malevolent, to where it causes the public to have less confidence in their judicial officials, which is what we saw in the Arpaio case, where Arpaio thumbed his nose to the judiciary and Trump said, ‘Fine.’ This D’Souza guy thumbs his nose to the election laws and he says, ‘Fine.’ Martha Stewart thumbs her nose to the — to insider trading and he says, ‘Fine.’ And Blagojevich was trying to sell a Senate seat. So, he’s basically saying all these people who have acted to really put seeds of doubt in the public’s mind about institutions and about fairness are going to be freed because he thinks it’s OK.” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett
Roseanne Barr ​resorted to the “I’m not a racist” line of defense amid a day of lashing out at all comers on Twitter Wednesday — ​also ​declaring her ​comparison of a black former Obama senior aide to an ape “insensitive, not racist​.​” “I’m not a racist, I never was & I never will be,” Barr tweeted​ a day after her rants got the successful “Roseanne” reboot canceled and all her old episodes pulled from the air​. “One stupid joke in a lifetime of fighting 4 civil rights 4 all minorities, against networks, studios, at the expense of my nervous system/family/wealth will NEVER b taken from me,” she said. The embattled TV star has been getting blasted on social media for being a “racist” and “bigot” following her “planet of the apes” tweet about ​ex-Obama staffer Valerie ​Jarrett. Barr, who is now unemployed, has even been getting called out by her supporters. “Yes. Her joke was racist and in poor taste. She apologized and deleted the tweet BEFORE the s–t hit the fan,” wrote one Twitter user. “Stop saying that,” Barr replied. “It was insensitive not racist.” The onetime ’90s icon was also retweeting messages of support Wednesday, which seemed to fire her up. “You guys make me feel like fighting back,” Barr tweeted. “I will examine all of my options carefully and get back to U.” Related Video 3:33 ABC cancels 'Roseanne' after racist tweets
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The upcoming US Senate election has produced some impressive Conservative Rising Stars under the age of 40. These candidates promise to keep your taxes low and your American pride high. With 33 of the 100 senate seats up for grabs in 2018, we should get to know our younger contenders. The following list explains the selection of each candidate as one of my top 5 Rising Stars. Josh Hawley is a conservative Rising Star from Missouri. Josh is a 38-year-old lawyer, a devout Christian, married to a professor of law, and a father of two adorable boys. One month after entering the Missouri Senate race, Hawley received the endorsement of President Trump. In May, he was campaigning with Vice President Mike Pence. At age 36, Hawley was elected Attorney General of Missouri. Before that, he clerked at the Supreme Court for Chief Justice John Roberts. Hawley is the only attorney on this list and would be a tremendous asset to the Senate during Supreme Court Justice confirmation hearings. Nick Freitas, representing my beloved Virginia, is a conservative Rising Star. Nick is a 38-year-old local Virginia delegate, married to his sweetheart, and a father of three. He calls himself a “liberty conservative,” and he has earned that title with his many debates on the Constitution and American freedom heritage. He has been endorsed by liberty Republican senators such as Rand Paul and Mike Lee. Freitas proudly completed two tours of duty in Iraq and has the support of Virginia’s service members. He also earned the support of the NRA for his fierce advocacy of the Second Amendment. He is a devout Christian and a family man. Eric Brakey of Maine is the youngest Rising Star on our list. He is 29 years old, serves as a Maine State Senator, and has been called a conservative “wunderkind” by the Washington Examiner. He was first elected to the Maine State Senate in 2014 at age 25. Brakey is a liberty-Republican who has been endorsed by Rand Paul, Ron Paul, and the National Association for Gun Rights. He advocates for free speech on college campuses, limited Federal government, and criminal justice reform. John James is a 36-year-old conservative Rising Star from Michigan. He is married, a father to two energetic boys, and a practicing Christian. James is an Army Captain and a West Point graduate. He has proven leadership skills through 8 years of service in the military and through leading his family business into $137 million in revenue. James stands for cleanly conservative values of classic constitutionalism, gun rights, and limitations on Federal spending. He has been endorsed by Marco Rubio, Mike Bishop, and Trump’s national security advisor John Bolton. As a business leader, James understands President Trump’s strategies for US businesses and respects Trump for keeping his campaign promises. Austin Petersen is a 37-year-old liberty Rising Star from Missouri. A 2016 Libertarian Presidential candidate, he has since changed to the Republican party due to his pro-life conservative views. Petersen is a self-made businessman, wears jeans with blazers, has a sharp sense of humor, and makes selfie videos to explain his political positions. He is the most modern and accessible candidate on our list. Petersen is a revolutionary Republican candidate, having motivated thousands of young people to fight for conservative values, something that other Republicans have struggled to achieve. These are young, driven, and hardworking candidates. Make sure to vote for them in the primaries. Republican primaries are coming up soon, so here are the dates for the candidates on this list: Maine - June 12, 2018 Virginia - June 12, 2018 Missouri - August 7, 2018 Michigan - August 7, 2018
Robert Mueller’s fishing expedition has been going on for more than a year. Now, Americans are telling MSNBC — much to the network’s consternation — that it may be time for Mueller to put up the “Gone Fishin'” sign on the special counsel’s door. A new poll released by MSNBC shows a majority of Americans think Mueller’s investigation is a “witchhunt,” much to the surprise of the people at the network. “The Robert Mueller investigation has yielded many indictments and convictions, but a recent poll shows most Americans believe Donald Trump’s pronouncement that the Russia probe is a baseless ‘witchhunt,'” the network said as they announced the poll, which merited a panel discussion anchored by Joy Reid as to “why the president is controlling the narrative on Mueller’s Russia investigation.” No, seriously. They really did say that. According to the survey, only 41 percent of people believe the Mueller investigation has uncovered crimes, compared to 59 percent who believe that it hasn’t. TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation has yielded many indictments and convictions, but a recent poll shows most Americans believe President Trump’s pronouncement that the Russia probe is a 'baseless witch hunt." https://t.co/Sx4JQdIcuW — MSNBC (@MSNBC) May 26, 2018 That’s an 18-point difference. There are Democrats in San Francisco who don’t win by that much. MSNBC, of course, is aghast. The investigation has uncovered crimes, they say! Which is technically true. But what sort of crimes? Do you think the Mueller investigation will uncover any wrongdoing by President Trump? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Only one major figure thus far — Michael Flynn, the former national security adviser to Trump — has pleaded guilty to the crime of making false statements to investigators. This conviction doesn’t seem to point to Russian collusion during the campaign, mostly because Flynn wasn’t even involved with the campaign at any significant level. Oh yes, there’s George Papadopoulos, the low-level staffer whose drunken ramblings are the basis for so many conspiracy theories. He also made false statements to investigators — and still, no evidence of collusion with the Russians. So, what are we going on now? Mueller, who was hired to investigate Russian meddling in the 2016 election, now seems to be focusing on a non-disclosure agreement with a porn star who’s hired a wonderfully self-promoting lawyer. That’s what our taxpayer dollars are being spent on. Former President Richard Nixon was one of the most secretive men to have ever commandeered the Oval Office, and in an era long before the internet or electronic records were normally kept. A little over two years after a “third-rate burglary,” a glassy-eyed Nixon was on the tube telling America that he would resign the office of the presidency at noon tomorrow, at which time Vice President Gerald Ford etc., you know the drill. By that time, Attorney General John Mitchell, White House Chief of Staff H.R. Haldeman, domestic affairs assistant John Ehrlichman, political affairs specialist Charles Colson and Nixon campaign lawyer G. Gordon Liddy had been indicted or pleaded guilty. White House counsel John Dean had started cooperating with the prosecution, and the vice president had resigned due to unrelated charges uncovered in the course of the investigation. The point is, the White House and president had been very clearly linked to the burglary as well as other sundry violations of the law. Love him or hate him, we can all agree on this: Donald J. Trump is the least discreet man to have ever held the office of the presidency, as his Twitter feed can attest to. RELATED: NYT Lies About Trump Crowd Size, Then Admits Crowd Was 550% Bigger Than It Said More than a year after Mueller started looking into links between the Trump campaign and Russia, no collusion (which isn’t even a crime) or conspiracy (which is) with Russia or Russian actors has been definitively uncovered by the special counsel. This, may I add, is the work they were actually empaneled to do. So far, the “convictions,” such as they stand, involve Flynn and a low-level campaign aide. Charges have been filed against Trump’s former campaign manager, Paul Manafort — a guy Trump liked so much that he fired him before the bananas in his office could even turn yellow. The Russia investigation seems to have taken a backseat to focusing on a payment made to a pornographic actress. This is all with unprecedented surveillance from the FBI, which may have included moles in the president’s campaign. Now, are we to expect that Nixon couldn’t cover up a third-rate burglary, but Trump — the man who tweets out every Big Mac he eats — has been able to conceal a Kremlin plot from the overzealous eyes of American intelligence? Is this really what MSNBC and Joy Reid want us to believe? Yes, there have been convictions, albeit of the most inconsequential sort. America seems to be saying what I am: Wake me up when the fishing expedition catches something — anything — of vital importance. Until then, this entire investigation has been a waste of airtime and money. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals. 1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths.
On Thursday night, the NBA Finals will tip off. While the name might be a first (going the NASCAR way, the NBA has rebranded the Finals as “The Finals 2018 presented by YouTube TV”), the matchup is probably going to be familiar to you — at least as far as the teams are concerned. Let’s take a look at 10 fast facts you need to know about the 2018 NBA Finals. 1) Yep, it’s Cavs vs. Warriors again. For the fourth straight year, the same teams will be in the NBA Finals: LeBron James’ Cleveland Cavaliers and Steph Curry’s Golden State Warriors. In spite of the fact that, before 2015, the Warriors hadn’t appeared in the Finals since 1975 and the Cavaliers had just made a single appearance in 2007 during James’ first stint with the team (getting swept 4-0 by the San Antonio Spurs), since 2015 no other team has managed to grace the championship series with their presence. That could change sometime in the near future; both the Cavs and the Warriors were pressed to seven games in their conference finals series by the Boston Celtics and the Houston Rockets, respectively. For this year, however, it’s going to be the Cavaliers and Warriors again. TRENDING: Browns player promises big gift to fans if Cavs win NBA Finals This sets the record for the number of times two teams have faced each other consecutively in the NBA Finals. For individual Finals’ appearances, both teams have a long, long way to go to match the 1957-1969 Boston Celtics. (And they say the East is weak these days.) 2) The Warriors are favored. Big. If you’re an NBA fan, you probably didn’t need me to tell you that the Warriors were going to be the favorite over the Cavaliers — they’ve been favored in all four series — but this year the odds of them winning are massive. Vegas odds had the Warriors as -1000 favorites. For those of you who don’t know gambling (and I’m sure that’s all of you), that means you have to bet $1,000 on them to win in order to make a profit of $100. Surprisingly, these aren’t actually the biggest odds the Warriors have gotten in any of the four series the two teams have played. Last year, they were favored by the astounding margin of +2000. (They ended up winning 4-1.) 3) In spite of this, LeBron and the Cavaliers can tie up this historical feud with a win. This is a Cavs team that’s just two years removed from pulling off one of the biggest upsets in NBA history when they dethroned the Warriors in seven games. If they can pull off another Joe Namath in Super Bowl III or UMBC over Virginia in this year’s NCAA tournament, they would tie the Warriors 2-2 in Finals appearances. In this case, a tie would be as good as a win. The Warriors are considered a team whose application for dynasty status is going to be approved by the admissions board without any qualms. Not only are they stacked with future Hall of Famers — the aforementioned Curry, Kevin Durant and Draymond Green — but they’ve changed the way the game has been played at every level. Literally. They’re the reason why you can go into any high school gym in this country and see 16-year-olds practicing threes instead of trying to dunk like they would have 10 years ago. James, for all of his personal accolades, stands accused of not getting it done in the Finals, despite making eight straight appearances. However, consider the cast around him — and the fact that he’s been the underdog in seven of the nine series that he’s played, including two of the three series he played with the Miami Heat superteam. (Ironically, it was the one series they were favored in — against the Dallas Mavericks — that he lost with Miami.) A tied record against the Warriors may not be Jordan’s six-for-six, but it’d certainly shut the detractors up. RELATED: Cavaliers get big boost for NBA Finals as Kevin Love is set to return 4) For better or worse, this is a way different Cavaliers team than started the season. There were enough changes for most franchises this year in Cleveland when Kyrie Irving was traded to Boston for Isaiah Thomas, Jae Crowder, Ante Žižić and a first-round draft pick Boston had gotten from the Nets (who are fond of giving those away). They’d also added Dwyane Wade and Derrick Rose, except both of those players had aged well beyond superstar status. Then, at the trade deadline on Feb. 8, things got a lot more weird. Thomas and Crowder were traded away, as were Channing Frye, Wade, Rose and Iman Shumpert. In return, they got Jordan Clarkson, George Hill, Rodney Hood and Larry Nance Jr. Cleveland got a lot younger, if a lot less experienced in the deal. They also took on a lot more salary — $15.5 million next season and $6.6 million in 2019-20. They’ve gone 19-10 since making the deals, as opposed to 31-22 before it. 5) These aren’t the same dominating Cavs of yesteryear. Part of the reason behind the dramatic moves made at the trade deadline was that the Cavaliers simply weren’t the dominating force that they were in seasons past. James’ Cavs finished fourth in the Eastern Conference, behind Toronto, Boston and Philadelphia, respectively. They beat the former two teams on the way to the Finals, with at least Boston giving them a real scare. The drama llama was also in full-time residence at Quicken Loans Arena. There was Irving’s exit before the season, which was what the kids like to call acrimonious, plus the trade deadline hullabaloo, plus head coach Tyronn Lue’s decision to take a leave of absence over health issues in March. (He would return in April.) Add in a front-office spat at the beginning of the year, the constant pressure on James to win another Finals and a whole host of other problems and you’re looking at a team that isn’t exactly living its best life now, as Joel Osteen might say. Nevertheless, they’re in the Finals, and stranger things have happened. (Remember, if you’d told anyone five years ago that the Cavaliers and Warriors would both appear in the Finals for four straight years, you’d likely have been placed on a psychiatric hold.) 6) These are still the same dominating Warriors of yesteryear. Don’t let the second-place finish in the Western Conference or the seven-game series against the Rockets fool you. That had more to do with the ascendency of the Rockets than with the Warriors getting worse. The 2017-18 Warriors had four players (Curry, Green, Durant and Klay Thompson) in the All-Star Game, the first time that any team has had four all-stars in four consecutive years and only the ninth time it’s happened, period. Yes, it’s the first time they haven’t made 60 wins under Steve Kerr. They still won their first two series easily and when the Rockets pushed them to seven games, Durant and Curry outscored the entire Rockets team 40-32 in the second half and the Warriors won 101-92. 7) Even though the odds are long, the viewership will likely be high. Game 7 of the Western Conference Finals in Oakland between the Warriors and Rockets was the most watched NBA game this season with 15 million viewers, while Cavs-Celtics was ESPN’s second-highest rated NBA game ever. Also, in spite of the fact that the Warriors were even bigger favorites last year, the series still managed to pull the highest Finals ratings since 1998. (That was Michael Jordan’s last NBA Finals, in case you weren’t keeping track.) In other words, the NBA is definitely on a ratings upswing, and if this year’s edition is more competitive than the oddsmakers may think, you could see a ratings bonanza. 8) If you’re looking for Steph Curry to shoot nothing but threes in the Finals, you may be disappointed. Yes, we know that Steph Curry is known to go downtown more often than an Uber driver. This all being said, his percentage of shots taken from three-point range actually dropped in the 2018 playoffs. Steph took 48 percent of his shots from beyond the arc during the playoffs — which isn’t an insignificant number, but it was down from 58 percent during the season. So, when the Finals start on Thursday night, don’t be surprised if you see fewer threes from Steph Curry. Of course, it may not matter either way — the Warriors have been the number one team in defense during the playoffs. They’ve only allowed 99.7 points per 100 possessions, well under their regular-season number of 104.2. We’ll guessing he’ll still be taking some threes, though, considering that he’s made a three-pointer in 86 consecutive playoff games. (Total number of playoff games Steph Curry has played: also 86.) 9) The Warriors are 14-1 in playoff openers under Steve Kerr. If the Cavaliers are hoping to get out to a quick start at Oracle Arena in Oakland on Thursday, they had better prepared. Like, really well prepared. Under Kerr, the Warriors have won 14 out of 15 of their playoff openers. Their only loss was to the Oklahoma City Warriors in the 2016 Western Conference Finals. (They would win that series 4-3, but lose to the Cavaliers in dramatic fashion in the NBA Finals.) Considering the perceived difference in talent between the two teams, however, a win in Oracle might be a must for Cavs if they’re to prove this won’t just be the coronation the media (and the bettors) seem to think it will be. 10) There could be a lot of record-setting during this year’s Finals. Curry’s 356 career playoff three-pointers is third on the list of most threes during the postseason, behind Ray Allen’s 385 and James’ 364. Meanwhile, Durant’s 28.79 points per game during the playoffs is fifth on the all-time list. Directly ahead of him? Also James, with 28.83. Jerry West (29.13) and Allen Iverson (29.73) could perhaps be in reach with a killer Finals for either. Michael Jordan, whose average is over 33 points per game, definitely isn’t. As for James, he’s also chasing the most playoff games of all time. He’s currently fifth with 235. He’ll almost certainly pass Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who has 237. That’s as high as he’ll go this year, however, as the next highest name on the list — Robert Horry — has played 244 playoff games. (Derek Fisher, who played during the Lakers’ dynasty in the 1990s and 2000s, holds the record with 259 playoffs games played.) Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Thursday at a discussion with The Washington Post, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said President Donald Trump’s language and policy on immigration and refugees was “un-American and appalling.” Partial transcript as follows: DAVID IGNATIUS: Let me just ask you, as somebody who came to America not simply as an immigrant, but as a refugee fleeing war, chaos in Europe, what do you think when you hear President Trump use some of the language that he does about immigrants? MADELEINE ALBRIGHT: Well, I’m appalled, but let me just—something that my father used to say, when we were in England, he would say, people were very kind and they’d come up and say, ‘We’re so sorry your country has been taken over by a terrible dictator. You’re welcomed here, what can we do to help you and when are you going home?’ And when we came to the United States people would say, ‘We’re so sorry that your country was taken over by a terrible system, you are welcome here, what can we do to help you and when will you become a citizen?’ And my father said that is what made America different from every other country. For me when I see what is happening now, I consider it an outrage. This country is based on diversity and people coming here and being proud to be Americans. One thing I love to do, is doing naturalization ceremonies, I can’t swear people in because I’m not an officer of the law but I can give them their naturalization certificate. The first time I did it was 2004 in Monticello, Thomas Jefferson’s home, and I figured since I had his job I could do that. And all of a sudden a man said, ‘Can you believe I’m a refugee and I just got my citizenship paper, naturalization papers from the secretary of state,’ and I went up to him and I said, ‘Can you believe that a refugee is secretary of state?’ And so when I think about what really people want to do and contribute and be a part of this country. The stunning number recently has been is we have deplored what, in fact, happened in Syria, where people were destroyed or suffered from a chemical attack. The number of Syrians that have been able to come to the United States is less than the number of people that were affected by that chemical weapon. So, really terrible in terms of—I have traveled around the United States a lot. We are a very large country. We have a lot of room. And I think people should be welcomed here, having been vetted in a number of different ways, but really, to be welcoming because that is what this country is based on. So, I think it’s un-American and appalling what is happening and then the other thing is, we can’t tell other countries what to do if we aren’t showing some kind of leadership in this. And one of the issues is, as we get more into what I think is happening in Europe, a lot of it has to do with the fact that migrants, refugees, are viewed—are not welcomed and if we want to tell the Europeans to take more, how can we possibly do that if our—if we are banning certain people, some of them very specifically against Muslims, and just generally, I think, un-American.
Astronomers believe they have identified six “dark galaxies” with few — if any — stars. The enigmatic blotches are shown up as shadows some 12 billion light-years away. We can’t actually see them. Instead, what we have are clues buried in the light of the galaxies around them. The universe itself is calculated to be 13.8 billion years old. And the oldest known star is 13.2 billion years. Their existence has been anticipated. But finding a galaxy that emits little or no light is obviously a testing task. Then there’s the added difficulty of proving what it is. But physicists from ETH Zurich have found six new candidates for what could be immense clouds of primeval gas and rocky debris. It’s the raw material left over from the dying embers of the Big Bang. Other galaxies have little of this raw “stuff” left. They are constantly recycling — and polluting — the stuff that makes them up through the life cycles of their stars. The Zurich researchers published the results of their work in The Astrophysical Journal. Ghost galaxies Dark galaxies are thought to be rare. For some reason, they are ineffective at forming and igniting stars. Instead, they’re filled with vast quantities of gas and matter not hot enough to emit enough light for our telescopes to see. Theoretical models of the birth and evolution of our universe suggest they should exist. They could have formed at a time when our universe was too immature for star formation. But little actual data has been assembled on them. This is possibly because most of them have been consumed. Astronomers believe much of their gas and material may have long since been drawn into larger galaxies, fuelling fresh bursts of star formation. “Despite substantial progress over the past half a century in understanding of how galaxies form, important open questions remain regarding how precisely the diffuse gas known as the intergalactic medium is converted into stars,” the researchers write. “One possibility, suggested in recent theoretical models, is that the early phase of galaxy formation involves an epoch when galaxies contain a great amount of gas but are still inefficient at forming stars.” Finding them, however, is a challenge. Shadow hunt While dark galaxies are dark, they’re not invisible. So it’s possible for them to distort and cast shadows from light glowing beyond them. Across the gulf of time and space, quasars — the brightest objects in the universe — are proving capable of casting light on the matter. A quasar is a bright ball of superheated plasma powered by the supermassive black holes in the center of most visible galaxies. It’s generated by the immense gravitational forces tearing apart and bashing together matter as it falls towards the event horizon. “They emit intense UV light, which in turn induces fluorescent emission in hydrogen atoms known as the Lyman-alpha line. As a result, the signal from any dark galaxies in the vicinity of the quasar gets a boost, making them visible,” the researchers write. So, if a hydrogen-bloated dark galaxy passes close to a quasar, its presence is revealed by distortions within the quasar’s light spectrum. Several possible dark galaxies were found in 2012. But a recent upgrade to the European Southern Observatory’s Very Large Telescope has enabled astronomers to peer further back in time and space than previously possible. It’s called the Multi Unit Sectroscopic Explorer (MUSE). They identified 200 sources of Lyman-alpha light. Deep observations of up to 10 hours for each of six quasar fields eliminated all but six as being likely dark galaxies. “Every quasar field observed with MUSE will offer the potential to discover new Dark Galaxy candidates and provide crucial information on the early and dark phases of galaxy formation,” the researchers wrote.
The unemployed millennial who was sued by his parents for... The unemployed millennial who has been ordered to pack up his belongings and vamoose from his parents’ home after they sued him says there’s one problem — he can’t afford moving boxes. Freeloader Michael Rotondo, 30, was ordered by an Onondaga County judge to get out of the house in upstate Camillus by noon Friday. His parents, Mark and Christina Rotondo, lowered the boom on their deadbeat son, who has been living with them rent-free for the past eight years, by suing him. Michael, who has a young son, told The Post this week that he wanted three months to move out — or he’d appeal the judge’s ruling. But he cited a practical matter that he said prevents him from moving out. “Mostly, I need to start packing my boxes so I can move,” he told Syracuse.com on Thursday. “But I have to pay for the boxes, which might be a problem.” Rotondo admitted Wednesday during an interview with CNN that he was jobless, but there’s at least one restaurant chain trying to change that. In a statement on Facebook, Villa Italian Kitchen offered the man a “store-level job” and training at any one of its 250 locations across the country. “At Villa, we feel for millennials, across the board. It’s tough out there,” the restaurant wrote. “With that said . . . we’re offering you a store-level gig, complete with extensive training to get you up to speed, at any one of our 250 locations worldwide.” The chain added, “We heard your parents offered you $1,100 to get out. We’ll do you one better. Literally, one. Offer from us is on the table for $1,101 to come join our team. Consider it a signing bonus. We gotchu, bud.” Rotondo has been told that if he fails to move out and get a job by June 1, Onondaga County sheriff’s deputies could forcibly remove him. “I’m aware that that’s how the ax falls,” he said Thursday. “I’m going to try to resolve this as civilly as possible.” Speaking to CNN on Wednesday, Rotondo tried to downplay the notion that many people believe he’s the walking definition of an entitled millennial. “I would say that I’m really not a member of that demographic that they’re speaking to,” Rotondo said, despite falling into the widely recognized age gap for millennials. “I’m a very conservative person,” he added. “The millennials that they’re speaking to are very liberal in their ideology.”
President Donald Trump said Thursday he is considering a pardon for celebrity Martha Stewart and commuting the prison sentence of former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich. The president discussed future pardons with reporters after announcing on Twitter that he wanted to pardon Dinesh D’Souza, who was convicted of reimbursing campaign donations to his friends. Trump noted that Blagojevich made a “foolish” remark by bragging about getting favors for a Senate appointment but suggested the 18-year sentence was too high. A plea from Blagojevich to reduce his 14-year sentence failed in 2016, meaning he faces prison until May 2024. He was convicted in 2011 for misusing his powers as governor, including an attempt to sell former President Barack Obama’s Senate seat before he was caught by the FBI. “Eighteen years in jail for being stupid and saying things that every other politician, you know that many other politicians say,” Trump said. “I don’t know him other than that he was on The Apprentice for a short period of time.” The president made his remarks after an off-the-record session with reporters during his Air Force One flight to Dallas, Texas. Trump noted that even though Blagojevich was Democrat, “He’s not my party. But I thought that he was treated unfairly.” Stewart was sentenced to five months in prison for lying about a stock sale and was prosecuted by former FBI director James Comey who was then the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York. Trump said that Stewart was “harshly and unfairly treated” “She used to be my biggest fan in the world … before I became a politician,” he said.
My youngest son's college graduation ceremony was scheduled to be held outdoors. The invitation specified that it would be moved inside to the gym only in the event of "severe" weather. As it turned out, the day was unseasonably cold (low 50s) with occasional drizzle -- probably about as nasty as the weather gets in May without qualifying for severe status. Yet my husband and I huddled together in the stands of Franklin Field and wouldn't have missed it for the world. Ceremonies are important. We need markers for the milestones of our lives. They seal the moment that is both an ending and a beginning. So much changes so fast in our world that it is comforting to settle into honored rituals. As the strains of Edward Elgar's "Pomp and Circumstance" pipe through the stadium, you feel a stirring of memory and a sense of peace. It has always been like this. It always will be. Some things are timeless. Or so we hope. Along with the usual assortment of political science, English and math majors, the University of Pennsylvania confers degrees in fields that scarcely existed when I was an undergrad. Students strode across the stage to accept diplomas for studies such as biophysics, bioengineering and something called the Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research (VIPER). We all smiled when the dean of the engineering school presented his candidates by quoting a scientist: "The future is hard to predict. But the best way to predict it is to invent it." Nice. And, if you'll indulge a little chauvinism, innovation remains a great American strength. Most commencement addresses are dull recitations of cliches, though some stand out. Penn's award-winning psychology professor Angela Duckworth, who has made a splash with her research into the importance of grit in school and in life, delivered a modest and uplifting address about how her career meandered before she finally settled into her specialty. Her advice: It's OK to not have things figured out. But one cliche that dominates many commencement addresses really should be retired, and that's the one that exhorts the graduates to go out and change the world. High school and college graduates don't know very much about the world. Maybe before they set out to change things, they should get a good grasp of how things actually work. Ask them the difference between term and whole life insurance, or how to change a tire, or how much to save every month, or whether you should call a cop after a fender bender. Ask them if they've ever organized a dance, far less a factory. There are always things that need changing, of course. Nor should we wish to curdle the natural idealism of the young. But along with calls for change, shouldn't the young be reminded of the preciousness of their inheritance? So many of the things they take for granted were achieved by their forebears at great cost -- and I'm not referring to what the parents spent for those fancy degrees. So many things about our society work well. Our supermarkets are stocked with food from around the globe. Our homes, offices and cars are heated and cooled for our comfort. Emergency help is available nearly everywhere by dialing 911. Just as crucial as trying to fix what's broken is taking the time to appreciate and shore up what is sound. The great liberal virtue is impatience with injustice. The great conservative virtue is gratitude. Before graduates are urged to change the world, perhaps they should be encouraged to change themselves or, at least, to look inward. How many people have vainly resolved to lose 10 pounds or to donate 10 percent of their income to the less fortunate? Change is hard, even when -- or perhaps especially when -- you're trying to change yourself. If you've been unable to reform yourself, take that humility to the world, and remember it when you notice others' flaws. Each graduate can ask himself: How kind was I to my siblings this year, and how dutiful to my parents? Taking his place in the adult world, he should resolve first of all to do the things within his own power: to be a faithful spouse and a reliable parent. Humility, duty, self-examination, gratitude. Perhaps those are not the most inspiring words. But heeded, they stand the best chance of truly changing the world.
Speaker Paul Ryan undercut President Donald Trump on Thursday after Trump ended a delay on tariffs imposed on foreign steel and aluminum. Ryan said in a statement on Thursday: I disagree with this decision. Instead of addressing the real problems in the international trade of these products, today’s action targets America’s allies when we should be working with them to address the unfair trading practices of countries like China. There are better ways to help American workers and consumers. I intend to keep working with the president on those better options. On Thursday, America ended a delay on steel and aluminum tariffs for the European Union, Canada, and Mexico. Speaker Ryan’s opposition to the tariffs on foreign steel contrasts with his Republican base. A Morning Consult poll in March revealed that 70 percent of Republican voters support Trump’s tariffs on foreign steel and aluminum. The survey also suggested that a plurality of Americans—41 percent — support Trump’s tariffs. Another poll suggested that more than 80 percent of Americans support Trump’s trade economic nationalism. Daniel McCarthy, the editor of the conservative Modern Age, told Breitbart News Saturday in March that the “Republican party was built on economic nationalism.” McCarthy explained: If we go back further than 30 years, we go back to the 19th century, the Republican party was built on economic nationalism and a party supported strong tariffs, people like President McKinley for example stand out as strong leaders of that. The Republican party has a long tradition of supporting American industry. Speaker Ryan announced in April that he will not seek reelection at the end of this congressional term. Since Ryan announced his retirement, he has had to balance the competing interests of the moderate wing of the House Republican conference, that wants to pass a Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) illegal alien amnesty, and the House Freedom Caucus, that wants to pass the Trump-endorsed Goodlatte immigration bill. Speaker Ryan failed to garner enough votes to pass the Farm bill in May after the Freedom Caucus did not believe that the House Republican leadership would put the Goodlatte immigration bill on the House floor for a vote. Former Freedom Caucus chairman Jim Jordan (R-OH) told Breitbart News Saturday in May that conservative and moderate members have become frustrated with Speaker Ryan and the House Republican leadership. A number of conservative leaders have led a campaign to draft Jordan to become the next Speaker of the House. In the letter, the conservative leaders said that the current House leadership has “utterly failed” and “proven that it’s part of the Swamp.”
It’s a lot of pressure to play a J.K. Rowling character onscreen — but British actress Holliday Grainger, the star of crime drama “C.B. Strike,” says she felt relaxed about it. “I’m a massive fan of J.K. Rowling. I loved the Harry Potter books and I loved these [‘Cormoran Strike’] books,” says Grainger, 30, of the BBC/Cinemax series. “But I felt almost an ownership of Robin when I first read it. I felt like she was someone that would fit easily into my friendship group.” “C.B. Strike,” based on the first three novels of Rowling’s “Cormoran Strike” detective series — originally published in 2013 under the pseudonym Robert Galbraith — follows Cormoran Strike (Tom Burke, “The Musketeers”), a one-legged Afghanistan war vet turned private detective in London. Grainger’s character, Robin, is his temporary secretary who discovers a knack for the trade and eventually becomes his professional partner. Together they investigate cases including a supermodel’s suspicious death and a missing author. “I do love the crime genre — Nordic noir like ‘The Killing,’ ” says Grainger, who’s also appeared in Showtime’s “Patrick Melrose” and “The Borgias.” “So what’s kind of exciting to be doing a different take on it,” she says. “When I read [the books], I couldn’t pigeonhole it into a box of something that I’d seen before. The tone is a bit lighter, very contemporary, set in a tangible London that I can understand. But it still has an essence of something kind of retro about it.” “C.B. Strike,” which already aired in the UK under the name “Strike,” consists of seven episodes premiering June 1 on Cinemax. The story contains three close-ended mysteries, even as Cormoran and Robin’s relationship develops in a serialized fashion. In the same vein as Fox’s “Bones,” the two have a mild “will they/won’t they” dynamic in the background of the murder mysteries. The first three episodes adapt the first novel (published in 2013); the subsequent two books play out over two episodes each. Since Rowling hasn’t published the fourth book yet, the show will not resume making more episodes until ensuing books come out. Grainger says she wishes she was more of a geek so that she could question Rowling more about the books. (The two chatted on the phone during production, and Grainger says, “I heard she had watched my [audition] tapes and thought I was right for the part.”) “I’m dying to ask Jo [Rowling] so much about Robin, a lot of it seems so personal,” she says. “If I was more of a geek and didn’t try to play it cool, I would have totally wanted to ask her more about what her inspiration for Robin was. I’ve heard a few people say they think Robin is an aspect of Jo herself. I’d love to pick her brain about exactly where certain bits of Robin’s backstory came from, but I haven’t done that yet. One day, maybe.”
Days after her daughter Elisabeth came into the world, first-time mom Maria Chamberlain noticed some disconcerting symptoms in her newborn. The baby was gassy, her breath smelled rancid and she had a persistent white coating on her tongue. “I thought, this can’t be normal,” the 27-year-old Jersey City, NJ, resident tells The Post. Chamberlain, who struggled to breast-feed, suspected an allergy to the formula the hospital had supplied and started trying out different brands. She tested out Similac, Enfamil and Gerber without seeing any improvement. So she took to the Internet, where she discovered HiPP: a European, organic baby formula produced in Germany, the UK and the Netherlands. As soon as Elisabeth started drinking it, Chamberlain noticed a difference in her digestion and her overall demeanor. “Ever since we switched, it’s been night and day,” Chamberlain, a journalist, says of her now thriving 9-month-old. ‘Ever since we switched, it’s been night and day.’ Although she was unable to consult a pediatrician due to health-insurance issues, her daughter’s dramatic turnaround convinced Chamberlain that HiPP was superior to the typical American options. Like wine lovers who sing the praises of French vino and beer connoisseurs who favor German brews, another group of local Europhiles is emerging: parents who will only feed their babies imported formula. Citing benefits such as fewer artificial ingredients and the use of lactose — instead of corn syrup — as a sweetener, discriminating American moms and dads order boxes of HiPP and popular German brand Holle from online distributors. Like any chic European product, these formulas are pricier than their American counterparts. A 28.2-ounce box of HiPP goes for $43 (including shipping), compared to a similarly sized $26 container of Similac Advance, or the $28 organic Earth’s Best. It makes about 35 5-ounce bottles, or a week of food for a baby under 6 months old. But converts say it’s worth it. “At least four years ago I noticed the pattern starting,” says Dr. TJ Gold, a pediatrician at Tribeca Pediatrics’ Park Slope office. “Parents would ask me if I knew anything about Holle. And in the past two years, instead of asking questions, they’re just using it.” Raquelle Steifler, 37, is one such mother. “I’m on a Listserv for parents in Brooklyn, and a lot of them recommend Holle,” the Williamsburg resident tells The Post. So she didn’t feel the need to check with a pediatrician before starting her son Lyon, now 11 months old, on the German formula. Like most Euro-formula fans, Steifler worries about staying well-stocked. Few American sites sell HiPP and Holle, and they’re at risk of being shut down by the Food and Drug Administration, which strictly regulates formula domestically. And while it’s legal to purchase overseas brands for personal use, the import laws are murky, leading to shipping delays — or worse. In the Facebook group “Holle and HiPP Formulas,” which currently has more than 5,000 members, moms share horror stories about paying top dollar for formula that arrives past its expiration date. They’re also fearful about unwittingly feeding their children bottles mixed from counterfeit powders. Steifler, a designer, says she sticks to retailers OK’ed by other members of the Brooklyn moms Listserv, and looks for other hallmarks of credibility on the Web sites, such as domestic 1-800 numbers. Still, she knows it’s a gamble. “I throw my hands up in the air and hope I’m buying something good,” she says. “I don’t really know how anyone knows for sure.” Despite the risks and costs, Kristin Sears, 38, is confident that feeding Holle to her 2 ¹/₂-year-old son Lukas for that first year was the right move. “When breast-feeding didn’t work out, I got him Enfamil because that’s what the pediatricians all recommend,” the Williamsburg resident, whose father is Zone diet founder Dr. Barry Sears, tells The Post. But she stopped using it over concerns she had with some of the ingredients. While a growing number of moms and dads share her skepticism about the use of certain oils and sweeteners in domestic baby formula, Gold maintains that the popular American brands are perfectly safe and nutritious. “There are no studies out there saying [HiPP and Holle] are fantastically better products,” Gold says. “And I’ve been doing this too long to say that, either. I’ve seen children thrive on Holle — but also on Similac and Enfamil.” (A representative for Enfamil states that there are no artificial flavors or preservatives used in its infant formulas.) But as Maria Chamberlain points out, nutritional stats aren’t the only thing that matters when it comes to feeding your kid — emotions are a big part of it, too. “Mothers who struggle with breast-feeding tend to feel guilty,” she says. “I know I did. Like, why can’t I provide this? So, if I’m able to buy her the best formula available, I want to do it.”
A military family in Texas received a special honor on Saturday for their loved one who was posthumously awarded a Purple Heart medal. Army Private First Class Raul Herrera Sr. served in World War II and passed away in 1992, but never received the Purple Heart for his wounds endured in service. "He was awarded a bronze star, received his bronze star but he was never awarded a Purple Heart," Col. Rojelio Herrera Jr., his son, told FOX San Antonio. Herrera Jr. told KENS5 his father was wounded in 1944 when he faced enemy fire while delivering much-needed supplies and ammunition to fellow soldiers. His father sprinted through dangerous territory multiple times to secure the items. "He got wounded in the hand," Herrera Jr. told KENS5 We're not sure how bad because he went to an aid station or he got treated and he continued on, never left the unit." 'VETERANS MATTER' HELPS HOUSE THOUSANDS OF HOMELESS VETERANS Herrera's other son, Raul, told FOX San Antonio it may have been for a variety of reasons. "Back in the 70s there was a fire at the St. Louis repository for military records and a lot of the records were burnt, so part of dad's file was also charred," he said. Family members from Los Angeles and Chicago gathered in San Antonio on Saturday as part of the presentation of the Purple Heart. Many of the family members, including Herrera's sons, served in the armed forces. "It was something that my dad deserved,” Herrera Jr., himself a Vietnam veteran, told KENS5. “And to know that the system works and that he finally got it is very rewarding. I wish he were actually here.”
Drake took to social media Wednesday to address a photo that rival rapper Pusha T used in his artwork for a new track blasting the Canadian artist for a number of reasons. Pusha T released the song “The Story of Adidon” on Tuesday using an image of Drake in blackface — yet another chapter in the bitter feud between the two artists. Drake said he knew “everyone is enjoying the circus,” but wanted to clarify a few things about the photo Pusha T used. “This was not from a clothing brand shoot or my music career,” Drake wrote in an Instagram message. “This picture is from 2007, a time in my life where I was an actor and I was working on a project that was about young black actors struggling to get roles, being stereotyped and type cast. The photos represented how African Americans were once wrongfully portrayed in entertainment.” In Pusha T’s song, he claims that Drake is a “deadbeat” father who had a son with a former French porn star. Drake had previously denied the claim. Pusha T's new jab comes days after Drake responded to one of his songs from his latest album, “Daytona.” The feud between the two rap stars reignited last week when Pusha T’s new album, produced by Kanye West, was released. In his song “Infrared,” Pusha T accuses Drake of continuing to use a ghostwriter to write songs for him – something Philadelphia rapper Meek Mill had accused him of doing as well. Drake responded by releasing the song “Duppy Freestyle” on Friday hitting out at Pusha T and likening him to a faded autograph, according to Billboard. Drake went on to say that he would request a $100,000 invoice from Pusha T for “promotional assistance and career reviving.” It’s unclear whether Drake will continue this feud any further. But with his album “Scorpion” set to drop June 30, Pusha T might be hearing from the OVO-label artist once more.
In her show “Full Frontal” on TBS Wednesday, Trump-hating left-wing comedian Samantha Bee used an obscene and sexist term in a disgusting attack on President Trump’s daughter and adviser Ivanka, calling her a “feckless c---.” This comes on the heels of ABC cancelling the hit show “Roseanne” this week after Roseanne Barr tweeted out a disgusting racist rant about Valerie Jarrett, an African-American woman who served as senior White House aide to former President Obama. But no one at TBS is talking about Bee losing her job. Let’s be clear: There is absolutely no excuse for Barr’s racism. But in exactly the same way, there is absolutely no excuse for Bee’s sexist tirade against Ivanka Trump. Just because she’s a woman, Bee shouldn’t get a pass on using a term that has long been used to demean and insult women, characterizing us as stupid sex objects. If Bee had directed such vulgar insults at the female members of the Obama family I’d condemn them as well. Every woman – and man, for that matter – should. But why is it perfectly OK to throw the same insult at Ivanka Trump? White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders called on TBS and Time Warner (the parent company of TBS as well as CNN) on Thursday to take action, saying: “The language used by Samantha Bee last night is vile and vicious. The collective silence by the left and its media allies is appalling.” Sanders added of Bee: “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast, and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network.” What prompted Bee’s vulgar attack? Ivanka Trump had tweeted out a photo of herself with her young son. As if no mother had ever proudly shared a photo of her beloved child with others. Bee said on her show: “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c---!” Only Bee used the full word, without the dashes. And then, to pile on even more vulgarity, Bee said, addressing Ivanka: “He (the president) listens to you! Put on something tight and low cut and tell your father to f------ stop it.” And she used the full obscene word, uncensored, here as well. This was another convenient opportunity for Bee to attack the current law that’s made headlines recently allowing immigrant kids brought to the U.S. illegally by their parents to be separated from their parents at the border. I don’t recall Bee’s outrage at the law when President Obama was in office, nor do I recall her making obscene sexist comments about Michelle Obama or the two Obama daughters at the time. If Bee had directed such vulgar insults at the female members of the Obama family I’d condemn them as well. Every woman – and man, for that matter – should. But why is it perfectly OK to throw the same insult at Ivanka Trump? Nor did Bee have any harsh words for the last administration when Democrats mistakenly tweeted out photos of children being kept in cages at the border, thinking they were current photos, only to realize they were from President Obama’s time in office. However, when Bee saw an opportunity she gladly took the chance to go after Ivanka Trump over a sweet mother and son moment captured on camera, proving there is no gutter too filthy for her to venture into. What a difference in how Roseanne Barr – a supporter of President Trump – was treated for an inexcusable racist insult directed at another woman. It took ABC only hours to make the call to cancel Barr’s hit show after she tweeted about Valerie Jarrett, using Jarrett’s initials: “muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj.” So why is there is no indication from TBS now that Samantha Bee’s job is in jeopardy? Barr’s tweet triggered outrage – as it should have – but why is there no outrage to be heard about the vile, most disgusting word you can use to describe a woman, by someone who would describe herself as a feminist? Where are all the voices of so-called female empowerment coming to Ivanka’s defense? Will the ladies on “The View” call out Bee for her vulgarity and defend Ivanka? Imagine their outrage if one of them had been called a “feckless c---” on national television. Will we see House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., condemn Bee’s use of filthy language against another woman? Will the Hollywood feminists who’ve fed us a nearly daily dose of their “resist” movement, resist Bee and call on TBS to cancel “Full Frontal?” If you have to think about that, then you haven’t been paying attention. This is a new day and there are new rules we supposedly have to play by, and none of them have anything to do with doing the right thing. If you’re an anti-Trump zealot, you’re almost always guaranteed freedom of consequences for your speech. No matter how vile, filthy or disgusting. Sexism is perfectly fine, as long as the target is a Republican woman. It’s doubtful that Time Warner and TBS will fire Bee and send the same message that was sent by the industry when Barr was fired. The double standard in this game of how low can you go is alarming. The silence on the left is deafening.
In the end, there were too many reasons to wait. Too many factors suggesting it was in Shamorie Ponds’s best interest to return to school. There was his age — he doesn’t turn 20 until next month — a weak draft class next year, and the feedback from NBA teams saying it would be prudent to be patient. And so after going back and forth for weeks about whether to keep his name in the NBA draft, St. John’s star sophomore opted to return to school, according to his father, Shawn, the day before the draft deadline. He will be on campus this week for summer classes, which start Wednesday. “It was a real hard decision,” Shawn said in a phone interview. “Ultimately, that’s his dream. He wanted to go to the NBA. But that’s a 19-year-old kid. We explained to him, if it doesn’t happen this year, you still have another year. Best thing for you is education. … To get a degree in three years outweighed everything.” Reason won out. The family came to a decision late Monday night. The smooth 6-foot-1 Brooklyn native will come back to St. John’s for his junior year, and will likely be the Big East Preseason Player of the Year after leading the conference in scoring at 21.6 points per game. He also averaged 5.0 rebounds, 4.7 assists and 2.3 steals, and keyed the Red Storm’s strong finish that included wins over national champion Villanova and Duke. He had workouts with the Nets, Jazz, Nuggets, Lakers, Cavaliers, and Celtics after not getting invited to the NBA Combine. All the teams said the same thing. Ponds, who is on pace to graduate in three years, would, at best, be a second-round pick. He should go back to school. Get stronger, eat better, develop further as a point guard. St. John’s coach Chris Mullin told the family the same things, based on his conversations with NBA personnel. He was involved throughout the process. “You want to be a pro, now go act like a pro,” Shawn told his son. “He wasn’t receptive to the idea at first, but as we sat down and explained it to him, he understood.”
President Donald Trump wants to use trade policy to squeeze German carmakers so that there are no Mercedes-Benz models driving down New York City’s Fifth Avenue, according to a German magazine citing unnamed U.S. and European diplomats. German business and current affairs magazine Wirtschaftswoche reported that President Trump told French President Emmanuel Macron in April that he would push German automakers out of the U.S. market altogether. Shares of German automakers fell Thursday following the report. The Trump administration last week launched a Section 232 trade investigation into vehicle imports. Section 232 investigations assess whether imports damage national security. The result could be a 25 percent tariff on foreign-made cars, similar to the result of the Section 232 investigation into steel and aluminum imports. At that level, tariffs would likely crush imports of German cars. The U.S. market for luxury cars is dominated by German automakers, which account for around 90 percent of luxury car sales. The European Union imposes a 10 percent tariff on cars imported from the U.S. The U.S. tariff on European made cars is currently 2.5 percent. TheWirtschaftswoche report did not say what trade barriers Trump planned to use to lock German cars out of the U.S. market. Breitbart News could not independently confirm theWirtschaftswoche report. No U.S. news agency has confirmed Trump’s reported remarks to Macron. The top German carmakers also own several brands not necessarily always thought of as “German” cars. Volkswagen controls Bentley, and Bugatti. BMW owns Rolls-Royce.
The wife of Philadelphia 76ers executive Bryan Colangelo may actually be the one who used fake social media accounts to trash players and league officials, Twitter sleuths revealed Wednesday. A Twitter account called “Did the Sixers Win” figured out why three of the accounts that Colangelo himself was accused of having had different numbers. The account discovered that Barbara Bottini, Colangelo’s wife, had the same phone number ending in the same digits as the number tied to some of the accounts, according to Sports Illustrated. The discovery would explain how the “Eric jr” account would have been able to tweet about a Joel Embiid injury in 2017 while Colangelo was addressing the media. Colangelo defended himself even further on Wednesday, telling Yahoo Sports that he believes there’s someone “out to get” him. The 76ers launched an investigation after The Ringer published a report linking Colangelo to five Twitter accounts that were taking shots at 76ers stars Joel Embiid and Markelle Fultz, former general manager Sam Hinkie, Toronto Raptors executive Masai Ujiri and former 76ers players Jahlil Okafor and Nerlens Noel. Colangelo, 52, confirmed that at least one of the accounts was his. “Like many of my colleagues in sports, I have used social media as a means to keep up with the news,” the statement said. “While I have never posted anything whatsoever on social media, I have used the @Phila1234567 Twitter account referenced in this story to monitor our industry and other current events. This storyline is disturbing to me on many levels, as I am not familiar with any of the other accounts that have been brought to my attention, nor do I know who is behind them or what their motives may be in using them.” Colangelo is a two-time Executive of the Year Award winner and has served as a top executive in NBA front offices with three different teams – the Phoenix Suns, Raptors and 76ers. His father, Jerry Colangelo, 78, the longtime Phoenix Suns owner, now serves as a 76ers adviser.
Former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett said she finds the Roseanne cancellation as a “teaching moment.” She also said that Bob Iger, the CEO of Disney, had called to inform her of the news of the show’s cancellation Despite solid ratings, the television reboot of the show was abruptly cancelled after Roseanne Barr sent a racist tweet directed at Jarrett (via NBC News): Valerie Jarrett reacts to Roseanne Barr tweet: "I'm fine. I'm worried about all the people out there who don't have a circle of friends and followers who come right to their defense." pic.twitter.com/Ct8Bad40HI — Axios (@axios) May 29, 2018 Valerie Jarrett, former adviser to President Barack Obama, responded to actress Roseanne Barr’s comment referring to her as an “ape” on Tuesday, saying ABC made the right decision in canceling its hit sitcom starring the actress. "First of all, I think we have to turn it into a teaching moment. I’m fine. I’m worried about all the people out there who don’t have a circle of friends and followers coming to their defense,” Jarrett said during a town hall on MSNBC called “Everyday Racism in America.” When asked if ABC made the right call in canceling the sitcom “Roseanne,” Jarrett said that the network did and that Bob Iger, the chief executive officer of Disney, had called her before the announcement. Iger apologized, Jarrett said, adding that he told her there would be zero tolerance for those types of comments. Prior to the show’s cancellation, the show lost two key players on their production team: head writer Wanda Sykes quit and executive producer, writer, and co-show runner Whitney Cummings also announced that she would be leaving the show. It had been renewed for another season. Barr has since apologized for the tweet, saying it was a bad joke. She had tweeted, “Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj."
A serial transit bandit testified in a special hearing that he’s commandeered trains 5,000 times since his lifelong passion erupted at the tender age of 15 — when he was first arrested. Darius McCollum, who has been busted over 30 times for illegally driving buses and trains in the city, took the witness stand in a special hearing to determine whether he is a danger to society and what kind of facility he will be committed to at his sentencing. McCollum, who has Asperger’s syndrome, took a plea deal in January to his most recent bust, for stealing a Greyhound bus, on the condition that he would indefinitely be committed to a psychiatric facility. Brooklyn prosecutor Janet Gleeson asked, “How many times have you taken [MTA] trains in your life without permission or authority?” McCollum responded, “Probably a couple of thousand times,” noting he often wore MTA uniforms that he’d gotten from retired transit worker pals. McCollum said if you factored in his hundreds of joyrides on LIRR, Amtrak and Metro North trains he had manned the controls some 5,000 times —despite no formal training. He said his unofficial education in train operation started when he was just 12 and older MTA workers gave him pointers. The transportation fanatic admitted that he knew he was risking the lives of Greyhound passengers when he drove them during a 2015 snow storm but said he did it anyway because, “They were shorthanded on staff.” Gleeson pressed, “The only reason you drove those buses is because Greyhound was short that day?” McCollum answered, “That would be affirmative. Yes.” The 52-year-old also admitted to having forged ID’s for many of the transportation companies and agencies and said he bought fake CIA and Homeland Security badges that he would flash when people got suspicious. “On the most recent time you drove a Greyhound bus in the snow did you ever consider the fact you should not be driving a huge bus with passengers in that weather?” Gleeson asked. see also Meet New York's beloved mass transit bandit New York’s subway system drives many of us crazy, but... He answered, “I had to convince myself that I could do it. So I’m going to say that I had to get it done.” Gleeson pressed, “What were you thinking when you were driving passengers in inclement weather?” “I was concerned for the passengers to get them to the destination they had to go to,” McCollum plainly stated. McCollum testified that he felt “important” when he was operating the trains and buses and said despite the risk of arrest he continued because, “It was my hobby and my passion.” McCollum’s lawyer, Sally Butler, who began her cross-examination of him Wednesday afternoon said, “I am trying to get the judge to see the people who have Asperger’s don’t belong in a locked up facility.” The hearing will continue on June 8.
Paris Jackson admitted she made a hasty exit from a Christian Dior fashion show last week because she didn’t approve of the brand’s use of animals in their presentation. “To be clear, I did not ‘storm out’ of the show,” Jackson, 20, tweeted Tuesday. “I quietly got up and walked out trying my hardest to not cause a scene, because I do not support animals being branded and whipped. Not trying to become enemies in the fashion world in any way, but I will always be myself.” Sources previously told Page Six that the late King of Pop‘s It Girl daughter left in a huff after seeing the first model hit the catwalk and went outside to prance around in puddles outside. The show reportedly featured a re-creation of a “Mexican rodeo with all-female riders performing daredevil stunts,” which insiders told us offended the starlet. Related Video 1:09 Paris Jackson refused to sit by and watch Dior's horse show
It took two years, boycotts by fans, declining TV ratings, growing alarm among advertisers, a drop in the sale of gear and especially a public shaming by President Trump, but the owners of NFL teams have finally decided their players will not be allowed to kneel or make other protests during the playing of the national anthem. The NFL Players Association claims the owners’ decision violates the players’ “free speech rights.” No it doesn’t. Players are perfectly free to protest anywhere, anytime they wish, just not at the start of games for which the owners pay them large amounts of money they are unlikely to make elsewhere. If you think free speech rights are valid wherever and whenever one wants to speak, try protesting something on company time where you work and see how long you keep your job. The NFL is a business. The business is sports. If any other business is hurt by the behavior of its employees, management either requests a change in behavior, or sacks the employee for the sake of the bottom line and the morale of other employees and customers. If players take the owners’ check, the owners have a right to lay down certain rules, as in football. Players who want to make a difference beyond symbolic protests, which they say raises awareness about racial injustice and other inequalities, can use their financial resources and celebrity to invest in the lives of people they regard as victims. Perhaps they could pay for the private education of children trapped in failing public schools or provide job training and child care for single mothers who rely on government assistance. Some players do go beyond protests with their good works. The protesters and others can follow their example. With its decision to order players to stop the demonstrations, the NFL isn’t finished. Their next issue should be how their cheerleaders are treated. It’s been a long time since NFL cheerleaders actually led cheers. Today, they shake their barely clothed bodies in suggestive ways while male fans who have consumed too much beer can ogle them. NFL owners have done well by banning protests during the national anthem. They should now act to stop the harassment of their cheerleaders. And it shouldn’t take two years to do it. Cheerleaders have recently gone public with complaints that some NFL teams encourage their participation in off-the-field events, which subject them to unwanted sexual advances. As The New York Times reported last month, “… performing at sporting events is only a small part of their job description. They are also required to fulfill what often is the unsavory side of the job: interacting with fans at games and other promotional events, where groping and sexual harassment are common.” The cheerleaders told the newspaper that team officials with the NFL, as well as those associated with the National Basketball Association (NBA) and National Hockey League (NHL), are aware of the problem, but have done little or nothing to stop it. They should. Sexual harassment is illegal and with the #metoo movement, clearly the “rules” and level of tolerance for such inappropriate behavior have changed. While skimpy outfits might encourage certain men to think they are invited to make advances toward women, and while these cheerleaders might wish to dress more modestly at off-field events (which they should not be forced to attend) that does not absolve men from sexually harassing them. NFL owners have done well by banning protests during the national anthem. They should now act to stop the harassment of their cheerleaders. And it shouldn’t take two years to do it.
Kathy Griffin advised fellow comedian Samantha Bee Thursday not to apologize for her obscene insult in which the TBS late-night house called White House adviser Ivanka Trump a “Cunt.” Bee found herself the subject of intense criticism and advertiser pullouts after she referred to the president’s daughter as a “feckless cunt” on her Wednesday Full Frontal show. . @iamsambee please do not apologize. — Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) May 31, 2018 Bee evidently did not put much stock in Griffin’s advice, apologizing for “cross[ing] a line” and calling her conduct “inappropriate and inexcusable” Thursday. Bee, in turn, received what appears to be a full acceptance of that apology from her network, TBS. Voices from the political Right, including First Lady Melania Trump saw the handling of Bee’s offensive remark, the latest in a long line of vicious attacks on women associated with President Donald Trump, as part of widespread double-standard in the media. Left-leaning figures, according to this view, are seldom subjected to the outrage and ruin directed at conservatives who make inappropriate comments. Griffin’s unsolicited advice for Bee came amid a slew of tweets questioning if the outrage over Bee’s insult was genuine. The day before, she launched in a 52-tweet defense of her own decision to pose for a photo shoot holding a bloody effigy of a decapitated President Trump last year. Griffin made the same claims about the outrage over these photos last year, calling it “complete BS.” A) One year ago today my Trump photo was released. I have planned on doing this thread for a while but the fact that Sarah Sanders brought my name up at the podium today makes it even more appropriate for me to share some thoughts on what happened. Hope you'll take a look…. pic.twitter.com/kORS1RgfVz — Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) May 31, 2018 The photos cost Griffin her jobs with networks like CNN. Griffin did apologize for her conduct, but later retracted that apology, letting loose a new obscene insult aimed at the president. Griffin doubled down on her stance, calling White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders a “hack” and claiming her characterization of Bee’s remarks as “disgusting” raised First Amendment concerns: Shut the fuck up you hack. When the White House Press Secretary, on behalf of the President, says “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast..” we’re heading into first amendment territory. That I have to explain this to you reminds me how dumb you are. https://t.co/UGAOapDVG8 — Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) May 31, 2018 Griffin also took the opportunity to promote her upcoming comedy tour by assuring fans the fallout from Bee’s insult and Roseanne Barr, who was promptly fired over an offensive tweet this week, will feature in her material:
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo's administration is hard at work to assure "equality for women," according to an ad on Twitter. In fact, his office has "the strongest sexual assault policy in the nation." Some noted that the message was posted at an unfortunate time. Is this a joke? On same day @timesunion publishes story on another female staffer being harassed by high ranking state official who wasn’t held accountable. pic.twitter.com/9pWwdNMUnp — Jessica Proud (@jessicaproud) May 30, 2018 James "Jay" Kiyonaga, second-in-command at the Office for People with Developmental Disabilities, was fired by Cuomo's office Wednesday following sexual misconduct complaints. Patricia Gunning, a former attorney at the state's Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs, who used to be deputy director of OPWDD, was one of several female staffers to accuse Kyonaga of sexually harassing her. When nothing was done, she filed a discrimination complaint accusing Cuomo's administration of covering it up. It was a "complete failure of the governor's office and the state to deal with this serial sexual harasser and discriminator," she claims. "By September 2017, Mr. Kiyonaga's 15 years in state employ had a consistent pattern," according to the report. "He fostered a boys' club atmosphere in the agencies where he worked. He favored women he found attractive. He retaliated against women who complained." Kiyonaga's firing (better late than never) comes a couple weeks after we learned of New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman history of domestic abuse. Ronan Farrow, whose reporting on Harvey Weinstein's sexual assault allegations earned him the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service, helped break the Schneiderman scandal for The New Yorker. His female sources described how Schneiderman had physically abused them. The AG denied the allegations, defending his encounters with the women as sexual "role play," but complied with Gov. Cuomo when he asked him to resign. The New York governor's official website includes a section on how the office plans to address sexual harassment in the workplace. Hopefully it is being enforced.
A forthcoming memoir by Obama confidant Ben Rhodes includes the startling admission that the 44th president’s inner circle should have seen Hillary Clinton’s 2016 loss coming – because President Trump was essentially using the Obama playbook to discredit her. The New York Times published excerpts of the book, "The World As It Is," which describes outgoing President Barack Obama’s shock and disbelief at Trump’s election victory. But Rhodes also seems to acknowledge that Trump used some of the same lines of attack employed by Obama during the hard-fought 2008 presidential primary against Clinton – minus what Rhodes describes as the “racism and misogyny.” “I couldn’t shake the feeling that I should have seen it coming,” Rhodes writes in the book. “Because when you distilled it, stripped out the racism and misogyny, we’d run against Hillary eight years ago with the same message Trump had used: She’s part of a corrupt establishment that can’t be trusted to bring change.” Obama ran in 2008 as the “change” candidate, rallying an enthusiastic base to defeat Clinton in the primary and later GOP nominee John McCain. In 2016 as in 2008, Clinton entered the race as the establishment favorite, only to be sidelined by an insurgent political newcomer. Despite that admission by Rhodes, the book describes how Obama was distraught at the outcome. “What if we were wrong?” Obama reportedly asked aides, as he struggled to come to terms with Clinton's defeat. Obama remained alternately optimistic and dejected, according to Rhodes, who has been feted as an aspiring novelist-turned national security wunderkind. “Sometimes I wonder whether I was 10 or 20 years too early,” Obama told aides, according to the memoir. “Maybe we pushed too far. ... Maybe people just want to fall back into their tribe.” Rhodes was promoted from presidential speechwriter to deputy national security adviser under Obama. He held that post during the raid that killed Usama bin Laden, as well as the U.S. intervention in Libya and the signing of the Iran nuclear deal. The possibility that Trump could unravel that legacy apparently weighed on Obama, Rhodes writes. FMR OBAMA OFFICIALS FORM ANTI-TRUMP THINK TANK “I feel like Michael Corleone," Obama reportedly said, referencing "The Godfather" character as he prepared to hand over the White House to Trump. "I almost got out.” According to Rhodes, he and Obama were not aware that the FBI had begun an investigation into the Trump campaign's dealings with Russia until after the election. The book also touches on some foreign-policy melodrama as Obama made his exit from the world stage, amid a shifting geopolitical climate that included Brexit and rising disenchantment with globalism. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany had a "single tear in her eye" when she and Obama parted for the last time, and Obama noted that "she's all alone" to defend his liberal principles, according to Rhodes. BEN RHODES JOKES ABOUT GOP LEADERS' 'OBITS' In footage from an HBO documentary recording on election night in 2016, Rhodes himself was seen sitting alone outside on a bench, haltingly repeating that the situation was difficult to "process."
LeBron James will get some help Thursday night in Game 1 of the NBA Finals against the Golden State Warriors. The Cleveland Cavaliers announced that Kevin Love has cleared the league’s concussion protocol and will be able to play. STATUS UPDATE: @kevinlove has completed the NBA’s Concussion Return to Play Program and will be available to play tonight in #NBAFinals Game 1.https://t.co/Mi7Xicsh8k — Cleveland Cavaliers (@cavs) May 31, 2018 The All-Star forward was injured in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Finals when he bumped heads with the Celtics’ Jayson Tatum in the first quarter. Kevin Love went off to the locker room after knocking heads with Jayson Tatum pic.twitter.com/HYd59F3VSo — Def Pen Hoops (@DefPenHoops) May 26, 2018 TRENDING: Browns player promises big gift to fans if Cavs win NBA Finals Love left the game and didn’t return, but the Cavaliers went on to win 109-99. His replacement, Jeff Green, had 14 points in 31 minutes. In Game 7, Green had 19 points and eight rebounds as Cleveland won without Love again, beating Boston 87-79 to advance to a fourth straight NBA Finals. Despite those two victories, the Cavs are plus-2.6 with Love on the floor and minus-0.9 without him this postseason, per NBA.com. Fans had mixed reactions to news of his return. My prayers have been answered. 🙏🏼 — Quincy Foster (@TheWavvyBoy) May 31, 2018 I'm glad you're back, @kevinlove! Bring all your grit and hustle tonight, man! #WhateverItTakes — Joe Cool (@JoeCool4TWD) May 31, 2018 Im not really sure if this a good thing or a bad tbh. If he plays like he has been so far this postseason, he needs to go back to not playing. — Brennan (@DisLikedObject) May 31, 2018 Bad news. Defensively Love has struggled with the dubs athleticism. Cavs won two straight games (6&7) in east finals because they were consistently a athletic defensive team without Love in the lineup. — Perry Shelton Jr (@PrinceAbneyFay) May 31, 2018 Love was the team’s second-leading scorer (17.6 points per game) and top rebounder (9.3 per game) during the regular season, although his scoring has been down in the playoffs. He has averaged 13.9 points in the postseason, shooting just 38.8 percent from the field and 34.6 percent on 3-pointers — well below his career averages. Do you think the Cavaliers will upset the Warriors in Game 1? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Wildcard updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. RELATED: 10 Fast Facts About the NBA Finals Cleveland will need him to step up in the NBA Finals. The Cavs are big underdogs against a powerful Warriors team that beat them in five games last year. As of Wednesday, Golden State was favored by 12 points in Game 1, which is the largest point spread in a Finals game since 1991, according to ESPN. Cleveland opened as a plus-650 underdog in the series — the biggest number since 2001, when the Lakers played the Nets. The Cavs were plus-300 in last year’s Finals. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Japan’s Asahi Shimbun reported Wednesday that geopolitical experts are trying to guess the meaning of tears shed by North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un in a video the newspaper claims was shown to local party leaders. Kim purportedly wept because he was frustrated with the slow pace of economic reforms in his country. If the tears were sincere, they would indicate a certain degree of confusion on Kim’s part about how both “communism” and “dictatorship” work. If he wants fast-paced economic reform, he should try something other than communism. Perhaps as a baby step, he might consider socialism, where the leadership is happy but everybody else weeps over the slow pace of economic reforms. Asahi Shimbun sees the video as an effort by North Korea’s propaganda machine to rebrand the leadership and guilt-trip local party leaders into working harder because they are letting the young despot down and breaking his heart: According to a defector to South Korea who once served North Korea’s ruling Workers’ Party of Korea, this different and rarely seen side of Kim Jong Un featured in a documentary to educate party officials who lead the lowest rungs of the leadership apparatus or state-run enterprises. The video shows Kim Jong Un standing on an unspecified stretch of coastline gazing toward the horizon as tears trickle down his cheek. A narrator explains that the North Korean leader is distraught over his inability to radically overhaul the economy to make the reclusive country a vibrant power. The defector learned about the video from a contact who remains in North Korea. According to the defector, the video surfaced from around April and was shown to those in high-ranking positions at local branches of the Workers’ Party or state-run companies. Asahi Shimbun did not publish the video. The defector also suggested the video could be Kim’s way of preparing party leadership for the outcome of his summit with U.S. President Donald Trump by laying the groundwork for Kim to make significant policy changes – especially the kind of changes that could open North Korea’s economy to the Western world via South Korea – without looking as if he was strongarmed into making concessions by the Americans. That will truly be a tough sell, given that North Korea’s demented “Juche” ideology strongly emphasizes national independence and self-reliance. “The video may be intended to prepare the nation for the day that will mark a sea change in the country’s fundamental outlook and way of dealing with the rest of the world,” Asahi Shimbun speculated. North Korea is no stranger to using tears in state propaganda. Business Insider explained in January that Kim is always surrounded by weepy-eyed citizens in publicity photos because members of the ruling family are presented as demigods, their very presence powerful enough to move loyal North Koreans to tears. Also, knowing that such emotional displays are expected of them, North Koreans instinctively try to outdo each other with operatic displays of grief and joy to curry favor with the regime, especially during events like the funeral for Kim’s father Kim Jong-il in 2011. Nobody wants to be seen as less than profoundly moved at a moment like that. A recent BBC profile of Kim Jong-un speculated that he might actually be more emotional and insecure than his father and grandfather were, although he also remains a brutal tyrant willing to blow his uncle to bloody shreds and murder his half-brother with nerve agents if that’s what it takes to maintain power. The article includes some speculation that Kim broke under the stress of his weird upbringing, the constant pressure to become the steely-eyed heir to his father’s throne, the brutal purges necessary to keep him in power after Kim Jong-il died, and endless paranoia over coup attempts. Ironically, the BBC notes that Kim’s murdered brother Kim Jong-nam was removed from the line of succession and ultimately exiled from North Korea because he was frustrated with the slow pace of economic reforms, just as Kim Jong-un is now alleged to be. Kim Jong-nam tried to convince Kim Jong-il to address the problem by importing some Chinese economic ideas, which is exactly the course Beijing wants Kim Jong-un to take now.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Todd Starnes spoke with Jeff Stein, the News & Program Director for News-Talk 1540 KXEL in Iowa, about why rallies like the one President trump held in Tennessee was so successful and why the President's message resonates with the heartland of America. "The President is doing what he said he would do and they like that. That is new for a politician. They like somebody who is taking charge, they may not like everything he's doing, but they like the style, and it is a sharp contrast. So the rumors of his demise are greatly exaggerated shall we say when you talk to actual voters," Stein said. Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America! Listen to the whole interview here: Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."
The original Pacific Rim arrived in theaters five years ago. Although I wasn’t a fan of the feature (you can check out my review here), I admired the unique visuals that director Guillermo del Toro brought to the story. The film’s sequel Pacific Rim: Uprising offers some of the same visual concepts but lacks in most other areas. John Boyega stars in this follow-up as Jake Pentecost, the son of the original’s Stacker Pentecost (Idris Elba). Ten years have passed since the aliens were defeated and the breach into the alternate dimension was closed. Now, people like Jake are living near daily reminders of the war between the human-created robots (known as Jaegers) and the alien army. “Some of us live better in a broken world,” Jake says. After nearly getting apprehended by authorities, Jake teams up with a young girl named Amara (Cailee Spaeny). When the duo are caught, they are enlisted by the military in time to witness a rogue Jaeger emerging from the ocean and causing massive destruction. The opening story merely serves to set up a new war between the machines. Little attention is paid to the characters themselves. In her unit, Amara’s fellow officers disrespect her while Jake teams up with his old ally Nate Lambert (Scott Eastwood). The paths of these characters is a very traditional one with Jake and Amara being set up as the obvious underdogs. Mid-way through the story, the villain’s plans come to the forefront and much of the film’s latter half features loud and boisterous fight sequences between rivaling Jaegers. The uniqueness of the original has lost its luster in this feature that never truly stands on its own. The relationships, for one, feel very familiar and stereotypical and it’s obvious early on how these important relationships will change. It’s inevitable that Amara will earn the respect of her comrades while Jake and Nate will fight together once more after Nate has chastised his former colleague for wasting his potential. Additionally, the dialogue suffers from a reliance on generic pronouncements. When one character talks about an idea that could defeat the villains “in theory,” another one asks “What does that mean: ‘in theory?’” The first character responds overdramatically with “Today, that means yes.” Even the evil pronouncements are one-note. “I’m ending the world,” the villain says in one scene without nuance or explanation. When the world is at stake, depth seems to be the first victim. Aside from the original’s visual effects, that movie also offered a solid sense of humor provided by Charlie Day in a supporting role. The comedian returns to the story here but sadly, his character no longer provides that comic sensibility as the plot unfolds. Even though I wasn’t a fan of the original, I still found some solid qualities to it. This sequel sadly lacks those. Although the cast seems game for the film (and does a solid job presenting their characters), there’s not much to like about this uprising. The sequel, which clocks in with a running time of one hour and 51 minutes, is thankfully shorter than the original but unfortunately, it lives in the shadow of its predecessor. Grade: C- For more film and television coverage, follow me on Twitter here.
Thursday in Michigan at the Mackinac Policy Conference, former House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) said there was “no Republican Party” in the era of President Donald Trump. Boehner said, “There is no Republican Party. There’s a Trump party. Republican Party is kinda taking a nap somewhere.” He continued, “Well, you know, Donald Trump, who I know well, was one of my supporters, when I was speaker if I was having a rough week, Trump would call me, pat me on the back, cheer me up, played a lot of golf together. But president? Really? I never quite saw this.” He added, “Hillary Clinton thought she was going to win. Donald Trump thought he was going to lose. I think Donald Trump promised Melania that he would not win. She didn’t have to worry about ever living in the White House. It’s probably why she doesn’t look real happy every day. But, well, maybe one reason.” Boehner complimented the president on regulatory reform and his success in foreign policy, especially with North Korea. Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN
White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders responded to a flurry of questions from reporters who asked for the president’s reaction to the show Roseanne getting canceled on Tuesday. “That’s not what the president is looking at. That’s not what’s he’s spending his time on,” she told reporters on Air Force One on Tuesday. “I think we have a lot bigger things going on in the country right now.” Sanders said the president was more concerned with the ongoing plans for the possible summit with Kim Jong-un and ongoing trade negotiations with China. Barr’s reboot of her show Roseanne featuring working-class values earned her admiration from Trump supporters, especially after she voiced unapologetic support for President Trump. Trump personally phoned Barr in March to congratulate her for her sky-high ratings after the smash hit debut surprised industry analysts. ABC canceled Barr’s show on Tuesday, hours after she described senior adviser to former President Obama Valerie Jarrett as if the “Muslim Brotherhood & Planet of the Apes had a baby” on Twitter.
Forget fast and furious, a dog lover in England has built a fast and furry car. Limo company owner Justin Scrutton needed a beater to take his pooches to the park in, so he bought an old Volkswagen Golf for $250 and spent about the same customizing it to make them feel right at home, by covering it in teddy bear fur. Scrutton used spray-on glue to attach the material to every inch of the car’s body, and even turned the antenna into a tail. He told SWNS that he “was trying to sleep one night and for some crazy reason I thought ‘why not?’” “It was just a bit of fun - that’s my attitude to life, have a laugh when you can.” ARE YOU FOLLOWING FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK YET? Scrutton said his dogs Lola and Cenzo appear to like it, that he always spots children pointing at it and others taking videos, which can be an issue sometimes. “It’s actually quite unnerving when they drive right up behind you to get the best picture,” Scrutton said. Nevertheless, he plans to make the car even more conspicuous in the future by adding a pair of big, floppy ears.
Becca Kufrin is ready to do the damn thing. After being dumped on-camera by then-fiancé Arie Luyendyk Jr. on “The Bachelor” earlier this year, the Minnesota-bred publicist is now in the driver’s seat, wishful for her own happy ending as the “Bachelorette.” see also ‘Bachelor’ blindsides fiancée in controversial finale Warning: Spoilers ahead “The hardest breakups are the breakups you... “After Arie ended things with me, I went back to Minnesota, and I didn’t really know what to do,” Becca, 28, recalls on Monday’s season premiere. “Just a few months ago I was engaged, everything that I envisioned for the future was switched and changed up. I mean I was completely blindsided.” With 28 gents vying for her affection, Becca immediately finds herself drawn to several suitors, including Colorado sales rep Blake, 28. “Blake makes me feel very hopeful,” Becca gushes. “He’s making such an impression on me.” Becca also goes fishing poolside with Reno, Nevada, native Garrett, 29. “I grew up fishing and hunting with my dad, knowing Garrett does that, he would fit in so well,” Becca says. “I really like Garrett.” But before Becca can hand out the coveted first-impression rose, potential duds are sniffed out among the guys, as it’s suspected some men are not there for the right reasons. Confronting Jake, 29, a Minneapolis-based marketing consultant, Becca questions his true motives, as they’ve met in the past back home in Minnesota. “Jake has never shown any interest in me up until now,” Becca explains. “We’ve hung out a couple of times, there was never really any interest.” Despite the option of a new beginning, Becca opts to surge forward without Jake in the picture. “I would constantly question your intentions here, and I so appreciate you coming here,” Becca says before telling Jake goodbye. Already feeling connections forming, Becca grabs Garrett to give him the first rose of the night. “You have been so wonderful the entire night. You made me feel so comfortable. I would love to give you the first-impression rose,” Becca gleams. As the cocktail party comes to an end, the first rose ceremony of the season begins. “Seeing the roses on the table and realizing six of us are going home is really scary,” Blake says, before scoring a rose. Becca ultimately gifts the final flower of the evening to Chris R., who waved a red flag earlier in the night against a fellow contestant. “I am so hopeful looking at each and every one of you,” Becca tells her remaining suitors. “Here is to the beginning of this amazing, crazy love story.”
A creative director for the fashion company that owns Stuart Weitzman and Coach says his boss repeatedly groped him and made lewd remarks including commenting on his penis size, according to a new sexual harassment lawsuit. Thomas Gibb is the vice president of product development for the shoe brand Stuart Weitzman. Beginning last year the company’s creative director Giovanni Morelli “subjected him to a constant barrage of sexual harassment,” according to Gibb’s Manhattan Supreme Court suit. “For instance, but only by way of example, on March 7, 2018, Mr. Gibb took his first of several trips to Spain to work with Stuart Weitzman’s Design Team, including Mr. Morelli,” the suit says. “Upon Mr. Morelli’s arrival in Spain the following day, he immediately began engaging in sexually harassing conduct in front of the entirety of the Spain ‘Shoes By Stuart’ office, including constantly touching Mr. Gibb’s body and the back of his legs and repeatedly asking him, ‘How is your d​–k?’ and ‘Is there any way you would ever consider not being straight?'” the suit says. “Mr. Morelli’s touching of Mr. Gibb was unwelcomed, offensive and inappropriate and his comments made Mr. Gibb extremely uncomfortable,” according to court papers. In another instance just this past March during a prototype fitting, Morelli asked Gibb for his European shoe size. “When Mr. Gibb stated that he wore a size 45 shoe, Mr. Morelli responded, ‘Wow you must have a huge d​–k – probably 25 centimeters,'” the suit says. “Mr. Morelli proceeded to say, ‘You are so straight though, it’s so sad,'” according to court papers. “Around this time, Mr. Morelli also began to refer to Mr. Gibb as ‘Tommy Straight,’ a nickname that Mr. Morelli continued to use throughout the duration of his tenure at Tapestry,” the suit says. Morelli was eventually allowed to resign after Gibb complained to HR and threatened legal action, but he’s still suing for unspecified damages. A Tapestry spokeswoman said, “While we historically have not commented on pending litigation, we can confirm that the Wigdor firm, representing Mr. Gibb, wrote to our general counsel on May 15, 2018. On that date, the company commenced an investigation which ultimately resulted in the announcement on May 21, 2018, regarding the resignation of Giovanni Morelli.” Morelli did not immediately return a call for comment.
Despite being the daughter of one of the world's most famous musicians, Allie Colleen says she doesn't know what it's like to be raised by a "celebrity." Colleen is the daughter of Garth Brooks and his first wife Sandy Mahl. The 21-year-old was also raised by her "bonus mom" and Brooks' wife of more than a decade, Trisha Yearwood. But when Colleen and her sisters, Taylor and August, were growing up, all three of their parents decided to put their careers on hold to allow them to grow up out of the spotlight, she told the Children of Song podcast. "My parents were phenomenal in the way that they shut down everything to raise us," the budding singer told the podcast. "We came home, we did our homework, we played outside, we got disciplined. We were rowdy kids." A post shared by Allie Colleen (@alliecolleenmusic) on Nov 16, 2017 at 4:54pm PST Colleen told the podcast she did get to "dress up and go out and do something really cool" with her dad once in a while, but most of the time he was just dad. "I don't know what it's like to have celebrity parents. My dad was there every night," she said of her childhood. Another way Brooks ensured his kids would have a normal childhood was to make sure the girls would see both him and his ex every day despite their divorce in 2000. "We had probably the greatest system anyone ever had," she said. "From the age of 5 or 6 until I moved out of the house, we switched every day at 6 o'clock because my parents wanted us to see both parents every day." The final thing Brooks did for his daughter made her promise not to pursue a career in the music industry until after she got her college degree. And now that Colleen has her diploma in hand, she's free to venture into the family business. Listen to Allie Colleen's entire Children of Song episode here. You can download or stream the podcast from the Children of Song homepage or become a subscriber on Apple Podcasts, TuneIn, Google Play or Stitcher.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. A once-upon-a-time voice for journalistic respectability, the Columbia Journalism Review, has consigned to the well-known hot place the notion that respectability entails letting voters rather than reporters decide whether a president is Abe Lincoln or a dirty lying rat. The Review leans to the latter conclusion. The Review's daily and (to me) always-absorbing look at media goings-on raises the question of how to talk about, well, a lying rat of a president: a distinction most media institutions have awarded Donald Trump. The Review highlights The New York Times' efforts to call Trump a liar without actually calling him one. "Trump Falsely Says Times Made Up Source in Report on Korea Summit Meeting." That would be just one example of journalistic efforts to downplay the president's commitment, such as it is, to the Truth that Makes You Free. The Journalism Review quotes Times White House reporter Maggie Haberman's disparaging Tweet the other day: "Trump told two demonstrable falsehoods this AM." The Review says "the argument consumed political media conversations on Twitter for much of the weekend." Some Twitterists thought Haberman's charge a little mild. On May 28 came the Times' charge that Trump "uses conspiracy theories to erode trust." Here we go again, trying, as a society, as a culture, to make heads or tails of a president who defies efforts to categorize him. Over the uproar concerning his gift for veracity or falsehood, alarm bells should sound. The anti-Trump media are nuts if they think they're improving their status in 21st century life. They're undermining it further: deepening national disarray by abandoning standards more necessary than ever before in public life. May it please the court, reporters and editors have neither right nor duty to show up the president as a liar. It's lousy journalism to try. But oh, such modern journalism! Which is the problem. Look: The media are our eyes and ears. Our brains they aren't, though our media clearly suppose the opposite. Which supposition makes them try to lead mere viewers and readers by the nose: telling them what to think. Good luck with that! "Speaking truth to power" -- an old Quaker ideal beloved of modern "Thought Leaders" -- involves telling Trump voters they laid an egg. What a non-fruitful mode of argumentation and discussion. The president's grasp of facts is his own, certainly. But: 1) He's not always wrong, even when being obnoxious; and 2) A statement out of line with the truth doesn't suggest the need to go at him, as per the Times, with eyes bulging; rather, it demands bringing to view, without indignation or contempt, asseverations and facts that undermine the Trumpian account. Only you set such asseverations and facts side by side with his own: quoting responsible, preferably neutral, or neutral-ish, sources. You let the White House answer those sources. Then you stand back and let the people make up their own minds! Strange conceit, that -- trusting votes and consumers of news to make up their minds without pointed assistance from the media. For which, if it doesn't work out, maybe we need to examine the U.S. education system with more alarm. And maybe also the lack of trust that previous media forays against previous presidents have engendered. Media fury at one Donald Trump is sowing worrisome consequences for the future. The lying so-and-so, as most of the media view him, is going to be gone one day: possibly with the media's invaluable assistance. And will there linger, save in progressive circles, any public inclination to believe, or even listen to, a word the anti-Trump press says about anything, including the weather? A certain... call it mutual trust, or sense of shared conviction, lies at the foundation of any free society. I cannot see the anti-Trump media adding to our depleted storehouse of trust. I see, indeed, the media's angry judgmental tendencies -- its love of crying, "Liar!" -- making things far angrier, far more divisive, than they are now. And what we have right now isn't great. Just subscribe (as I do) to the Times. And judge.
PARIS (AP) — The Latest from the French Open (all times local): ___ 9:30 p.m. Serena Williams' next opponent at the French Open will be 11th-seeded Julia Goerges. The German player reached the third round at Roland Garros for the fourth time with a 7-5, 7-6 (5) win over Alison Van Uytvanck in the final match on Thursday's program. Williams has a 2-0 record against Goerges, winning both matches in straight sets. ___ 9:15 p.m. Serena Williams trailed by a set and a break at the French Open before recalibrating her shots, erasing that deficit and beating 17th-seeded Ashleigh Barty of Australia 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 to reach the third round. Williams had all sorts of trouble in the opening set, making 12 unforced errors and only three winners. But she began putting the ball right where she wanted early in the second set, accompanying nearly every point she won with a celebratory yell and fist pump. It took about 15 minutes for Williams to take four games in a row and control of that set. Williams broke to lead 2-1 in the third, held for 3-1, and was on her way at Court Philippe Chatrier. The 36-year-old American is playing in her first Grand Slam tournament in 16 months — and first since giving birth to a daughter about nine months ago. Williams has won three of her 23 Grand Slam singles titles at Roland Garros. ___ 8:30 p.m. Serena Williams has turned the match around and pushed Ashleigh Barty to a third set in the French Open's second round. Williams won the second set 6-3 after dropping the first by the same score. Against the 17th-seeded Barty, Williams fell behind by a break at 1-0 in the second, but then took four consecutive games to get back into the match. ___ 8 p.m. Serena Williams has dropped the first set of her second-round match against 17th-seeded Ashleigh Barty of Australia by a 6-3 score. Barty also edged ahead in the second set by breaking Williams in the first game. ___ 7:10 p.m. The sleek black catsuit Serena Williams has been sporting at the French Open has won over another of her peers on the woman's tour: Andrea Petkovic. The German said she loves it so much she might copy it. But she thinks New York might be "the only city where you can actually pull it off on the street." Williams said the suit made her feel like a superhero. She suggested that wearing it could inspire other women who, like her, had difficult recoveries from pregnancy. Petkovic said that because Williams is "a very strong female figure, very inspirational," she rubs some critics up the wrong way. "They're afraid of strong females," Petkovic said. Caroline Wozniacki is another player who has spoken favorably about the suit. ___ 6 p.m. Rafael Nadal has completed another straight-set win to reach the third round of the French Open. Nadal is once again the big favorite in Paris following a tremendous clay-court season, and the 10-time champion lived up to the status by easily dispatching Guido Pella of Argentina 6-2, 6-1, 6-1 on Court Suzanne Lenglen. Nadal hasn't lost a set at the French Open since 2015, when he was beaten in the quarterfinals by Novak Djokovic. In 2016, he withdrew with an injured left wrist after a pair of easy victories, then claimed every set he played last year en route to the trophy. Against Pella, the top-ranked Spaniard saved all four break points he faced and hit 37 winners. He will be up against Richard Gasquet of France in the next round. ___ 5:25 p.m. Despite playing on consecutive days, top-seeded Simona Halep showed no signs of fatigue in beating wild-card entry Taylor Townsend 6-3, 6-1 to reach the third round of the French Open. The Romanian broke the 72nd-ranked American in the first game and jumped to a 5-1 lead. Townsend dug deep in the eighth game, with Halep serving for the set, clawing back a break to slow the progress of last year's runner-up. Halep served out the last game to love, breaking into a smile after a winning volley at the net that brought up three match points. Halep said in her post-match interview that she struggled initially against the left-hander's shots with topspin. But the score didn't show it. Her next opponent, Andrea Petkovic of Germany, beat Bethanie Mattek-Sands 6-0, 7-6 (5) to reach the third round. ___ 4:55 p.m. The new court 18 introduced at Roland Garros this year is getting praised by players at the French Open. The court, which is partly sunken into the ground, can hold as many as 2,200 spectators, making it the stadium's fourth largest. French Open organizers have ensured it became instantly popular with the fans by scheduling matches involving big names on it. After opening her Roland Garros campaign on the 18, reigning U.S. Open champion Sloane Stephens said the new arena is "beautiful" and "super-intimate." Dominic Thiem has also taste the venue, and he was not disappointed. "Always full because there are always great matches there," the seventh-seeded Thiem said after reaching the third round with a 6-2, 2-6, 6-4, 6-4 win over Stefanos Tsitsipas. "People really want to be there. I prefer to play on a full center court with, I don't know, 2,000, 2,500 people like court 18 than in front of 7,000 on Chatrier, because it feels kind of empty, and the atmosphere was amazing on court 18, so I prefer to play there," Thiem said. ___ 4:40 p.m. Two-time champion Maria Sharapova improved to 13-0 in second-round matches at the French Open by beating 50th-ranked Donna Vekic of Croatia 7-5, 6-4. It took Sharapova a little bit to close things out. She led 5-2 in the second set, then served for the win at 5-3, but was broken when she sailed an off-balance forehand wide. She broke right back to end it, though, converting her fifth match point with a forehand return winner. Sharapova is competing at Roland Garros for the first time since 2015. She missed the clay-court Grand Slam tournament in 2016 while serving a doping suspension, then was denied a wild-card entry by the French tennis federation last year, when her ranking was too low to earn automatic entry. The 31-year-old Russian won the title in 2012 and 2014, part of her career Grand Slam. She is seeded 28th this year. Next for Sharapova is a matchup against sixth-seeded Karolina Pliskova, the runner-up at the 2016 U.S. Open and a semifinalist in Paris a year ago. Pliskova's twin sister lost to Serena Williams in the first round this week. Pliskova reached the third round with a 3-6, 6-4, 6-1 victory over 2015 French Open runner-up Lucie Safarova. ___ 3:45 p.m. Richard Gasquet advanced to the third round of the French Open for the eighth straight year by defeating Malek Jaziri 6-2, 3-6, 6-3, 6-0. The 27th-seeded Gasquet was joined in the third round by fellow Frenchman Lucas Pouille, who advanced past Cameron Norrie 6-2, 6-4, 5-7, 7-6 (3) over two days after their match was stopped by darkness on Wednesday. At No. 16, Pouille is the highest-ranked Frenchman in the main draw. It has been 35 years since a player from the host nation lifted the men's trophy in Paris. ___ 3 p.m. Garbine Muguruza is in a hurry on and off court at the French Open. Both of her wins have been in straight sets. And she visited the vast Louvre Museum in only an hour. "I try to empty my mind when I have a free day or in the afternoon, and I went to the Louvre for a really express visit," the 2016 champion said after her 6-4, 6-3 victory over Fiona Ferro in the second round Thursday. "There were a lot of people. It was hot. And I couldn't stay there for six hours. So I visited the museum in just one hour." No wonder the Mona Lisa, the Louvre's most famous resident, looked bemused. ___ 2:40 p.m. Canadian teen Denis Shapovalov's French Open debut is over after a mistake-filled loss to Maximilian Marterer in the second round. The 70th-ranked Marterer, also appearing in his first main draw at Roland Garros, beat the 24th-seeded Shapovalov 5-7, 7-6 (4), 7-5, 6-4. Shapovalov had more double-faults, 11, than aces, six, and far more unforced errors overall, 82, than winners, 52. Shapovalov, who is 19, had never been seeded at a Grand Slam tournament before. ___ 2:25 p.m. Third-seeded Marin Cilic overcame a concentration lapse to advance to the third round of the French Open with a 6-2, 6-2, 6-7 (3), 7-5 victory over Polish qualifier Hubert Hurkacz. The Croatian, who won the U.S. Open in 2014, was cruising until the third set, when Hurkacz broke him for the only time in the match. Cilic, a quarterfinalist last year at Roland Garros, will next play 46th-ranked Steve Johnson of the United States. ___ 1:30 p.m. Samantha Stosur, a Roland Garros finalist in 2010, eliminated 30th-seeded Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova 6-2, 7-6 (1) in the second round of the French Open. Stosur was also a semifinalist in 2009, 2012 and 2016. Only once, in 11 attempts, has Pavlyuchenkova reached the second week at Roland Garros, making the quarterfinals in 2011. Stosur will next face Garbine Muguruza, the 2016 champion. ___ 12:40 p.m. Garbine Muguruza is through to the third round of the French Open with a 6-4, 6-3 victory over French wild-card entry Fiona Ferro. As she did in her first-round match against Svetlana Kuznetsova, the 2016 champion again impressed with her ease of movement around the court. Muguruza and Ferro exchanged breaks of serve at the start of the second set. But the third-seeded Spaniard broke her 257th-ranked opponent again in the seventh game to take the lead and closed out the win with her first match point on Ferro's serve two games later. ___ 11:30 a.m. Play is underway at Roland Garros, with top-ranked Rafael Nadal and three-time champion Serena Williams both scheduled to compete in the second round at the French Open. Garbine Muguruza, the 2016 women's champion, is already on court, playing French wild-card entry Fiona Ferro for a spot in the third round. Nadal, chasing a record-extending 11th men's title, will play Guido Pella in the second round. After a straight-set win in her first Grand Slam match following maternity leave, Williams will face a tougher test against 17th-seeded Ash Barty. Two-time champion Maria Sharapova is also in action later against Donna Vekic. The skies are sunny, with no sign of possible storms forecast for the afternoon. ___ More AP tennis coverage: https://www.apnews.com/tag/apf-Tennis
Los Angeles, CA - Ernie Found faced more tragedy in two weeks than many people do in a lifetime. His daughter, Caroline Found, died in a tragic moped accident when she was just 17. His wife Ellyn, who was suffering from pancreatic cancer, passed just over a week later. Who and what finally convinced him to allow Hollywood to make a movie about it? It was "a little bit of who and what," he shared with Townhall following a press screening of The Miracle Season in Los Angeles. "Some time after the movie people came by, I said, 'Thank you, but now's not the time.'" Eventually, the "what" became trust and the "who" became screenwriter David Aaron Cohen. LD Entertainment never gave up on Ernie, keeping in touch for the next year. Cohen, a father of six, finally met with him. "He made it very clear to me he understood the reservations and concerns," Found said. "He kept saying, 'I will do all within my power to tell the story and I'm not out to Hollywoodize it.'" Director Sean McNamara then entered the picture, adopting the same amount of sensitivity necessary to make Found comfortable enough to let the filmmakers tell the story. At first "petrified" to meet Ernie, McNamara was comforted by the fact he had already made Soul Surfer, which depicted surfer Bethany Hamilton's terrifying run in with a shark. She lost an arm in the accident, but, as the film portrays, she prevailed despite her new handicap. McNamara knew that Caroline's story would be similarly compelling to a mass audience and may help some people heal from tragedy. "I slowly talked myself into it," the director told Townhall. Then, he talked Ernie into it. He explained to the father that the film is to "honor" his daughter, not exploit her. How could he taint such a joyful soul? "We want to show that to the world," he said. What resulted is The Miracle Season, starring Danika Yarosh as Caroline, Oscar winners Helen Hunt and William Hurt as Caroline's volleyball coach and father, and Erin Moriarty as her teammate and best friend. Found sat down with Townhall to share what was so special about his late wife and daughter. "We liked to joke quite a bit," he said of Caroline. "We liked to make each other smile." In fact, Caroline liked to make everyone smile. As captain of her high school volleyball team, she was a natural leader, a joyous spirit who made friends with everyone she met. As is depicted in the film, when she passed, her teammates were inconsolable. But, as time went on and each volleyball practice became a bit more bearable, they started to "Live Like Line." It's a motto in Iowa that has lasted to today. Students still proudly wear their "Live Like Line" T-shirts and some Miracle Season cast members even embraced the motto on the red carpet for the film's premiere in Iowa. Many have become familiar with "Live Like Line," but there is another motto Mr. Found would like you to know: "Love Like Ellyn." Most all of Caroline's spirit and love of others and welcoming of others is through her mother, he shared. Caroline was a teenager and liked to bend the rules, but "she learned how to love through Ellyn because Ellyn understood love." Ellyn's uncanny ability to love was perhaps displayed no more clearly than when she somehow found the strength to attend her daughter's wake. "The best we could hope for was that she'd be in a wheelchair" to and from the venue, Mr. Found recalled. "At the end of the services she stood up and said I'm going to walk out of here and she did. She held her head high, she smiled, she reached out to touch the people, she thanked them for being there. It was probably the most inspirational thing I've ever witnessed." Ernie barely held the tears at bay recalling the scene. The father was happy to share that he still keeps in touch with Caroline's teammates "a couple times a week" and that Iowa City West still remembers Caroline in several ways. The Young Life Youth Group that she participated in is still quite strong. Additionally, at the end of each sporting season, "Live Like Line" awards are given to West High athletes. "Her spirit still lives strongly." Danika Yarosh, the actress who plays Caroline in the film, hoped she could maintain that spirit. In a separate conversation with Yarosh, she gushed about how "lovely" it was getting to know him, despite her initial reservations. "He's such a teddy bear," she said. "I was honestly so nervous to meet him. I didn't know if he would approve because it is so sensitive. I was so nervous about playing her accidentally disrespectful or crossing a line." That all changed upon their introduction. "The first time I met him, I'm not sure there were any words that were exchanged. I just remember him enveloping me in his arms." Not only did he reassure her that he approved of the project and her starring role in it, but he presented her with Caroline's senior photo to carry with her during filming and she keeps it in her bag wherever she goes. Ernie also gave her "an enormous amount of credit" for coming to Iowa City before the premiere. "She came here by herself knowing a handful at most of the people, came to a town she's never been in. She just wanted to come and experience Iowa City and be a part of it. I can't credit her for having the guts to do it and doggone it where all this red carpet stuff around and Danika shows up with her 'Live Like Line' shirt on. She's a special young woman." It's plain that Ernie was comfortable with the cast and largely pleased with how true to life The Miracle Season was. There is one thing, however, that Ernie admits was "Hollywoodized." In the film, Ernie finds himself lashing out at God and questioning his faith. At the height of his grief, he rejects an invitation from his friend to go to church, noting that it hasn't done much for him lately. "That was a little bit of Hollywood," the real Ernie admitted. It was "the creation of conflict." "I never questioned God and the powers to be," he explained. "That's not my place to do so. I never felt anger. I would ask why, but trying to seek the answers would become more confusing." He understood the purpose of the scene in the film, however. "As long as it came back around to where it needed to be," he was okay with it. After all, his faith a huge part of his recovery, he explained in a feature for the film. McNamara was in awe of Ernie's strength the more he got to know him. "This was a scary one to make," the director admitted. With three kids of his own, he "doesn't think he could even get up in the morning" if something happened to one of them. Not only did Ernie get up, he courageously remained standing and shared his story with the world. To learn more about the Founds, You can watch the moving HBO special that aired in 2012. The Miracle Season is in theaters this Friday. In case you're wondering where the title came from, it's an homage to the impossible feat Caroline's teammates pulled off following the death of their star player. Somehow, they managed to defend their state championship title.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Want each new episode of this podcast as soon as it's out? SUBSCRIBE: CLICK HERE! Shannon Bream, host of FOX News @ Night on the FOX News Channel returns with new "Livin' The Bream" podcast. This week, Shannon chats with Kyle Mann, Editor-in-Chief of The Babylon Bee, co-author of "How to Be a Perfect Christian". Listen to the latest "Livin' The Bream": Follow Shannon on Twitter: @ShannonBream and on Facebook: ShannonBreamTV
Now that Dick's Sporting Good has alienated Second Amendment supporters, gun stores across the nation are using the sporting goods' store's mistakes to promote their businesses. Boyert Shooting Center in Katy, Texas made fun of Dick's with their latest sign: Awesome gun store sign in Katy, Texas! pic.twitter.com/APbDs3qkh0 — Beth Baumann (@eb454) May 26, 2018 "It was meant to have people react to it and hopefully most understand that we are referring to the company and not an individual. We have had a lot of people come in and tell us they love the sign," Program Director Travis Clark told The Houston Chronicle. According to Clark, the response has been fairly positive. Boyert also decided to offer a discount in honor of Springfield's decision to cut ties with the sporting goods company. They held a one-day sale From their website: SPRINGFIELD ARMORY "DONE WITH DICK'S" BLOWOUT SALE SAVE THE DATE! MEMBERS: 05/11/18 - 05/13/18 PUBLIC: 05/12/18 - 05/13/18 In honor of Springfield Armory cutting off DICK’S from selling their products due to DICK’S hiring of anti-2nd Amendment Lobbyists, we will be featuring a Springfield Armory “DONE WITH DICK’S” Blowout Sale this weekend at both of our locations. Pricing and locations are listed below. This is a huge opportunity to SAVE HUGE on our entire line of Springfield firearms, but don't wait too long because it is only while supplies last! We'll also be offering 10% OFF any Springfield holsters and accessories. The sale will open to the public this Saturday and Sunday, however, Members will get first dibs starting this Friday. The sale cannot be combined with any other promotions and we will be accepting call-in orders in case you can't make it to our stores. We have limited quantities of these firearms so, again, don't wait too long! This is going to be an opportunity you definitely won't want to miss! A pawn shop in Little River, South Carolina also decided to poke fun of Dick's Sporting Goods: And another awesome gun sign. This one is in Little River, South Carolina. pic.twitter.com/70eaqmeWhM — Beth Baumann (@eb454) May 26, 2018 The sign was put up a few days before the deadly shooting in Santa Fe, Texas. According to pawnbroker Brad Stamper, most people are receptive to the sign. “It’s about 99 percent support,” Stamper told WMBF-TV. “Our phone’s ringing off the hook.” Stamper said the shop has received supportive phone calls from callers in Texas, Missouri, Florida and Colorado. Stamper recently took to Facebook to post a statement about their sign, which was shared on the company's Facebook page:
Actor John Goodman opened up about the cancellation of “Roseanne” — by saying he'd like to stay silent. "I wasn't gonna get an Emmy anyway," Goodman says in a video released by ET. “I’ve been up there [11] times already, and if I didn’t get one I’m not gonna get one.” Until now, the 65-year-old actor who played Roseanne Barr's on-screen husband, Dan Conner, had been reluctant to talk about the fate of the ABC sitcom, noting: “Everything’s fine.” (I’d) “rather say nothing than to cause more trouble,” he says in the video footage. He adds that he wasn't following news of the controversy: “I don’t know anything about it. I don’t read it.” ABC canceled its successful reboot of “Roseanne” on Tuesday following Barr’s racist tweet likening former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett to a cross between the Muslim Brotherhood and a “Planet of the Apes” character. Barr continued tweeting Wednesday, at one point saying the offending tweet was composed at 2 a.m. after she took the insomnia drug Ambien. That led the drug maker Sanofi to say on social media that “racism is not a known side effect” of its product. Late Wednesday, Barr tweeted: “I just wish ABC had not thrown two of the greatest actors in the world out with me-Laurie (Metcalf) and John. I'm so sick over this-they will never have better character actors on their network.” Barr also wrote that what she said was indefensible, then retweeted several statements others made supporting her. She apologized to those who had lost their jobs because of her action, including Goodman, but also condemned cast members who threw her under the bus, in her words. “I’m not a racist, I never was & I never will be,” she wrote Wednesday. “One stupid joke in a lifetime of fighting 4 civil rights 4 all minorities, against networks, studios, at the expense of my nervous system/family/wealth will NEVER be taken from me.” The Associated Press contributed to this report.
ABC's highest rated sitcom "Roseanne" was abruptly cancelled Tuesday just hours after Roseanne Barr went on on a "racially charged" twitter rant. On Tuesday, Tom Shillue began his show by asking did @ABCNetwork overreact? Tom pointed out that Roseanne apologized for her Twitter rant and removed her jokes. It apparently didn't matter to the network. "Should it matter?," Tom asked.
Tuesday was a bad day for Disney’s bottom line. The company’s stock fell by more than 2 percent Tuesday, closing at $99.72 — the first time the stock had been below $100 in more than two weeks. Based on Tuesday’s closing price, Disney shares are down nearly 8 percent so far this year. Disney-owned ABC made news Tuesday when it wasted no time in canceling “Roseanne,” one of the network’s biggest hits of the past season, after star Roseanne Barr sent out a racially charged tweet aimed at Valerie Jarrett, who served as chief adviser to former President Barack Obama. The reboot of “Roseanne” debuted in March to tremendous ratings, attracting more than 18 million for its premiere. The network had already ordered a full second season of the show. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Disney CEO Bob Iger said the network had no choice but to cancel the program. “There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing,” Iger said Tuesday via Twitter. From Channing Dungey, President of ABC Entertainment: "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show." There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing. — Robert Iger (@RobertIger) May 29, 2018 Even though ABC represented a relatively small portion (8 percent) of Disney’s overall revenues last year, market analysts agree that Disney had no choice from a business perspective to cut ties with Barr. Did ABC do the right thing in canceling 'Roseanne'? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “Disney’s corporate reputation means more than any single show on ABC,” wrote Michael Cannivet at Forbes.com. “By making the bold move of terminating the show as swiftly as it did, Disney put itself on the right side of a burgeoning trend investors are wise to monitor. That is: corporate responsibility.” But Barr’s social media gaffe wasn’t the only thing dragging down Disney stock. The much-anticipated release of the latest “Star Wars” film, “Solo: A Star Wars Story,” tallied just $103 million in box office receipts for the extended Memorial Day weekend — including just $84 million in North American ticket sales, the lowest opening for any of the four Disney-produced “Star Wars” films. Disney had expected the film to open with $130 million. The results have some investors questioning if the “Star Wars” franchise has lost some of its long-term potential for Disney’s revenue. RELATED: Stocks Make Record Comeback as Trade War Fears Subside The disappointing showing for “Solo” breaks a string of Disney hits at the box office, including Marvel’s “Black Panther” and “Avengers: Infinity War.” Disney’s stock opened Wednesday back above $100 before slipping almost all the way back to Tuesday’s close. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
A Georgia police officer is being hailed a hero after a dramatic dashcam video shows him performing CPR to help a choking infant breathe again. “Baby got the eyes open but not crying,” Officer Nick St. Onge is heard saying into his radio after he responded to a call to assist a baby who was conscious but not breathing and turning blue on May 15. “The child is approximately 2-months-old.” Litte Zeona was feeding on a bottle when her airway was blocked, Fox 5 Atlanta reported late Thursday. St. Onge, who has been a cop for five years and was a Marine for eight years, said he relied on his police and military training to deal with the situation. "It was three minutes of sheer terror," St. Onge said. The video--posted on the Marietta Police Department Facebook page Thursday-- shows the officer administering back blows and chest thrusts to try and get the baby to breathe. Zeona’s worried grandmother Kianna Dorsey is looking on. “Give me a cry. Come on. Come on,” St. Onge is heard saying. A short time later he hears a faint cry. “There we go. Come on,” he says. Police said St. Onge continued to provide care to the baby until paramedics arrived. Fox 5 reported that Zona has been doing fine since being released from the hospital. “It was a joyous experience, I’ll tell you that,” St. Onge told the station. “I'm happy to be one of those officers in the right place at the right time.”
Under pressure from Congress, Trump reversed on China ZTE sanctions. Trump's trade policy is like a page from French president Emmanuel Macron. It's neither here nor there, nor anywhere. Yesterday, both China and the US touted a trade deal with China. This followed a bizarre Tweet from Trump that showed Trump's concern for loss of jobs, not in the US, but China. President Xi of China, and I, are working together to give massive Chinese phone company, ZTE, a way to get back into business, fast. Too many jobs in China lost. Commerce Department has been instructed to get it done! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 13, 2018 In response, China lifted tariffs and so did the US. I commented on the "progress" in ZTE Back From the Dead After Trump Reverses Sanctions. Also Note These "About Face" Articles Whoa! Stop the Presses! Today we see Trump Denies Reaching Deal With China on ZTE. What happened? Congressional Opposition The Wall Street Journal reports Congressional Opposition Mounts Over White House Approach to Chinese Tech Deals. The Hill reports Senate panel overwhelmingly approves amendment blocking Trump on ZTE. Who Cares What Anyone Thinks? The man who did not give a rat's ass about what anyone in either party thought now suddenly cares. It's been a pathetic scene to watch. I commented on that aspect yesterday in Trump Shuffle: China Runs Rings Around Trump's Trade Policy by Standing in Place. At the time it looked like this. Reflections on Trust Today we see that widely proclaimed "success" has been canceled thanks to political opposition. Any foreign government that believes they can trust Trump is as foolish as any government that believes they can trust China.
TBS has taken down Wednesday’s episode of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee in which she described President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka as a “feckless c*nt.” According to a TBS who spoke with The Wrap, the episode will no longer be available online in an “in either an edited or unedited capacity.” “Ivanka Trump, who works at the White House, chose to post the second most oblivious tweet we’ve seen this week,” said during the episode.” You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c*nt.” “He listens to you. Put on something tight and low-cut and tell your father to fucking stop it,” she continued. “Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes, OK?” Bee has since apologized for her use of foul language. “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night,” said in a statement on Thursday. “It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it.” On Thursday, the online car selling and trading giant Autotrader announced it would suspend its advertising sponsorship with Bee’s show, describing her rhetoric as “offensive and unacceptable.” Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal. The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company. As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee. — Autotrader (@AutoTrader_com) May 31, 2018 Despite being a self-styled feminist, the 48-year-old comedienne has a long history of making crude comments about women within in the Trump White House, describing Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway as a “soulless, Machiavellian despot,” White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders as “completely evil,” and Melania Trump as a “trophy wife-turned-reluctant first lady.” Melania Trump’s Press Secretary and Communications Director Stephanie Grisham also issued a statement accusing the mainstream media of double standards in their reporting. “Time and again the Trump family and members of this Administration are subjected to false reporting, hateful rhetoric and outrageous lies all in the name of freedom of speech or comedy, yet the main stream media stays silent,” Grisham said in a statement. Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.
This wasn’t a hit Gary Sanchez will necessarily cherish. He admitted it was more about good fortune than skill, the ball finding the right spot. “I just threw the bat at it. I got lucky there,” Sanchez said of his opposite-field, go-ahead, two-run single in the Yankees’ 5-3 win over the Astros Wednesday night in The Bronx. With the bases loaded and two outs in the fifth inning, the Astros went into a shift, leaving a canyon-size space open on the right side of the infield. So Sanchez sent a 1-2 Dallas Keuchel fastball in that exact spot, turning a one-run deficit into a one-run lead. “To me, it was just putting the ball in play,” he said. “That’s what I was trying to do. It’s obvious I don’t hit a lot of ground balls to second base.” see also Severino dominates as Yankees take another series from Astros If the Yankees and Astros meet again this season, it... It worked, and Sanchez snapped an 0-for-19 in the process, producing the big hit that had eluded him of late. The two RBIs were his first since May 19, a span of eight games, the second-longest stretch of his career. “Any time you get a hit, you’re going to feel good,” he said. “But the important thing there was I got that hit and I was able to put the team ahead. That’s the most important thing there, getting ahead, contributing, helping the team.” Indeed, the Yankees never trailed again, going on to take their second series of the year from the defending World Series champion Astros to remain two games behind the Red Sox in the AL East. It was significant that Sanchez delivered the go-ahead hit. Though his power numbers are solid — 12 home runs, 35 RBIs and a .485 slugging percentage — his .799 OPS is underwhelming. So is his .211 batting average. That the Yankees still lead baseball in runs per game despite Sanchez not being at his best speaks to the depth of their lineup. And they don’t seem concerned about their catcher. “In the long run, he’s not going to hit down there [average-wise],” manager Aaron Boone said. “He’ll get it going and take off at some point. He just hasn’t had that long streak where he’s getting multiple hits all the time. Those streaks will come for him.” Maybe this was the start of one.
SCRANTON, Pennsylvania — After walking out of a small parking garage on Mulberry Street and turning the corner on Washington Avenue on the way to an official U.S. government Vietnam War Commemorative Event at the Lackawanna County Courthouse downtown here, one is immediately confronted by two nice men passing out pamphlets promoting their Baptist Church’s ceremonies. A few more steps towards the courthouse and across the street is a small-town barber shop. A few more steps down is Whiskey Dick’s bar, where a group of local just-past-college-aged men are planning a three-inning Wiffle ball game outside that same courthouse where a local boy is being honored for his decades-ago sacrifice for America. Lance Corporal Jimmy Reddington died at 19-years-old in Vietnam in March 1967, just a few months after he arrived there in December 1966. He was the life of Scranton, by all accounts, before he left to serve his country in one of the most gruesome wars in U.S. history. Like 58,000 other Americans, Reddington died in the jungle-covered country amid one of a series of wars and conflicts throughout the 20th century in which the United States was holding off the spread of communism on the world stage. Domestic political tensions meant Vietnam veterans were shunned upon returning home, and the sacrifices of those killed in action—or prisoners of war and those missing in action—were not remembered and honored like the previous generations who fought in World War II or Korea. But Scranton never forgot Jimmy Reddington or those with whom he served, as evidenced by the hundreds gathered here on a Memorial Day weekend Saturday for a local boy who died for their freedoms 51 years ago. Reddington, more than half a century later, finally received the medals he earned, the honor he is due, at a ceremony here in the heart of middle America–hours away from the bustle of Philadelphia or New York City–in the center of central Pennsylvania. A young man born out of time, Reddington could have just as easily been one of these other college-aged kids polishing off a pint before taking the Wiffle ball field–were he lucky enough to be born a few decades later. But Reddington was of age during the height of the Cold War, when the U.S. was battling communism’s rise all around the planet–especially in Vietnam. Reddington was just a Lance Corporal. He was not a general. He was not even an officer. He served at one of the lowest-level enlisted ranks. And when he died, his family here in Scranton was not far behind—so there was nobody to take care of his estate, his gravesite, or his military record jacket, including the awards he was due. It turns out his old marine buddies would step up to do that for Reddington. It’s one of the most heartwarming stories in the country, one that has received years of attention from Scranton Times Columnist Chris Kelly and recently a shout-out from the Wall Street Journal Editorial Board. Republicans and Democrats united to commemorate Reddington with the medals he earned but was never awarded, including two purple hearts, here in the heart of Trump Country. This working class town, the hometown of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s father Hugh Rodham and of former Vice President Joe Biden, which shifted from its Democratic roots to vote for President Donald Trump in 2016’s tumultuous presidential election, rallied around the veteran community as hundreds of locals, including many veterans, gathered for a parade and honor ceremony downtown, on Saturday, just two days before Memorial Day. Retired three-star Marine Corps Lt. General George Ronald Christmas told the gathered crowd: Most of you in this audience knows someone you’re thinking about right now, who gave the all, who didn’t come home, who was your foxhole mate. It was that fellow soldier, sailor, airman or marine that went through hell with you. I’d ask on this Memorial Day that you remember them because you know what? They’re the best of America. Jimmy represents them. That’s why what we’ve done to bring Jimmy’s medals home to honor him at his grave tomorrow, that’s why that’s so important. But my message to you is there’s so much more than can be done. All of you know it. So just go home tonight—I’m going to—and I’ll think about those young men that fell as we fought in that city and I think about those that fought before whether it be in the Korean conflict or World War II. This day, he said, is about Jimmy Reddington as much as it is about all those who served—especially those who didn’t come home—making the ultimate sacrifice for America’s freedom. The general, who retired in the mid-1990s, continued by noting that those present should think about the active duty military personnel as well. “The young men and women who wear the uniforms of our nation today are the very best,” Christmas said. “All they ask for is a little thanks once in a while. Give them what they need to do the job that they do, because that’s what they do every day selflessly just as these men and many of you here did in the Vietnam war or perhaps in other conflicts.” Perhaps one of the most interesting things about this whole situation is how it all came together. The story first hit the local news, under columnist Kelly’s byline in the Scranton Times newspaper, years ago. Back in 2010, around Memorial Day, Kelly wrote a column explaining the story of Jimmy Reddington: Jimmy Reddington was bright. Good looking. Funny. Tough. Girls adored him. Boys admired him. A left-handed quarterback who thrived under pressure, Jimmy was a natural leader who never backed down from a challenge. Even as a Little League pitcher, he was a fierce competitor. The other boys nicknamed him ‘Pecker,’ because if you got a big hit off of him, you could count on him drilling you in the ear with the first pitch of your next at-bat. The column explains how a man named Charlie Boylan, six years Reddington’s junior and also from Scanton, looked up to Jimmy as a kid. “Everybody liked him,” Boylan is quoted as saying about Jimmy. “He just had a magnetism that’s hard to explain. He was somebody any 12-year-old boy would want to be like.” Boylan later served as an M.P. in the Army in New Jersey after being drafted. He married and had two sons, worked as a substitute teacher and eventually for the state’s liquor control board. Then, in 2007, something happened that opened the story of Jimmy Reddington back up again for him. Kelly wrote: Charlie was driving home from work in November 2007 when he heard on the radio that the ‘Wall that Heals’ was being displayed at Nay Aug Park. The wall is a scaled-down replica of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C., which lists the names of the 58,627 Americans who were either killed or reported missing in action in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War. Since 1997, the names of 82 veterans who died later from wounds suffered in the war have been added to the wall. Charlie went to Nay Aug and found a listing for Lance Cpl. James T. Reddington – Panel 17 East, Line 31. He stayed a while and noticed that no one seemed to stop at Jimmy’s name. He went back the next day. Same thing. “It was like this kid just fell off the planet,” Boylan is quoted as saying. “I couldn’t believe there was nobody there for him. It just wasn’t right. I said to myself, ‘I’m going to find out more about Jimmy Reddington.’” Here’s what happened next, per Kelly’s 2010 piece: He started at Cathedral Cemetery, at the top of Oram Street. An attendant there told Charlie he was the only one who ever came to visit Jimmy’s grave, except for a pair of out-of-town veterans who were with him when he died. Amazed, Charlie asked if she knew their names. She didn’t, but she did have a photograph of them with Jimmy in Vietnam. He asked to see it before heading to the grave. There, he found that Jimmy’s mother had died in 1975. A sister and a nephew were also buried there. Reddington’s grave marker noted he was a member of Echo Company of the 2nd Battalion, Fifth Marines—which was made famous by the movie Full Metal Jacket. Kelly wrote.: The next stop was the library, where Charlie found a microfiche copy of the Scranton Times article announcing Jimmy’s death. He learned that his friend’s father died when he was 3 years old, and that aside from the names on the markers he had already seen, the only other relative listed in the story was a grandfather who lived in New Jersey. He naturally assumed Jimmy had no family left. The article quotes Boylan again as saying that he does not think Reddington’s grandfather could possibly still be alive, and therefore he was afraid that Jimmy was a forgotten soldier among the forgotten men and women of Scranton’s working class. “’This guy is forgotten,’ I thought,” Boylan said. “’He has nobody.’ That’s when I decided I had to find the Marines who visited his grave.” He reached out, via a website for the 2/5 Marines’ Echo Company, to a man called Joe Silvestri—since nicknamed “Silver” after the war—and found on the website an email address for Silver and photos of Silver at Jimmy’s grave. After some time, Silver called him back—and the two hit it off, including discovering they had another mutual friend: a former FBI agent. In addition to Silver and Boylan, another man who served with Reddington in Vietnam—Bob Worra—became involved, and eventually Boylan in 2010 published notices in the Scranton Times that he, Worra, and Silver intended to meet at Reddington’s grave site on Memorial Day weekend that year. Boylan had been publishing anonymous tributes to Reddington for years already in the local newspaper, but this particular one caught the eye of a distant relative of Reddington’s who never knew him: Jimmy’s niece Lea Portnova, who went to the tribute in 2010 that featured a crowd of about 150, per Kelly’s report in the Scranton Times. Since then, the phenomenon has grown to the point that now, in 2018, a legendary Marine General, Ron Christmas, came to speak—and present the long-lost medals Reddington never received because his family was gone and could not be awarded them posthumously. Retired Echo Company commander Col. Terry Ebbert spoke this year, too. “I think it represents, this is just what this country is all about,” Col. Ebbert told Breitbart News after the event. “These young men and women who grow up with the teachers and their parents and coaches—you don’t build warriors at age 19. They already got what it takes, you’re just training them. But to think to go back 51 years and to thank a true American hero, a Lance Corporal, we’re not talking about a general or a colonel. We’re talking about a Lance Corporal who is obviously respected by the city that raised him. I’ve met numerous people over the past few days who grew up with him, who knew him, who played little league baseball with him. And so I think that the story is we’re a great country and in middle America you have great families who go on to do great things, business-wise and some of them enter the military, and as a nation it’s amazing having the quality of warriors that we really have.” The ceremony has taken on a life of its own in recent years—and now lasts several days. A few days ago, General Christmas remembered Jimmy Reddington with local elementary school students, and there will be another event at Jimmy’s gravesite on Sunday after this Saturday event at the courthouse. Lots of local politicians will attend, like Mayor Bill Courtwright, Lackawanna County Commissioner Patrick O’Malley, and Lackawanna County court judge emeritus Thomas Munley. The whole event was organized by former Pennsylvania attorney general Ernie Preate, a Republican, who emceed the ceremony. The chief of staff for Rep. Matt Cartwright (D-PA), a Democrat, read a statement for the crowd that the congressman had read into the congressional record on the floor of the House of Representatives this week. After the event, Gen. Christmas explained for Breitbart News exclusively what he meant by “the best of America” being represented here. “Well, first of all—walk up here and look at those slabs, look at the traits that are listed: Loyalty, discipline, and then look at those wonderful quotes and that certainly represents America as you come to this center point,” Christmas said. “Then, secondly, for me, as you look out into the eyes of those veterans, I see service. I see dedication. I see ‘I didn’t ask for thanks but I served my nation and it sure would be nice to be thanked.’ Gatherings like this are so important—they’re important, first of all, to say thank you to the veterans, to those who served. But you know what’s more important? What’s important and brings us together as Americans is what went before. Remember that we’re free today—we’re divided, and we can argue with one another, we can do all of those things because we’re free. And why are we free? Because of those sacrifices all along the way.” When asked if in the day-to-day political battles Americans sometimes forget about these sacrifices for freedom that were made, General Christmas said, “We do. We do.” “That’s how it should be,” the general answered next, noting that Republicans and Democrats got together and put aside their differences on Saturday to honor Jimmy Reddington. General Christmas called on Americans to drop the partisan hatred of President Trump and focus on solving problems for the country. “That’s how Americans are,” General Christmas said. “What is democracy? It’s about compromise. It’s about trying to take the best of both proposals and bring them into something that is common good and move it forward. In my own personal view, we got to get over all this personal internecine warfare that is going on. We need to come together again. There are too many threats to our nation—externally certainly, you can see them all around. But there are some internal threats as well. What we need to do is come together and say ‘ok, let’s remember what made us great. Let’s remember what made us strong. And hey, you know what the guy in the White House may not be a guy who talks like other politicians but let’s give him a chance. Let’s get on with it. Let’s get on with getting the job done.” He noted that the president is surrounded by “apolitical” U.S. Marine Corps generals, like White House chief of staff John Kelly and Secretary of Defense James Mattis. “We serve our nation,” General Christmas said. “It may be hard, but if the president calls, you go. You serve. And you do it to the best of your ability.” The general led the veterans assembled, before the ceremony began, in a march from a nearby hotel to the courthouse’s front lawn. They marched to the sound of snare drums and bagpipes played by the Greater Scranton Black Diamond Bagpipers. The official U.S. Marine Corps Color Guard—based at the Marine Barracks in Washington, D.C. —presented the colors. The hundreds of veterans—many of them who served in Vietnam—proudly marched with General Christmas and Col. Ebbert at the front, leading them through downtown Scranton. Preate, the former GOP attorney general for Pennsylvania who organized and emceed the event, told Breitbart News afterwards that the whole country can learn from the story of Jimmy Reddington. As a Scranton native, Preate was asked by Jimmy’s fellow Marines to chair the event as he had served as a platoon commander in the 7th Marines across the river in Vietnam from where Jimmy died with the 5th Marines. “This is a remembrance of people who came back, and people who didn’t come back,” Preate said. “You don’t—this short march today by these veterans was wonderful because they never had a welcome home parade. They had one today with the legend Gen. Ron Christmas and they were—it was just great to see the veterans come out today to honor one of their own. From all wars, we just don’t do this enough. We ought to take a lesson from small towns like Scranton across this country—which there probably are towns across this country like Scranton having solemn ceremonies like this. We ought to do more of them and thank our veterans because we didn’t get our freedoms without their sacrifice.” Preate was thankful that politics took a backseat here on Saturday, and said it’s something that has happened a lot in Pennsylvania, even when he was attorney general working with a Democratic governor in Robert Casey. “We don’t do that enough today—courtesy,” Preate said. “Jimmy Reddington was a kid from Scranton. He was 19-years-old. What’s a three-star general doing coming down here to make sure his awards get placed in the right spot? That shows you what America is all about. We don’t recognize the poor amongst us and those who sacrificed amongst us. We don’t do enough of that. There’s not enough courtesy, there’s not enough respect, there’s not enough appreciation for the work that people do to make our communities work, whether it’s in government or in the private sector. More respect is needed for one another and their opinions.”
President Trump announced in May that he is granting a full pardon to conservative filmmaker Dinesh D'Souza. D'Souza was convicted in 2014 for making an illegal campaign contribution. Trump, in announcing the pardon, said he was "treated very unfairly by our government." The pardoning of D'Souza is Trump's fifth since taking office in 2017. Read on for a look at what presidential pardons are, and why the president has the authority to issue them. What is a presidential pardon? A pardon is seen as a “sign of forgiveness,” not necessarily evidence that a person is innocent, according to the Department of Justice. “A presidential pardon is ordinarily a sign of forgiveness and is granted in recognition of the applicant’s acceptance of responsibility for the crime and established good conduct for a significant period of time after conviction or release from confinement,” the Justice Department states. “A pardon is not a sign of vindication and does not connote or establish innocence.” “For that reason, when considering the merits of a pardon petition, pardon officials take into account the petitioner’s acceptance of responsibility, remorse and atonement for the offense.” If pardoned, people must still disclose the past conviction when required but can also disclose a pardon has been granted. A pardon will restore some of a person’s rights, but not those that are dictated by the state, such as the ability to hold public office or vote. Who grants the president the authority? The president “shall have the Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offenses against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment,” according to Article II, Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution. This power – which only the president has – applies to federal crimes, not state offenses, according to the Justice Department. The pardoning power does cover Washington, D.C., and military court-martial proceedings. How does one receive a pardon? To apply for a pardon, a person must submit a petition to the Office of the Pardon Attorney, a part of the Justice Department. Additionally, a five-year waiting period must occur before a person is eligible to be pardoned. Those seeking a pardon for a military offense must apply through the secretary of the military department that had jurisdiction over the case, according to the Justice Department. If a pardon petition is denied, the Justice Department allows a new petition to be filed two years later. Are they common? They certainly aren’t unusual. Former President Barack Obama noticeably granted many during his two terms in office. According to data from the Pew Research Center, Obama granted clemency to more people – 1,927 people, to be exact – than any president since Harry S. Truman. In comparison, former President George W. Bush granted 200 people total clemency, and former President Bill Clinton did so for 459 people. Truman granted clemency to 2,044 people, and former President Franklin D. Roosevelt to 3,796. Obama also received more requests than any other president. Trump has so far pardoned five people: former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, former Navy sailor Kristian Saucier, former Vice President Dick Cheney chief of staff Scooter Libby, the late boxer Jack Johnson and now conservative commentator Dinesh D'Souza. Johnson's pardon was given posthumously. He commuted the sentence of meat plant executive Sholom Rubashkin.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Recently, a young being – I don’t want to presume its gender identity, but it’ll probably throw a hissy fit about my blatant chrono-shaming anyway – scribbled an article titled 10 Things Every Intersectional Feminist Should Ask On a First Date for his/her/xir fellow liberal freaks. It’s an illuminating view into the twisted minds of the SJWs, but the article never answers the first question we all asked ourselves reading the title: “Why the hell would anyone ever date an intersectional feminist?” Masochism? Threats? Lost a bet? Anyway, her/his/xir article is meant to help her/his/xir readers determine whether their prospective mates will be adequate “accomplices in the fight against white supremacy, queerphobia, and misogyny” because “[i]f you’re not going to support marginalized folks, then we can’t be friends, let alone date. The personal is political.” Wow, he/she/xe seems super fun, huh? We Normals seek accomplices in reproduction, while SJWs seek accomplices in ideological onanism. Take solace in the fact that we are totally going to outbreed these lunatics. But as conservatives, it’s vital that we also do some screening of our own. After all, the last thing we want to do is inadvertently turn down a Darwinian not-a-through-street and spawn more liberals. I’m out of the dating game thanks to my closed-minded, heavily-armed, hot American-Cuban wife, but let me try to help out you singleberries with some questions to assist you in detecting any right-swipes who are actually covert leftist weirdos, losers, and/or mutations. 1. Do you believe that any group’s lives matter more than others? The answer should be a resounding, “Yes!” American lives matter more than the lives of foreigners, our allies matter more than our enemies, and some people – like jihadists, perverts, and people who refuse to acknowledge the manifest truth that Die Hard is a Christmas movie – matter not at all and should be hunted for sport. If your date starts telling you some races matter more than others, get up and leave – preferably sticking your date with the check. The last thing you want is some prog-eugenicist who puts people into categories based on where their great-great-great grandfather came from and then justifying it because every pale truck driver from Lawton, Oklahoma, was somehow born with overwhelming privilege. Actually, if your date ever uses the term “privilege” non-ironically, ditch. 2. How many genders are there? The proper answer is, “Two.” There are two genders. Not three. Not four. Not sixty–seven. Two. Male. Female. That is all. 3. How do you work to dismantle sexism in your life? The correct answer is, “I don’t. I work to support myself with a job so I’m not some freeloading bum feeding off of Uncle Sucker.” If your date has enough dough to indulge in this whiny posturing – money probably provided by his/her ultra-disappointed father, who is living back in some suburb and wondering where he went wrong – then stick him/her with the check. 4. What are your thoughts on guns? Your date should answer, “You don’t have enough guns.” This answer should come before you mention just how many guns you already have. Relationship Rule of Thumb: No one gets to first base without an appreciation of the Second Amendment. 5. Do you support Israel in its fight against Seventh Century savagery? The only acceptable response is, “Oh, hell yeah.” Extra points if your date adds, “Every time the IDF launches an airstrike on Hamas an angel gets his wings. And all that land the Palestinian thugs are squatting on? That’s part of Israel too.” 6. What is your understanding of settler colonialism? Your date must understand that it is awesome. The greatest achievement of the last thousand years was the European settlement of North America (South America – whatever) and the building of the nation that is the greatest beacon of justice and freedom in human history – the United States of America. Elizabeth Warren notwithstanding, Native Americans are terrific in many ways, including their legendary record as warriors serving in America’s armed forces, and they sure don’t need or want some lib doofus’s pretend pity. There’s no cheaper, tackier sentiment than a pinko rich chick from Brentwood calling Thanksgiving “a celebration of genocide” and whinging on about how those mean old settlers conquered the continent back in the olden days of the 1940s or something – as if she’s ready to pack up her condo and move back across the ocean with 325 million other folks. 7. Do you think socialism is wonderful? Your date should ask, “Is that a sick joke?” The last thing you want is some commie pestering you about how, “True socialism has never been tried!” Look, if 100 million dead isn’t enough to put your date off the Marxist garbage his/her professors shoveled at him/her in school, then your best case scenario is waking up and finding all your cash missing. 8. Do you believe in climate change? The answer is, “Yes.” The climate changes all the time. What you really want to know is whether your date is a cultist affiliated with the liberals’ weird weather religion. Here’s a good way to find out. Offer to drive your date, in a Ford F-150 pick-up truck with no catalytic converter, to a local wood fire BBQ joint that advertises, “We have the best ribs and the biggest carbon footprint in town!” If your date’s response is, “But that seems like a socially irresponsible earth-crime against Gaia,” go alone. If your date’s response is, “Let’s Uber instead so we can both drink lots of beer,” consider proposing marriage. 9. Do you support people from Islamic countries? The right answer is, “Yes, which is why I support American warriors hunting down and killing jihadist scum in whatever stinking cesspool these cowardly semi humans are hiding in.” Ten bonus points if this prompts your date to mention his/her Army tour in the Middle East. Five points if it was with the Marines, three for Navy. If Air Force, no bonus points and expect your date to complain that the restaurant’s chairs aren’t comfy enough. 10. So, what do you think of CNN and the mainstream media? This should provoke a tidal wave of obscenities and profanities and a torrent of phrases like “fake news,” “That weasel Don Lemon…” and “Don’t even get me started on Brian ‘Tater’ Stelter….” If your date says something like, “Well, I think journalists try really hard to be objective and do the best they can to report the truth,” then you should – depending on how hot your date is – either bail immediately, or work to help your date get conservative woke. Some awesome conservative literature is a good start. 11. So, do you consider yourself Never Trump? This is a deal killer. Sure, if your date is a Never Trumper, you might get a Conservative, Inc., cruise out of it – provided you’re willing to sit through a scintillating panel discussion with Bill Kristol talking to Ben Sasse about health care reform and spend your evenings drinking Idaho chardonnay on the Lido Deck while David Frum reminisces about back when he mattered. But don’t do it. If your date answers in the affirmative, you can be sure that, like with the president, no matter what you do, no matter how conservative you are, your date will never be satisfied with you and will spend the rest of the date complaining about your lack of True Conservative™ principles. And you can be equally sure that if your date is a Salon Approved Fredocon, you’re unlikely to ever be satisfied either.
Why does anyone, anywhere, still tweet? In a span of seconds, Roseanne Barr blew up her life this week, rage-tweeting racist and bigoted commentary. Just one day later, the Philadelphia 76ers announced they were investigating their team president and general manager Bryan Colangelo amid allegations he operated five secret Twitter accounts to gossip about and gaslight his own players. In April, leading NFL prospect Josh Allen’s entire future was imperiled hours before the draft when racist tweets he’d posted in high school resurfaced. (After hasty damage control, the Buffalo Bills picked Allen.) If Instagram is the platform for presenting your fake enviable life and Facebook the hub of virtual friendship, Twitter is the repository of the id — the childish, brutal, needy, raw, unmediated id. It somehow brings out the worst of human nature, yet celebrities, athletes, politicians and journalists still use it. People who already have public platforms somehow do not find this enough, somehow convinced by Twitter that every thought they have must be so brilliant, so original, it must be shared with the world. It’s usually not. Just ask Kanye, or his alter-ego Donald Trump. “I was hacked,” said Anthony Weiner in 2011, denying — before admitting — that he’d tweeted a lewd photo of himself to a 21-year-old college student. Weiner is now in federal prison for sexting with a 15-year-old girl. “When a friend found [those posts] in December and sent them to me, I was stunned,” said MSNBC host Joy Reid in April, after homophobic statements on her Twitter feed surfaced. “Frankly, I couldn’t imagine where they’d come from or whose voice that was.” Sure. It tells you something when Silicon Valley execs stay off the social media platforms they’ve engineered to manipulate and addict the rest of us. Steve Jobs famously limited screen time for his own children. Evan Williams, co-founder of Twitter, has denied his kids iPads in favor of books. Bill Gates limited screen time for his children and didn’t allow them cell phones until they turned 14. Twitter itself is only 12 years old. We haven’t even begun to understand the ways in which it’s changing us individually, politically, socially, morally, neurologically. That even the wealthy and powerful can be decimated by one digital utterance should alarm us all. A 2012 study at Chicago University’s Booth Business School found that Twitter is more addictive than cigarettes, alcohol or caffeine. Participants reported the greatest “self-control failure rates” when it came to checking or posting tweets. In 2014, a study by market research company Neuro Insight found that Twitter users reported that they felt a high degree of “personal relevance” when tweeting — 51 percent, higher than with other social media platforms. When ABC announced the “Roseanne” reboot in January, Barr herself said she couldn’t be trusted with her own Twitter account and that she’d turned it over to her adult children. “I didn’t want it to overshadow the show,” she said. Now Barr has lost millions of dollars: Her critically-acclaimed reboot canceled, re-runs dropped everywhere. Barr is a pariah, someone even Charlie Sheen feels comfortable criticizing — where else? — on Twitter. “I apologize,” Barr tweeted at 7:28 am on May 29. “I am now leaving Twitter.” Later that day, she was right back, blaming Ambien. That wasn’t the drug to blame.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. North Korean Spy Chief Kim Yong Chol, Kim Jong Un's right hand man, is meeting with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in New York City, to discuss the potential June 12th summit. Former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson has done all there is to do in government and discusses the possible meeting. Electric cars are said to be bringing the future closer, but they are facing some problems. John Simpson of Consumer Watchdog and National Fire Protection Association's Andrew Klock weigh in. Plus, commentary from FOX's Senior Judicial Analyst Judge Andrew Napolitano.
A tourist has reportedly added a racy video of her bare breast to a remote road on Google Maps, sending locals into a fluster — and racking up hundreds of five-star reviews for the spot. The naughty clip shows her checking over her shoulder before pulling down the neckline of her pink top to expose her breast, while flirtingly smiling at the camera. The tourists supposedly uploaded the video to a quiet route along Pingtung County, Taiwan, and it immediately stood out from the other mundane images of farmland and farming equipment. Local residents who saw the viral footage joked they were driving to the village “straight away.” One said: ”I’ve never thought about going there but now I want to. It definitely seems like a lively area.” The quaint country road is now witnessing a spike in five-star reviews, with another user commenting: “This is a great place! I’m not afraid to make a special trip! This is the glory of being an experienced driver.” Screenshots of the 18-second clip are also being shared on Facebook groups all over Taiwan. It’s unclear who the woman at the center of #boobgate is, though local media are referring to her as “western.” The fact that she posted a video to Google Maps indicates that she may be a Local Guide. That’s the term reserved for users who regularly contribute reviews and photos to the mapping service. With each contribution, Local Guides earn points that can be swapped for real-life perks including extra online data storage and early access to new Google features. And last September, Google gave Local Guides the ability to add videos to Maps as well. But that’s not to say you can post nude clips to the platform. Google Maps’ terms of usage states that it doesn’t permit pornographic, explicit or sexually suggestive content. However, it’s up to users to report the objectionable posts, which Google promises to then swiftly remove. And it seems the company has done just that in this instance, as the video is no longer appearing on that stretch of road. Google told Apple Daily it is investigating just how the clip was successfully smuggled onto Maps, and is working on strengthening the system’s automatic detection mechanism.
Miami Herald: Gas prices hit a three-year high in Florida Two weeks after Hurricane Irma spiked demand for gasoline in Florida, gas prices have hit a three-year high in Florida, according to AAA. The average price of regular unleaded statewide hit a high $2.73 per gallon on Sept 14, surpassing the previous three-year high in December 2014. On Sunday, Sept. 17, it had dipped to $2.71 per gallon. The current average in the Miami area is about $2.75 a gallon, according to a survey by GasBuddy.com. Florida Times-Union: Some question state’s measurement of teacher effectiveness Days before the school year started, state education officials forced Duval County Schools to remove 35 teachers from eight high-need schools. Those teachers’ so-called “VAM” scores were too low, the state said, and they shouldn’t teach at schools trying to turn around persistently low grades. The controversial move cast light on the main way Florida measures a teacher’s effectiveness, VAM scores. VAM stands for value-added measure or value-added model. It features a complicated formula based on student academic growth, as measured on state tests, to judge teacher effectiveness. Miami Herald: Parents in 48 Florida counties don’t have to worry about lunch money for a month There is such a thing as a free lunch for students in 48 Irma-affected Florida counties. The U.S. Department of Agriculture accepted Florida’s Department of Agriculture request to give free meals until Oct. 20 to kindergarten through high school senior students in 48 FEMA Major Disaster Declaration counties. Miami-Dade and Broward’s public school systems each already declared its students will receive free breakfast and lunch for the foreseeable future.
On the heels of ABC firing Roseanne Barr over a racist tweet, a harsh focus is now on “Full Frontal” host Samantha Bee for calling first daughter Ivanka Trump a “feckless c---t" on Wednesday night. President Trump has been pointing out a double standard regarding who can use insensitive rhetoric, and many have pointed to Bee’s comment as a prime example of the hypocrisy. Mediaite columnist Joseph Wulfsohn noted that Barr was fired in three hours after likening former President Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett to an ape, but TBS has remained silent on Bee. “If that's not a double standard, I don't know what is,” Wulfsohn tweeted. Former White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer added, “Compare ABC’s reaction to Roseanne Barr’s tweet [with] TBS’s non-reaction to Samantha Bee and you’ll see a double-standard in action.” It all started when Ivanka Trump was criticized by this week by the left for a snap she shared of her hugging her son amid reports the Office of Refugee Resettlement lost track of 1,500 immigrant children in the last three months of 2017. Many Trump critics buttressed their claim with photos of illegal immigrant children in what looked like cages, only to be embarrassed when it turned out the pictures were taken during the Obama administration. Bee weighed in on Wednesday night on her TV show with a crude attack on the first daughter. “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c---!” Press Secretary Sarah Sanders called the comment “vile and vicious,” while also noting the clear double standard. “The collective silence by the left and its media allies is appalling. Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast, and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network,” Sanders told Fox News. Bee defenders were quick to label these takes as “whataboutism,” although few on the right were defending Barr's comments. Most were simply pointing out that a double standard clearly exists regarding how celebrities who say awful things are treated. The Daily Wire’s Matt Walsh wrote that Bee's comment was “not an off-the-cuff tweetstorm, we should note. This was a written, planned, and produced monologue on Bee's TBS show… She should be fired immediately. And we should demand that she be fired. Bee’s show “Full Frontal” airs on TBS, an asset of Turner Broadcasting System, which also owns CNN – the network Presidennt Trump regularly mocks as “fake news.” CNN even condemned Bee’s comment, with anchor Poppy Harlow calling the comment “incredibly offensive” and saying the c-word is “never okay to say to someone” on Thursday morning. Later in the morning, CNN political commentator Keith Boykin essentially blamed Trump for Bee’s vulgar comment about Ivanka. “I think that the larger point here that is missing is the culture that is being generated from the president,” Boykin said. Despite Boykin's spin, dozens of media members and celebrities took to Twitter to chime in on Bee’s comment. TheWrap media editor Jon Levine asked, “Can we talk about what would have happened if Roseanne had called Malia Obama a c---? Conservative commentator Mark Levin called Bee “disgusting” and said she should be fired immediately and NBC's Megyn Kelly asked, "How is this acceptable?" “And how are we expected to take any of these publications seriously if they gleefully repost something like this at the same time they (rightfully) condemn @therealroseanne? You know the saying Love is Love? Well, Hate is Hate,” Kelly added. Political commentator Ryan Fournier wrote, “Bee called Ivanka Trump a “feckless c*nt” and some are defending this? You’re the problem with Hollywood. What happened to civility? She needs to be fired.” Free Beacon reporter Natalie Johnson joked that "Samantha Bee calling Ivanka Trump a c*** in reference to a picture she posted with her son is so woke, I can't believe people decry media bias!!" Former presidential candidate Herman Cain directed a tweet at TBS, writing, “shall I assume the Samantha Bee cancellation news will come later today?” Comedian Tim Young wrote, “So Samantha Bee shattered the glass ceiling of letting people call women the awful c word... we can all do that now, right?” Young added, "Could you imagine the INSANITY if Chelsea, Sasha or Malia were called what Samantha Bee called Ivanka?" Radio host Erick Erickson chimed in, “All the progressives in my timeline telling me the Roseanne situation and Samantha Bee situation are not comparable will, I’m sure, be fine when Trump supporters start calling Clinton, Warren, Pelosi, etc. the same as what Samantha Bee called Ivanka Trump.” Earlier this week Sanders addressed news that Disney CEO Bob Iger reached out to Valerie Jarrett, the former adviser to President Barack Obama, after ABC cancelled the “Roseanne” show because of Barr’s racist comment about Jarrett. Sanders said President Trump wants to know why Iger hasn’t apologized for the “horrible things” said by its anti-Trump personalities like Keith Olbermann, Jemele Hill and Joy Behar. Speaking to reporters, Sanders said Trump was “simply pointing out the bias” and “hypocrisy in the media.” She said “the most horrible things” are said about this president and “nobody addresses it.” Fox News media guru Howard Kurtz seemed to agree with Sanders and said on "America's Newsroom” Thursday that Bee's comment is a "shining example of viciousness" but there has been "no uproar" against TBS to this point. "It's the worst word in the English language that you can use to describe a woman. ... Instead it's being reported as, 'Wow, did you see what Samantha Bee said?' The media's outrage against Roseanne, which is justified, is kind of very selective and I'm not seeing it against Samantha Bee," he said. Fox News’ Kathleen Joyce and Alex Pappas contributed to this report.
If you ever get into any sort of trouble inside an Uber car and want to call 911 quickly, you’ll be able to do so right inside the app. It’s not such a huge hassle to call 911 from the phone as it is. But Uber’s 911 addition is indeed a step forward for a company that had to deal with various user security-related incidents in the past, as it’s supposed to assist a person in distress by providing crucial additional information. The panic button, first announced back in April, was tested in India before being launched in the US. In mid-April, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi announced the new 911 Assistance feature and 911 integration pilot program. The new 911 Assistance can be activated with a swipe up the screen, which brings up the Safety Center. Tap on 911 Assistance and then confirm your intention to call 911 with an additional tap. Once that’s done, you’ll see information on the screen that might be relevant to the situation, including your real-time location and address, as well as details about your ride. The feature is available for Uber riders for the time being, but the Uber app that drivers use will also get it. “We realize that a lot of situations and a lot of criminal activity arises when people think they’re not being watched,” Uber’s director of product management Sachin Kansal told The Verge. “And we just want to say that we’re turning the lights on. Part of turning the lights on is providing these features to both sides and also make sure we’re making the entire community aware of the presence of these features.” The 911 integration pilot, meanwhile, will automatically send your location data to 911 dispatchers when you place the call. The feature could save precious time and help first responders reach your location even faster. The program, however, will be limited to a handful of locations, The Verge reports, including Denver, Colorado; Charleston, South Carolina; Nashville, Tennessee; Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Naples, Florida. Uber made the news in the past thanks to quite a few security-related incidents, including a case in India where a woman was raped by an Uber driver and sued the company after reports came out that top execs including Travis Kalanick tried to discredit her. The city of London, meanwhile, decided not to renew Uber’s license last year, citing safety issues. More recently, a self-driving Uber car in Arizona fatally injured a pedestrian.
This is not a defense of Roseanne Barr’s awful comment. But the swift banishment she received highlights the Grand Canyonesque difference between how speakers on the right are treated when they misstep versus speakers on the left. Being a leftist in today’s society basically allows you to get away with whatever you want. As I’ve often maintained, leftism is the status quo. On Tuesday, the politically correct henchmen of Disney decided to lower the boom on the very popular reboot of “Roseanne” because Barr made a disparaging comment about the looks of Valerie Jarrett. You remember Valerie: She was the senior adviser to Barack Obama. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Barr tweeted that Jarrett looked like the progeny of the Muslim Brotherhood and “Planet of the Apes.” Politically incorrect? Certainly. But her opinion? Also certainly. Let me be clear: I am not defending Barr’s remarks. They were ugly and not helpful. Roseanne immediately and profusely apologized for her comments. But remember, boys and girls: Only leftists are allowed to make controversial statements and get away with them. Colin Kaepernick can ignite a racial nightmare for the National Football League, and Black Lives Matter and liberals everywhere demand he gets hired. (Side note — he walked out of his contract, and nobody wants to hire him, for various reasons.) After an entire season of giving the middle finger to fans, the NFL brass have wisely chosen to listen to the people who pay their bills over some pampered, hyper-racialist brats. They have instilled a “no kneeling” policy during the national anthem. Kaepernick and his supporters are still demanding he be hired by a team — any team. April Ryan of CNN recently tweeted an article asking whether Donald Trump was the perpetrator of a child sex ring run out of the White House. She is still employed. Barack Obama was buddies with domestic terrorists Bill Ayers and Bernardine Dohrn — so much so, he kicked off his political career in their Chicago living room. He was also close with the notorious Rev. Jeremiah Wright — and met with rabid anti-Semite Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan. Over the weekend, Farrakhan said the elimination of white men was what would be best for the world. (Again — not too different from your run-of-the-mill leftist, but still.) As we all know, absolutely nothing happened to Barack Obama or Louis Farrakhan. RELATED: The Mojo of Trumponomics Kathy Griffin, who used to be funny, last year was publicly shunned for approximately six months for beheading an effigy of President Trump. She’s now back selling out comedy shows to fellow travelers in America and abroad — and has since walked back her apology to the president. She feels no remorse for her actions, and instead somehow casts herself as the victim of a right-wing cabal (I wish!). But back to Valerie Jarrett. She was born in Iran — and has been purported to have Muslim Brotherhood ties. So does Hillary Clinton’s adviser and bestie Huma Abedin — and so do quite a few others who used to work in the Obama administration. Several countries classify the Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist organization. The Muslim Brotherhood is basically a kissing cousin to Hamas and Hezbollah. Barr’s comment about Jarrett’s looks might be overboard, but to the left, the truth in part of the comment doesn’t even matter. Another recent example of leftist hypocrisy in action happened in Maryland. A white police officer named Amy Caprio was intentionally run over and murdered by four black teens in Baltimore County after they were caught breaking into someone’s home. Their behavior is excused by leftists — because they’re black and just don’t have a chance. Naturally, according to the media, the real problem is that white people move to Baltimore County. They’re not blaming the individuals involved in this burglary and murder. They’re not blaming the fact that Baltimore has become a Third World city under Democrat rule: No. The media are blaming “white flight.” (Don’t believe me? Read this.) Yes, something is inherently wrong about decent people of all colors, ethnicities and creeds who move away from dysfunction and don’t want to be victims of violent crime or live in destroyed neighborhoods. The amazing thing is that leftists never connect the dots between their policies and the outcomes of their policies. Leftist policies have ruined cities, states and countries large and small. Baltimore, California and Venezuela come to mind. But remember, you’re not supposed to point that out. Instead, you’re supposed to join in on wishing assassination on British conservatives like commentator Katie Hopkins or cheering the arrest of Tommy Robinson for actually having the courage to speak out about the effects of unfettered Muslim immigration. You’re supposed to hail revivals of William Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar that cast Caesar with a President Trump lookalike — and then enthusiastically applaud when Caesar/Trump is stabbed to death. You’re supposed to take seriously grown females who wear p—-hats and foam vaginas screeching about how President Trump and his nefarious protege Mike Pence are going to round up women and force them all to give birth to as many babies as possible. But before that, you’re supposed to find Madonna and her tortured English accent waxing ridiculous about blowing up the White House very enlightening. You’re supposed to laugh when “comedian” Michelle Wolf mocks White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders’ appearance or implies that the president of the United States wants to have sex with his own daughter. The examples of vicious leftist rage are endless — but, according to our leftist masters, you must accept it. As a conservative, you’re supposed to embrace being maligned and smeared every day of your life. It is a shame that Bob Iger, chairman of the Disney Corp., which owns ABC and ESPN, kowtowed to the politically correct fascists surrounding him. You know who they are. They demanded Roseanne‘s head on a platter after she sincerely apologized for her comments, but just gave Keith Olbermann a multimillion-dollar contract with ESPN. Olbermann is the little lamb who, on several Twitter and video rants, has called President Trump (and conservatives in general) “Nazi,” “bigot,” “racist” and worse. He is one of the foulest of foul leftists — and that’s saying something. After all, the title of one of Olbermann’s books is “Trump is F*cking Crazy (this is not a joke).” But if you’re a left-wing lunatic, money just magically flows your way! Also on ABC is the completely unwatchable hour of drivel called “The View” — which should be renamed “Four Leftist Harpies and One Hapless Semi-Conservative.” Every day, these screeching harridans spew venom about conservatives — and literally nothing happens to their livelihoods. They still collect multimillion-dollar paychecks. I daresay this is not the last we hear of Roseanne Barr, nor of the glaring hypocrisy on the left when it comes to non-politically correct commentary. What they haven’t counted on is an electorate who is beyond the point of ticked off at leftists in media, government and the swamp in general. We are an electorate who is standing up and defending entertainers like Roseanne Barr, police officers like Amy Caprio and figurative and literal political prisoners in Great Britain like Katie Hopkins and Tommy Robinson. They keep underestimating us — to their peril. We are not here to play with them any longer. Is it November yet? Angela Box is a former teacher, devoted to the Constitution and conservatism and proud to live in Texas. A version of this article originally appeared on her blog, angelassoapbox.com. The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by the owners of this website. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Another deadline arrived Tuesday in the Mississippi Legislature, with committee action required on bills that originated in the other chamber. Any bill from the other house that didn’t receive committee approval is dead. March 30 is the next deadline for floor action on bills from the other chamber, as the session winds down to its scheduled end on April 24. Here’s a list of the bills of interest that either survived or died: Civil Asset Forfeiture reform A civil asset forfeiture reform bill, the Asset Forfeiture Transparency Act, was approved by the Senate Accountability, Efficiency, Transparency Committee on Tuesday and is headed to the full Senate for a vote. House Bill 1410 would require the state’s Commissioner of Public Safety to maintain a searchable database of all property and cash seized by state and local law enforcement agencies. ALIVE Related: Civil asset forfeiture reform could be on tap for Mississippi Welfare reform An ambitious welfare reform package, known as the Act to Restore Hope, Opportunity and Prosperity for Everyone, was approved by the Senate Medicaid Committee on Monday. HB 1116 got a boost on March 17 when Kansas Lt. Gov. Jeff Colyer arrived to meet with Lt. Gov. Tate Reeves, House Speaker Philip Gunn and other leaders about how a similar welfare reform, with work requirements for able-bodied benefit recipients, helped get people off the welfare rolls and onto the tax rolls in Kansas. “It’s actually something that everyone agreed on in 1996 with the Clinton welfare reforms,” Colyer told Mississippi Watchdog. “Forty-two states have waived out of those reforms. What we’re talking about is able-bodied adults having a simple work requirement. They asked us to visit with them and share our experience.” Kansas tracked its welfare recipients after the work requirement and the results were startling. Their incomes increased 127 percent and 60 percent found work within 12 months of leaving the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program program. HB 1116 also would strengthen anti-fraud protections on the SNAP and Temporary Assistance to Needy Family programs. ALIVE Related: Mississippi welfare reform is halfway home Jackson Airport takeover Despite vocal opposition, Senate Bill 2162 passed Tuesday out of two House committees — Judiciary A, and Ports, Harbors and Airports — and is headed to the full House for a vote. The bill would create a nine-member board to manage Jackson-Medgar Wiley Evers International Airport to replace the five-member board appointed by the mayor of Jackson. The bill was amended to require that five of the commissioners come from Jackson, with one appointed by Jackson’s mayor and one appointed by the City Council. The key change was a Jackson residency requirement on two of the governor’s picks and the lieutenant governor’s. With the head of the state’s National Guard and the director of the Mississippi Development Authority also sitting on the board, it’d give the governor the power to appoint four of the nine commissioners. ALIVE Related: Suburbs want say on Jackson airport’s operation Parental Involvement and Accountability Act HB 4, known as the Parental Involvement and Accountability Act, died in the Senate Education Committee on Tuesday. The controversial bill would have required teachers to grade parents’ involvement with their children’s education. DEAD Related: Mississippi House passes bill requiring teachers to grade parents Election reform HB 797 would overhaul the state’s election system. It was approved by the Senate Elections Committee on Tuesday with an amendment that would end the practice of elected officials being able to to convert their leftover campaign cash into personal income when they leave office. ALIVE Related: Mississippi campaign finance overhaul targets unitemized expenses Related: Mississippi campaign finance laws allow golden parachute for politicians Charter school expansion HB 1044 would allow students in failing districts to cross district lines to attend charter schools. It was approved by the Senate Education Committee on Tuesday. SB 2161, which would expand charter schools to non-failing districts, was approved by the House Education Committee last week. ALIVE Related: A few tweaks, but it’s wait until next year for major school choice reforms in Mississippi Contact Steve Wilson at swilson@watchdog.org. Get regular updates on Mississippi through our Facebook or Twitter accounts.
3:39 MeToo charges starting to haunt Morgan Freeman Morgan Freeman is experiencing fallout after eight women accused the Hollywood star of sexual misconduct. “I apologize to anyone who felt uncomfortable or disrespected — that was never my intent,” Freeman wrote in a statement to The Post. 1:49 The Drake-Pusha T beef is the messiest in rap history Drake and Pusha T have taken their beef to the next level, after the less famous rapper released a diss track, “The Story of Adidon,” accusing Drake of hiding a love child he had with a porn star named Sophie. The diss track was accompanied by a shocking “unedited” photo of Drake in blackface. 1:09 Paris Jackson refused to sit by and watch Dior's horse show It’s no moonwalk, but Paris Jackson’s epic walkout at a French fashion show has people talking. The 20-year-old left the Dior show early because she reportedly was offended by the treatment of animals at the fashion house's Mexican rodeo-themed show. 0:56 Brad Pitt threw Harvey Weinstein against a wall Brad Pitt came to Gwyneth Paltrow’s defense back in 1996. After Harvey Weinstein allegedly made a pass at the “Emma” actress, Pitt threw Weinstein against a wall. “If you ever make her feel uncomfortable again, I’ll kill you,” Pitt reportedly said to the now-disgraced media mogul. 3:23 Kim Petras is the first transgender pop star Kim Petras could be the next Britney Spears. This is the 25-year-old trans singer’s journey to pop stardom. Her music video for “I Don’t Want It All” has nearly two million views on YouTube. 1:42 HSN exec called out for sending 'disrespectful' email A scandal has hit QVC and the Home Shopping Network. After the two TV giants merged, HSN’s on-air training manager, Gordie Daniels, sent an email to the entire staff that many found disrespectful. HSN is home to Mariah Carey, while QVC boasts Ellen DeGeneres as one of its star hosts. 1:54 Sonja Morgan’s equal-opportunity humpfest on the dance floor What some people call “humping,” Sonja Morgan calls grinding and dancing. While the “RHONY” star had a wild night on the town in New York, dancing dirty with both men and women, she told Page Six that the reports were greatly “exaggerated.” 1:55 Amber Heard is dating Heidi Klum’s ex Johnny Depp and Elon Musk are long gone. Amber Heard has a new beau in her life, art dealer Vito Schnabel. The two were spotted “locking lips” over breakfast at West Village hot spot Sant Ambroeus. 1:08 'He was so hot’: Countess Luann confirms fling with Keith Hernandez Long before she married the Count, Luann de Lesseps dated Mets legend Keith Hernandez. While he told Andy Cohen that the two “hooked up,” the Countess says it was more like dating. “He was so hot, I had such a crush on him,” she dished to "Page Six TV."
President Trump said Thursday he was considering pardoning or commuting the sentences of Martha Stewart and former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich, following his announcement earlier in the day of a full pardon for conservative filmmaker Dinesh D’Souza. The president’s comments came during a gaggle with reporters on Air Force One enroute to Houston, Texas. Trump called the former governor’s sentence on corruption charges “really unfair” and added that “plenty of other politicians could have said a lot worse.” The president said that Blagojevich said something dumb, but that "lots of politicians" do. “I’ll tell you another one … there’s another one that I’m thinking about. Rod Blagojevich -- 18 years in jail for being stupid and saying things that every other politician, you know that many other politicians say,” Trump told reporters. “And if you look at what he said, he said something to the effect like 'what do I get' … stupid thing to say.” The former Democratic governor, who was a contestant on Trump's "Celebrity Apprentice" in 2010, began his 14-year prison sentence in 2012 after being convicted of corruption. Blagojevich's scheduled release date is in 2024. Blagojevich was governor of Illinois from 2003 to 2009, when he was impeached and convicted on corruption charges over allegations he took bribes for political appointments—including to the open U.S. Senate seat of former President Barack Obama. Trump suggested he was more interested in “curtailing his sentence” than a full pardon. “I am seriously thinking about – not pardoning – but I am seriously thinking of a curtailment of Blagojevich," Trump said. The president also said he would consider pardoning Stewart, saying she "used to be one of my biggest fans." “And there are others. I think to a certain extent Martha stewart was harshly and unfairly treated. And she used to be my biggest fan in the world … before I became a politician," Trump said. "But that’s ok I don’t view it that way.” Stewart was convicted in 2004 of obstructing justice and lying to the government as part of an insider trading case. At the time, former FBI Director James Comey was the federal prosecutor who charged Stewart. The president's comments come after an early morning tweet announcing that he would pardon D'Souza. “Will be giving a Full Pardon to Dinesh D’Souza today. He was treated very unfairly by our government!” the president tweeted Thursday morning. D'Souza told Fox News he received a call from the president on Wednesday to notify him of the decision. "I am thrilled and relieved and elated and as an immigrant in America, my American dream has been under something of a cloud, so I'm very relieved to have that cloud lifted," D'Souza told Fox News on Thursday. D'Souza said he and Trump spoke for about 10 minutes, calling it a "very pleasant and very exciting call." "President Trump told me he felt I had been treated very unfairly and he felt that I was an important voice for America," D'Souza said. "He wanted to clean my record and adhere to continue doing what I'm doing." The conservative filmmaker had pleaded guilty in 2014 for donating $20,000 to New York politician Wendy Long, allegedly going over the contribution limit by directing other donors to give to her. He was sentenced to five years of probation and eight months in a halfway house, and paid a $30,000 fine. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Close More than 800 people in Michigan are infected with hepatitis A strain that causes severe complications and liver failure. This outbreak sets the highest morbidity and mortality case in the history of hepatitis A in the United States. The Worst Hepatitis A Outbreak The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services recorded 837 cases of hepatitis A as of May 23 including 671 hospitalizations and 27 deaths. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said they are investigating the viral outbreak, which began infecting people in August 2016. The Wayne County and City of Detroit health departments, as well as the Oakland County Health Division, urged the restaurant workers to avail the vaccine. Dr. Nicholas Gilpin, the chief medical officer of Beaumont Hospital in Grosse Pointe, describes hepatitis A as more of a nuisance condition and that only 1 percent of the cases typically progress to liver failure. Patients who are infected with the virus usually recover over time. "In all three of those jurisdictions, which have been most heavily impacted by these ongoing hepatitis outbreaks, the hospitalization rates have all been very high. Something is different and we're trying to figure out what it is. It's going to take a little while," said Jay Fielder, manager for surveillance and infectious disease epidemiology of the MDHHS. Who Are At High Risk? People with hepatitis A spread the virus through their feces, which can eventually contaminate food or water. The virus is also transmitted through body fluids, for instance, during sexual intercourse. Symptoms such as fever, joint pain, loss of appetite, jaundice, and dark urine do not show until after 15 to 50 days from the onset of the disease. This is why it is difficult for health officials to manage the condition when it has progressed to an aggressive stage. "People can live for decades without symptoms, but over time chronic hepatitis can cause serious health problems," said Dr. Eden Wells, the chief medical executive at MDHHS. "Michigan residents are urged to learn the facts about hepatitis, particularly the steps they should take to protect themselves and how to identify their risk of the disease." People who use recreational drugs or those who traveled to countries where there is a hepatitis A epidemic have higher risks of contracting the virus. Men who have sexual intercourse with men and those with chronic liver diseases are also at risk, according to the WHO. See Now: Things You Should Never Search For On Google — You've Been Warned © 2018 Tech Times, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
Voters chose to support school choice in Oklahoma, heading to the polls in support of educational freedom over those who would maintain the educational status quo. “In race after race, when Oklahomans had a clear-cut choice between a candidate who supports giving parents more education options for their children and a candidate who does not, voters consistently elected the school choice candidate,” said Betsy DeVos, chairwoman of the American Federation for Children. “The American Federation for Children applauds these candidates for standing up for the rights of parents and children.” Read more here.
For over a hundred years, the Progressive Left in this country has been waging war against American free market capitalism and the prosperity that it has brought to hundreds of millions of people worldwide. Animated by a love of Marx and a blind hatred for wealthy and successful entrepreneurs, Progressives have made quite an impact on our society. From government to the private sector, public schools to unions, and Hollywood to the mainstream news media, the anti-capitalist Left seems to have a foothold in practically every major node of American political and cultural life. But this is no reason for despair, says Andrew Puzder, a former Trump labor secretary nominee and the former CEO of CKE Restaurants, which runs the famous Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s fast food chains. In fact, according to his upcoming book “The Capitalist Comeback: The Trump Boom and the Left’s Plot to Stop It,” which is due for release later this month, President Donald Trump is at the vanguard of a new pro-business and pro-capitalism movement that can defeat the Progressive Left for good if it plays its hand right. Coming from a background both as a successful international businessman and someone who grew up working minimum-wage, entry-level jobs, Puzder’s life experience gives him a unique insight into the core intellectual deformities of those who have made the annihilation of capitalism their life goal. In the introduction to his book, Puzder says that one of his primary goals in writing it was to create a “‘Most Wanted’ list of the institutions standing in the way of freedom and prosperity” in America so that those who value capitalism and free enterprise can better understand the forces that are fighting to obstruct Trump’s economic agenda. And in that respect, “The Capitalist Comeback succeeds pretty brilliantly. From his dissection of the socialist activism and even support for murderous violence endemic in labor and teachers’ unions like the AFL-CIO or the AFT to his breakdown of the Progressive news media and its penchant for producing propaganda (from Upton Sinclair and his fake news opus “The Jungle” to the daily stream of lies and misdirection about Trump and other Republicans), Puzder makes an excellent case not just for how the various elements of pro-socialist leftism have been able to corrupt our most important institutions, but why they lost steam during the Obama years. As Puzder makes the case, it was Obama’s wholesale shift leftwards in favor of relentless centralization and expansion of the Federal government — both by legislation and executive fiat — and the resultant anemic growth of the American economy that played a key role in dislodging many of the current Progressive crop of politicians from office. But some of them still hold considerable power, especially in the news media. Puzder experienced this firsthand when his nomination to be Trump’s first labor secretary was derailed by widely reported allegations that he had physically abused his first wife (charges that she publicly refuted, to little apparent effect) and had wanted to replace all of his CKE restaurant staff with robots. The cumulative political pressure brought on him and his family by these accusations, including an ominous letter filled with white powder that appeared on his doorstep, and several key Republican defections at his Senate confirmation hearing (Senators Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski being among them) ultimately forced him to step down from consideration. However, Puzder has not just quietly retreated to count his bruises and move on. “The Capitalist Comeback” is certainly a fitting way to get payback at the Progressive Left and expose their agenda to the American people. Once you see inside their funhouse of apologia for communist dictators, disdain for the lives and rights of normal middle and working-class people, and their stubborn contempt for embracing proven free market economic policies and solutions, it’s difficult to view Progressives in the same way again.
Last week, the families of Sandy Hook victims filed a class action lawsuit against Info Wars' Alex Jones. The plaintiffs allege that Jones has fabricated conspiracy theories about the events that took place at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14, 2012. Here's what the lawsuit claims: Defendant Alex Jones is a conspiracy-theorist radio and internet personality who holds himself out as a journalist. He is the most prolific among these fabricators. But he does not work alone: along with his various business entities, Jones is the chief amplifier for a group that has worked in concert to create and propagate loathsome, false narratives about the Sandy Hook shooting and its victims, and promote their harassment and abuse. Jones, along with these others, has persisted in the perpetuation and propagation of this outrageous, deeply painful, and defamatory lie in the face of a mountain of evidence to the contrary, and with no supporting evidence. Alex Jones does not in fact believe that the Sandy Hook Shooting was a hoax — and he never has. Nevertheless, time and time again, Jones accused Sandy Hook families, who are readily identifiable, of faking their loved ones' deaths, and insisted that the children that were killed are actually alive. Jones has deliberately employed these false narratives about the Sandy Hook shooting, the victims, and their families, as part of a marketing scheme that has brought him and his business entities tens of millions of dollars per year. The lawsuit cites a number of videos and social media posts made by Info Wars and Info Wars' staff, claiming that pushing this false narrative has become a "business model" for Jones. The Jones defendants have developed and cultivated an audience through the propagation of narratives revolving around paranoia, social anxiety, and political discord, a known motivator for some people. The false claim that the Sandy Hook shooting was a government-sponsored hoax designed to lead to gun control therefore a prime narrative for attracting, augmenting, and agitating Jones' audience. Here are a few of the videos the plaintiffs cite as examples: The plaintiffs also make the argument that Jones and his staff present themselves as journalists and then used the "trusted journalist" stance to push their conspiracy theories onto their listeners. The lawsuit also offers examples of articles written on Info Wars that perpetuate the allegedly false narrative that Jones is pushing, such as the one posted on December 19, 2012, titled "Father of Sandy Hook Victim Asks 'Read the Card?' Seconds Before Tear-Jerking Press Conference." At the bottom of the article, there was a statement from Jones: “My deepest condolences go out to Mr. Parker and the rest of his family, as well as all the other families suffering from this tragedy. It appears that members of the media or government have given him a card and are telling him what to say as they steer reaction to this event, so this needs to be looked into.” The lawsuit was brought about by the families of four children and two adults who were killed during the shooting, as well as a first-responder who was on the scene.
The Scottish National Heritage has released a series of troubling photos in an effort to inform the public of the troubling effects of pollution on local wildlife. “Most of us have seen upsetting images of turtles, whales, dolphins or seabirds entangled with plastics or discarded fishing gear. Perhaps less well known is the tragic effect that marine litter can have on land mammals when it washes up on our beaches,” the SNH wrote in a blog post. TOURISTS WARNED NOT TO FEED KANGAROOS MCDONALD'S AFTER BRUTAL ATTACKS Along with the post, the organization shared photos — taken over the last year — from the Rum National Nature Reserve on the Scottish island of Rum, one of which showed two stags who died when their antlers became entangled in the same discarded fishing line, while another showed a live stag with its antlers entwined with some old rope and a buoy. The SNH also wrote about finding another dead deer, this one entangled with a fishing line that was already attached to a previously deceased deer skull, presumably belonging to an animal that had died after getting itself wrapped up in the line. “Who knows, had we not removed it, the rope may have one day claimed a third victim,” SNH writes. Even small pieces of trash, such as a short length of rope or a piece of netting, can attach itself and “rub” into the animal’s skin, “causing an open wound, and the afflicted animal will die from an infection,” according to the organization. PHOTO: FISHERMAN CATCHES RECORD-BREAKING LAKE STURGEON IN MINNESOTA The SNH shared its findings and photographs in order to highlight what they perceive not only a as a problem with marine waste in Scotland, but as a “huge international problem.” “But small actions can make a big difference, and everyone has a part to play,” said Lesley Watt, a reserve manager on Rum National Nature Reserve for SNH, according to the BBC. To that end, the SNH is urging anyone “walking on the coastline” to pick up any discarded items that may pose threats to wildlife, or get involved with larger-scale coastline cleanup initiatives across Scotland. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS The SNH further announced its commitment to plastic straws and disposable plastics within the organization — an initiative that is already gaining momentum in Stateside cities such as Malibu, Miami Beach and Seattle. "If you use your own bag for life when shopping, or take litter home after a day at the beach, you could help save an animal's life,” said Watt.
President Barack Obama was veritably shell-shocked in the wake of Donald Trump's election victory in 2016, and even asked aides “What if we were wrong?” as he struggled to come to terms with Hillary Clinton's defeat, former adviser Ben Rhodes writes in a new memoir coming out in June. The book, titled "The World As It Is," highlights efforts by Obama's brain trust to reassure him that he would have won re-election if he were allowed to run for a third term. But Obama remained alternately optimistic and dejected, according to Rhodes, who has been feted as an aspiring novelist-turned national security wunderkind. “Sometimes I wonder whether I was 10 or 20 years too early,” Obama told aides, according to the memoir. “Maybe we pushed too far. ... Maybe people just want to fall back into their tribe.” “There are more stars in the sky than grains of sand on the earth," the book quotes Obama saying in a message to Rhodes the day after the election. "Maybe this is what people want." - Former President Barack Obama, trying to understand Donald Trump's election win Days later, Obama reportedly came back down to Earth, saying: “Maybe this is what people want. I’ve got the economy set up well for him. No facts. No consequences. They can just have a cartoon.” Rhodes was promoted from presidential speechwriter to deputy national security adviser under Obama. He held that post during the raid that killed Usama bin Laden, as well as the U.S. intervention in Libya and the signing of the Iran nuclear deal. The possibility that Trump could unravel that legacy apparently weighed on Obama, Rhodes writes. FMR OBAMA OFFICIALS FORM ANTI-TRUMP THINK TANK “I feel like Michael Corleone," Obama reportedly said, referencing "The Godfather" character as he prepared to hand over the White House to Trump. "I almost got out.” According to Rhodes, he and Obama were not aware that the FBI had begun an investigation into the Trump campaign's dealings with Russia until after the election. The book also touches on some foreign-policy melodrama as Obama made his exit from the world stage, amid a shifting geopolitical climate that included Brexit and rising disenchantment with globalism. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany had a "single tear in her eye" when she and Obama parted for the last time, and Obama noted that "she's all alone" to defend his liberal principles, according to Rhodes. BEN RHODES JOKES ABOUT GOP LEADERS' 'OBITS' In footage from an HBO documentary recording on election night in 2016, Rhodes himself was seen sitting alone outside on a bench, haltingly repeating that the situation was difficult to "process." But in his memoir, Rhodes says he should have predicted the result. “I couldn’t shake the feeling that I should have seen it coming,” he writes. “Because when you distilled it, stripped out the racism and misogyny, we’d run against Hillary eight years ago with the same message Trump had used: She’s part of a corrupt establishment that can’t be trusted to bring change.”
A group of young football players from Idaho pulled off a heck of a feat this week at the Bay Area Spring Football League Tournament of Champions. On Monday, the Boise Black Knights — a team of 12, 13 and 14-year-old boys — became sporting heroes, winning a huge regional competition hundreds of miles from home. As their caravan of three vans and an RV drove up Route 95 on Tuesday, they were bedecked in sporting glory like gridiron Caesars returning from Gaul. On their way home, they got to be heroes in quite a different sense. As they made their way up the highway, they encountered an overturned car with two people trapped inside. So they did the only thing that a cohort of strong young men could do; they propped up the upside-down vehicle, hauling the couple inside out of the car and to safety. TRENDING: Browns player promises big gift to fans if Cavs win NBA Finals TEAMWORK IN ACTION: The Boise Black Knights, an Idaho youth football team, acted quickly to help car crash victims. The players worked together to free a man and then lift the car to pull a woman to safety. https://t.co/0ErbuLeTtA pic.twitter.com/TZCN5rT8lo — Action News on 6abc (@6abc) May 31, 2018 Head coach Rudy Jackson didn’t mince words about what the boys in his charge had done. “We had to stop and become heroes. It was just a little adversity,” Jackson said, according to the Idaho Statesman. “It’s almost an unreal story.” Just a little adversity? The last time a Black Knight made an understatement like that, King Arthur had just removed four of his limbs. Do you think these young football players are heroes? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Wildcard updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Regan Magill, one of the players, was tasked with recording the event on video, and as with Caesar in Gaul, Magill spoke to the moral certainty of his team’s task. “We stopped because we care about others before ourselves,” Magill said. “We just wanted to know if they were OK. It wasn’t really something we thought about. We just instantly pulled over.” Magill continued, “It just felt amazing that we could do what we did because I don’t want to imagine what would happen if we were not there to help.” Jackson, meanwhile, remained more than a bit awed by the boys’ selfless nature. “I’m more than proud. I’m at a loss for words,” Jackson said. “They got out of the car like they were supposed to do that … it’s a great bunch of kids.” RELATED: Player paralyzed during football game returns to field, this time to coach It’s kind of mind-boggling that there was the possibility for an “even better” after the season those kids had. The Black Knights stormed through the Rocky Mountain Youth Football League, going 11-0 on the season. They won the regionals of the American Youth Football — the tackle football equivalent of something like Babe Ruth League baseball — qualifying them for the tournament of champions in San Jose. Then, they smoked the San Jose Hit Squad in the Hit Squad’s hometown to win the national championship. All that in and of itself would’ve been enough to put them in the higher tier of the stories-to-tell-the-grandkids power rankings. But to then help out a couple on the highway and be humble about it in a what-else-were-we-supposed-to-do-way? That’s the kind of stuff that, if Hollywood made it into a movie, nobody would believe it. It would make a heck of a movie though, and whoever wrote the script wouldn’t even have to make a word of it up to turn the protagonists into true cinematic heroes. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Fox 31: Special session called to fix error costing RTD, others big money in marijuana tax revenue Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper called Thursday for a special session of the Colorado Legislature. Lawmakers will be called back into session to fix a bill drafting error that has been costing a number of special districts hundreds of thousands of dollars a month in marijuana revenue. They include RTD, the Denver Zoo, the Museum of Nature and Science and other organizations. The special session will address an “unintended consequence from the passage of Senate Bill 17-267, and will clarify special districts’ authority to levy sales tax on the sale of retail marijuana,” a statement from the governor’s office said. It will begin October 2. The Gazette: Bruce speaks out against Colorado Springs and El Paso County ballot measures Anti-tax advocate Douglas Bruce sang a familiar tune Thursday afternoon, decrying city and county ballot measures coming up in November. Standing in front of a handful of media on the Pioneer Museum’s south lawn, Bruce called a set of stormwater fees – proposed for the city and championed by Colorado Springs Mayor John Suthers – a “bait and switch” and a “rain tax.” If approved, the fees would charge residential property owners $5 every month, while nonresidential property owners would pay $30 per month for every acre of land they own. The fees would last for 20 years and are expected to raise an estimated $17 million annually. The city already spends $17 million on its stormwater obligations, Bruce said. Approving the fees would change where the money comes from but not the amount. Denver Post: Park County clears out “Flag Man’s” property after refusal to comply with county code After a monthslong legal battle, Park County has cracked down on code violations by Steve J. Bedigian, known as the “Flag Man of South Park,” and cleared his property of an eclectic assembly of flags and two-by-fours. It is among the first actions taken by county officials to enforce county code after admitted Planned Parenthood shooter Robert Lewis Dear Jr. put the unincoporated area near Hartsel on U.S. 24 – and its living conditions – on the map. Many residents of the area known as Hartsel Flats live in RVs, Tuff Sheds and nylon tents without electricity, running water or septic tanks. Dear and his girlfriend moved into an RV down the road from Bedigian in 2014.
To put the roller-coaster presidency of Donald Trump in perspective, it helps on occasion to imagine that Hillary Clinton won the election. My experience is that the exercise leads to greater appreciation of the president we have, warts and all. Start with Clinton herself. She has spent the last 18 months in a perpetual snit. “No, I’m not over it,” she confessed while turning Yale’s commencement into a self-pity party. Anyone who has dealt with her knows the “I’m a victim” shtick didn’t start with November of 2016, and would not have ended if she won. She’s been a blamer and finger-pointer her entire public life and would have taken her woe-is-me attitude to the Oval Office. Coupled with her breathtaking sense of entitlement, it is hard to see her presidency lifting the ­nation’s self-confidence, at home or abroad. To continue reading Michael Goodwin on The New York Post click here.
On December 14, 2012, one of the deadliest mass shootings took place at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newton, Connecticut. The attack was carried out by 20-year-old Adam Lanza, who killed his mother before going to the elementary school and killing 20 first grade students and six school personnel. His weapon of choice was a Bushmaster XM15-E2S rifle. The Email Exchange What's even more disgusting is that U.S Department of Education Secretary Arne Duncan and Chicago’s Mayor Rahm Emanuel had a short email exchange two days later about how to frame the shooting in order to push for gun control, The Baltimore Post reported. The entire email exchange took place over a nine minute period, from 6:57 p.m. to 7:08 p.m. Here's what the emails said: Duncan: “What are your thoughts?” Emanuel: “Go for a vote this week before it fades. Tap peoples’ emotion. Make it simple assault weapons.” Duncan: “Yup- thanks.” Emanuel: “When I did Brady bill and assault weapons for Clinton, we always made it simple. Criminals or war weapons.” Duncan: “Gun show loophole? Database? Cop-killer bullets? Too complicated?” Emanuel: “Cop killer maybe. The other no.” Duncan: “Got it.” Those who were killed in the horrific attack hadn't even been buried yet before the Obama administration was figuring out the best way to spin the shootings. Instead of focusing on the victims and healing the community, the White House was focused on pushing their next big agenda: gun control. The Background Rahm Emanuel worked on the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act during the 1990s under the Clinton Administration. The bill was named after James Brady, President Ronald Reagan's press secretary who was shot in an assassination attempt on the President. The Brady Bill created a five-day waiting period and mandated federal background checks. The waiting period requirement diminished in 1998 once the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) was implemented. One year after the Brady Bill became law, President Bill Clinton signed the Assault Weapons Ban into law, which passed in the House and narrowly passed in the Senate.
Fourteen Democratic Governors wrote to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar Thursday threatening legal action over the Trump administration’s proposed rule which would ban organizations that receive Title X federal funding for family planning from providing or referring for abortions. The governors called the rule “reckless” and inform Azar that if it is “finalized as written, we will have no choice but to explore all possible avenues, including legal options, to block it from harming the women in our states." "We stand with women and men in our states by rejecting this Administration’s efforts to interfere in the doctor-patient relationship, gut women’s access to family planning services, and force medical professionals to knowingly withhold information from their patients," they wrote, led by Washington state Gov. Jay Inslee, chair of the Democratic Governors Association. Despite the fact that abortion counseling is still permitted under the proposed rule, the governors claimed it “is nothing more than a domestic ‘gag rule.’” The White House even released a statement last week, emphasizing, “contrary to recent media reports, HHS’s proposal does not include the so-called ‘gag rule’ on counseling about abortion that was part of the Reagan Administration’s Title X rule.” "If the federal government breaks its commitment to states in the Title X program, we will react in kind and do what is necessary to protect the health of our constituents,” the governors concluded in their letter. “We call on all Americans to actively and aggressively oppose this proposed action."
An 18-year decline in American manufacturing may be drawing to a close, a result of tougher trade stances by the Trump Administration and its domestic tax policy. Echoing a campaign theme, The President recently told reporters that, “China has taken hundreds of billions of dollars a year from the United States. […] I explained to President Xi we can’t do that anymore…” The administration has consistently stated that Beijing reduce its $375 billion merchandise trade surplus by least $200 billion within the next two years, and has threatened to impose $150 billion in tariffs if an agreement is not reached. The favorable response to Trump’s moves have come from sources not generally noted for agreeing with GOP leaders, including AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka, who has often complained of Beijing’s unfair practices and the impact they have on American workers and their families. In response to Trump’s demands, China has agreed to purchase more American products and services, although total amounts and other details have not been agreed upon, and many difficulties remain. The history of American concessions to China that substantially harmed American businesses and workers has substantial tie-ins to the Clinton Administration, which was enmeshed in serious related scandals, largely underreported by the press. The (Bill) Clinton campaign was illegally the recipient of funds from China, and the Clinton Administration provided highly questionable technological and economic benefits to Beijing, (including the sale of Cray supercomputers despite significant protests from U.S. security personnel) and legislation normalizing trade relations, prompting significant protests from labor unions. Those objecting to the Clinton concessions have been proven correct. China has leapfrogged decades of high tech development, particularly in its military, thanks to the technology transfer. Perhaps no single act has resulted in more danger to the United States than the Clinton Administration’s approval of the export of supercomputers to China. Despite promises to the contrary, China has not abided by reasonable trade practices following normalization of commercial relations. Its resulting domination of several industries have resulted in decimating American industrial production and the loss of vast numbers of manufacturing jobs. U.S. News reports that within the first 13 years since normalization, 3.2 million American factory jobs were lost. Observers on both sides of the political spectrum have noted that normalizing trade with China turned that nation into an industrial giant while devastating both U.S. manufacturing enterprises and the workers they employ. That isn’t opinion, that’s a clear fact. It plays a key role in the accelerating descent of the American middle class, which became dominant in the 20th century due in large part to well-paying factory jobs. The Huffington Post’s Jane White explains that the major beneficiary of Clinton’s policy “were […] Chinese factory owners and U.S. banks and the biggest losers were blue collar workers. Mitt Romney may have run a company that outsourced jobs but Clinton ran a country that did….” The fact is, U.S. manufacturing declined sharply following China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. Consider the numbers in the years immediately following that event: from 2001 to 2009, America lost 42,400 factories. Manufacturing employment was reduced by 32%, representing 11.7 million jobs. The tide may be turning. According to the Federal Reserve, “Industrial production rose 0.7 percent in April for its third consecutive monthly increase…The indexes for mining and utilities moved up 1.1 percent and 1.9 percent, respectively. At 107.3 percent of its 2012 average, total industrial production in April was 3.5 percent higher than it was a year earlier.” A CNBC report found that the manufacturing industry has added roughly 293,000 jobs since President Trump’s election, according to the Department of Labor https://www.dol.gov/ data. Overall, the unemployment rate is 3.9%, the lowest since 2000—just before Clinton’s giveaway to China. Frank Vernuccio serves as editor-in-chief of the New York Analysis of Policy and Government.
I’m hearing that the release of the report from Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz is imminent. The report could come out as soon as Thursday. Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and his Judiciary Committee has a hearing scheduled for Tuesday, June 5, to go over the report. I’m told by Grassley’s office that Horowitz will attend and will be questioned. The IG has been looking into the FBI’s handling of the Hillary Clinton e-mail investigation during the election. As I wrote while that probe was going on, then-FBI Director James Comey and a few bureau high-ups seemed to be covering up for Hillary. I’m hearing that the report will be very critical of the former heads of the CIA and the FBI — as well as the agencies themselves. The phrase “constitution crisis” keeps coming up and I don’t think that is an exaggeration as to what might happen because of the report’s findings, many of which will remain classified and not released. The Democrats will need to counter the report with a sizeable offensive. On top of everything else going on, the markets will have to deal with the fallout from this report.
Minneapolis StarTribune: Some business leaders protest ‘restrained’ approach to Amazon bid Target Corp. and Best Buy Co. have emerged as complicating factors in Minnesota’s effort to attract Amazon Inc.’s second headquarters, but some Twin Cities tech leaders say the state’s economic future shouldn’t be handcuffed by the two homegrown firms. In the week since Amazon announced it was looking for a city beyond Seattle to build an office that may eventually employ 50,000 people, Gov. Mark Dayton and Minneapolis Mayor Betsy Hodges expressed less enthusiasm at the prospect than their peers elsewhere. Dayton said the state’s bid for Amazon, due Oct. 19, would be “restrained” and both leaders cited conversations with Target and Best Buy, who together employ about 20,000 people at headquarters in the Twin Cities. Some executives said Wednesday that they fear the deference to those companies shows that officials are more concerned about the state’s present than its future. “Unrestrained isn’t wise with taxpayer dollars, but I hope we are not holding back due to the current incumbents,” said John Tedesco, chief executive of Leadpages, one of the most successful startups in Minneapolis this decade. “The city has to continue to evolve and the companies that come here have to continue to evolve.” Twin Cities Pioneer Press: Minnesotans’ incomes are up, poverty is down, but successes remain uneven Following a national trend, Minnesota families in 2016 had more money in their pockets, were less likely to be poor and were more likely to have health insurance, data released Thursday by the U.S. Census Bureau show. Yet those successes were not felt equally. Large gaps remain between the income, poverty and insurance rates of many Minnesotans of color and their white neighbors. Minnesota’s median household income rose 3.3 percent between 2015 and 2016 to $65,599, the census found. Asian and white households had the highest incomes, while Hispanic, American Indian and black families earned considerably less. Black households did see a 10 percent increase in income over 2015 but still earned just $33,436, or roughly half of the state’s median household income. Minnesota Post: Minneapolis’ Hodges uses city budget address to tout efforts on police reform, housing, and Trump Incumbents running for re-election have some unique handicaps, and being a target is one of them. Challengers can criticize while offering only generalized examples of what they might do differently. In the 2017 Minneapolis mayoral race, Betsy Hodges has certainly experienced that from her 15 opponents, some more than others. But incumbents running for re-election also have some unique advantages. Mayors get to be mayor — with all of the attention and standing that brings. Hodges’ challengers rarely get the full attention of media coverage when they make pronouncements, and they don’t get to deliver their remarks amid the trappings of the office. Hodges took full advantage of that on Tuesday, when she delivered her fourth Minneapolis city budget address in City Council chambers. In a speech that came a month after the city charter says it should have —but also a month closer to election day — the 45-minute address both bragged about her accomplishments and promised to continue to work on a list of priorities: equity, cultural change in the police department, addressing a housing affordability problem and establishing cities like Minneapolis as a fighter of climate change.
American freedom was aptly defined by John Locke when he wrote, “A state of perfect freedom to order [each individual] their actions, and dispose of their possessions and persons, as they think fits, within the bounds of the law of nature, without asking leave, or depending upon the will of any other man…[and] should also be equal one amongst another without subordination or subjection.” The Lockean view of liberty and freedom excludes a man from the encroachment on one’s property and person from any other man. An encroachment from one man on to another puts that person at a state of war against the other, with the right of the man being encroached upon to use any and all means of removing that threat – even the death of the encroaching party. Americans understood this view since clergy preached this position for many years throughout the 1700s and especially as England intruded upon the colonists’ liberty. It was biblical to the American colonies. “No obedience is due to them by the law of God,” declares Pastor Stephen Johnson during a 1765 Fast Day sermon. He is referring to Locke, as he affirms a violation of natural rights creates a state of war against citizens. “May we not ask,” Johnson asserts, “who is the aggressor, he that invades the rights of a free people, or they who defend only what is their own?” He continues, “A kingdom divided against itself, cannot stand.” The Founding Fathers understood both the uniqueness and fragility of the experiment they had built, and it took them much toil, scholarship, discussion, thought, and debate to construct it. It was not easy and nearly failed multiple times. But at its core lies God; and by Judge Hand, there also lies liberty. The term liberty itself means emancipation and autonomy. This core principle of the Great Experiment is exactly what connects our individual sovereignty from the world with our individual relationship with God. This is the essence of the Great Experiment; the essence clearly proclaimed that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights. This is also the very reason during the debates over the Constitution a number of our Founding Fathers opposed the need for the Bill of Rights. If our rights are unalienable, established by God upon creation, (which they are) then it is not only unnecessary, but hazardous to list them out further. These dissenting Founders believed, and rightfully so, that doing so would give the impression that Fundamental Rights were given by government, not by God. In Federalist 84, Alexander Hamilton warns, “I go further, and affirm that bills of right, in the sense and to the extent in which they are contended for, are not only unnecessary in the proposed Constitution, but would even be dangerous…[and]…would afford a colorable pretext to claim more than were granted. For why declare that things shall not be done which there is no power to do?” Hamilton also references petitions of Fundamental Rights, Divine Law, declared in 1215 in the Magna Carta and in 1688 in the Declaration of Right presented to the Prince of Orange. James Madison supported the Bill of Rights, but gave a substantial stipulation in regards to them. “My opinion has always been in favor of a bill of rights; provided it be so framed as not to imply powers not meant to be included in the enumeration,” states Madison in a letter to Thomas Jefferson. He continues with the stipulation that, “the rights in question are reserved by the manner in which the federal powers are granted…Because there is great reason to fear that a positive declaration of some of the most essential rights could not be obtained in the requisite latitude.” This is why the America is the Great Experiment – it had never been tried before; it was utterly unique. The Great Experiment was “the most unusual society in history.” The Founders profoundly understood the magnitude of their experiment, and as James Madison wrote in the Federalist Papers: Happily for America, happily we trust for the whole human race, they pursued a new and more noble course. They accomplished a revolution which has no parallel in the annuals of human society. They reared the fabrics of governments which have no model on the face of the globe. They formed the design of a great Confederacy, which it is incumbent on their successors to improve and perpetuate. This was the spirit of the first American Revolution, the American Revolutionary War; our separation from oppression and tyranny of history and the world. It was the acknowledgment in the Shining City upon the Hill of our connection to our God, as the central theme of our being, and the foundation upon which the Shining City was built. That meant a limited government. The Founders know that only by a limited government could freedom be established and maintained; freedom of one’s mind (ideas and beliefs), body (labor), and property. This was the core of economic freedom. Even the slightest bit of too much government would erode, and eventually destroy this freedom, specifically economic freedom. Lockean philosophy warns of encroachment on one’s freedom. John Locke declares “that he who would take away my liberty, would not, when he had me in his power, take away everything else.” This Lockean declaration is the essence of the America’s limited government; it’s liberty.
Southampton Michelle Farmer Collaborate, the Palm Beach brand of colorful resortwear and beachy accessories, has set up shop at 10A Jobs Lane. Finesse your look with a silk slip dress or patterned linen shorts. Or swing by Shari’s Place at 29 Main St., and drool over the tempting array of designer brands and the softest leather and suede pieces. Shoe-industry favorite Sam Edelman is opening a pop-up at 38 Jobs Lane. Find his affordable footwear (including kids’ styles), flirty fashion and colorful handbags. The guys, meanwhile, will want to try on the pared-down and relaxed aesthetic of Eleventy, an Italian brand opening this summer at 53 Jobs Lane. French beauty brand L’Core Paris is landing at 9 Main St. Pamper yourself with anti-aging and radiance-enhancing products – formulated with organic botanicals and powdered 24-k gold and gemstones – or a soothing spa treatment. You can also dial back the hands of time at Epidermis Salon, located at 43 Jobs Lane. On the spa menu: diamond facials, anti-aging treatments and electrolysis. While you’re there, stock up on Zero Gravity, Lavelier and Mica Beauty goodies. For those on the hunt for hostess presents, the Hamptons’ oldest florist, Topiaire Flower Shop, just got a chic makeover and doubled in size. Customers at 51 Jobs Lane can stop and smell the roses while sipping complimentary coffee in a new outdoor seating area. And a number of Southampton retailers have busted a move. Alice + Olivia has decamped from Jobs Lane to 68 Main St. Henry Lehr relocated to 72 Main St. and now offers clothing for men as well as women, while Ruby and Jenna has taken over the former Calypso store at 24 Jobs Lane. Sag Harbor Is that fresh coconut or Coqui Coqui’s “Rosas Frescas” scent? At Havens, Kim-Van Dang’s new beauty and fashion emporium at 8 Main St., it’s bound to be the cult eau de parfum from Tulum, Mexico. Load up on other fragrant wares, from French fave Briard to Turkey’s Nishane. No nasties, meanwhile, is the policy at Onda Beauty, a nontoxic beauty boutique at 42 Main St. The brainchild of Larissa Thomson and Sarah Bryden-Brown stocks “clean” labels like African Botanics, Odacite and Saya. Attention, foodie fashionistas: Designer Donna Karan is moving her Urban Zen line into the same building as her girl Gabby Karan de Felice’s famed restaurant, Tutto Il Giorno (which has another location in Southampton). Score an amulet belt bag and a killer burrata, all at 16 Main St. You can outfit the entire family in Faherty’s casual, surf-inspired togs made of sustainable fabrics. Twin brothers Alex and Mike Faherty are behind the sun-washed tees, swimsuits and more at 56 Main St. Former Cosmo fashion editor Rebecca Hessel Cohen, meanwhile, curates the eclectic mix of decor, books, beauty, flowers and signature ready-to-wear at LoveShackFancy, tucked in a converted 1780s farmhouse at 117 Main St. Find your summer hero pieces at AYR Beach House, in residence at 25 Madison St. Love Gwyneth Paltrow’s modern aesthetic? Swing by the Goop Sag Harbor pop-up at 4 Bay St. for her warm-weather fashion, home and beauty edit. Bridgehampton Transform your house into a tech hub with the latest devices at Sunrise Smarthome. The showroom at 2462 Main St. will hook you up with everything from motorized shades to 4K flatscreen TVs. Or, if you prefer to get outside and play in the sunshine, Khanh Sports’ newest branch, at 2454 Main St., is a go-to for all the bikes, boards, Hobie kayaks and assorted accessories you may want to buy (or rent). Gen Z shoppers, meanwhile, will discover an A to (nearly) Z of trendy brands at Shine. Head to 2454 Main St. for Alex and Ani jewelry and Yala softwear. East Hampton Yes, cashmere makes perfect sense on cool, beachy nights, and Brunello Cucinelli has all the luscious knits you need. The Italian luxury king has doubled the size of its 39 Newtown Lane digs. And he’s not the only one upsizing. The Tory Burch world is available at the designer’s revamped 47 Newtown Lane store. Jimmy Choo is popping up a few doors down. The “Lance Jelly,” a sexy waterproof gladiator sandal, is exclusive to the 33 Newtown Lane location. Your interiors also deserve their own upgrade, courtesy of the furnishings, decorative pieces and fine art from Clic Home at 100 Park Place. Snap up photos by Antoine Verglas (owner Christiane Celle’s husband and partner). Or you can bring bébé to stay and play at charming Petit Blue Where Dreams Come True at 86 Park Place. The baby-gear, kids-clothing and toy store features an arts-and-crafts table and bean-bag chairs. They’ll never want to leave. And, finally, Hamptons habitué Aerin Lauder is unveiling a store at 7 Newtown Lane. Collect her timeless accessories, jewelry, home and beauty must-haves at Aerin. The shopportunities are endless.
Which way will interest rates go next? Interest rates soared in recent weeks with the 10-year US government note, for example, settling comfortably over 3 percent. Then, suddenly this week, it wasn’t over 3 percent anymore as buyers rushed into the bond market and the heightened demand caused rates to decline noticeably. On Wednesday, the rate on the 10-year was around 2.85 percent. On Friday, the monthly employment report will be released by the Labor Department and we’ll see whether that news will push interest rates over the important 3 percent level again. But truth be told, the job report isn’t the only thing going on right now — and it’s probably not even the most important. With chaos in the Italian government hurting global financial markets, foreign investors will probably decide to put more money into US securities in the days and weeks ahead. When demand for US securities goes up, interest rates go down — unless something bigger, like an all-out trade war with China kicks up or signs emerge that the world economy is blasting off and that inflation is getting out of control. Political confrontations in Washington that cause foreigners to question the stability of the Trump administration would be another overriding concern. Given all that going on, it’s even possible — although not likely — that the Federal Reserve, which meets again in the middle of June, will decide not to raise the interest rates it controls. A rate hike of one-quarter percent is widely expected. Wall Street is also expecting that Labor will announce that 185,000 jobs were created in May. That would be an improvement from the disappointing 165,000 new jobs that were created in April. The unemployment rate, which is a worthless economic indicator, is expected to remain at 3.9 percent. The experts are also expecting hourly wages to have increased by 0.2 percent in May from April levels. The increase in wages was 0.1 percent from March to April. While the average American would be thrilled by strength in employment and wages, the financial markets won’t be overjoyed if either the number of new jobs or wages comes in much stronger than expected. That would be taken as a sign of impending higher inflation and a more aggressive Fed. So then, what will be the dominant force in the market over the next week or so? The chaos in Europe? A full dose of Washington chaos — still to come with reports on investigations of the last election? Or the economic data? The answer: probably all of the above and some things I haven’t even thought of.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. "Across Europe and North America, centrists are the least supportive of democracy, the least committed to its institutions and the most supportive of authoritarianism." So wrote political researcher David Adler in The New York Times after analyzing responses to two multi-country surveys on values. Adler found that centrists are less likely to regard democracy as "very good" and to consider free elections and protecting liberties from state oppression "essential" features of democracy. His study is subject to criticism, notably that his classification of centrists is overbroad, but it contains at least a kernel of truth. The most vitriolic critics of electoral decisions in recent years around the world have been long identified -- and celebrated -- as centrists. They have been arguing that extremists, mostly on the right, are undermining the foundations of democracy. Democracy, in their view, is becoming dangerously undemocratic. That is the essence of much of the "Resistance" in this country to Donald Trump. His election was the result of a handful of Russian-sponsored Facebook ads. His complaints about the press are seen as a prelude to shutting it down. Hillary Clinton's election-season denunciation of those unwilling to accept an election result has given way to nonstop whining from someone who bridles at accepting an election result. Similarly, in Britain, Tony Blair has refused to accept the June 2016 Brexit referendum, in which more voters supported leaving the European Union than have ever voted for any party. Blair is looking to the House of Lords and the courts to force a revote. In Colombia, voters in October 2016 rejected President Juan Manuel Santos' peace agreement with the FARC guerrillas. Centrists disapproved of the vote; four days later, Santos was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. But voters have persisted, and in last Sunday's election, Santos' handpicked successor got only 25 percent of the vote. In Italy, the normally ceremonial role of president has just changed. The current president is about to force another election because he refused to approve the new euroskeptic government's nominee for finance secretary based on his threats to leave the eurozone. Blair, the Nobel committee and the Italian president -- and the would-be Trump impeachers -- evoke the oft-cited attitude of one American military officer in Vietnam: They believe they have to kill democracy to save it. Of course, they could argue -- and sometimes do -- that the policies advocated by the winners in the democratic process would be harmful and that they would undermine democracy. But that's a stretch, particularly coming from leaders whose centrist policies have proved to be far less successful than people used to think. Take Blair, whose decisions were seldom challenged in his 10 years as British prime minister. He surreptitiously changed policy to admit hundreds of thousands of low-skilled immigrants and led a government that refused to prosecute Muslim gangs that preyed on young working-class girls. If it hadn't been for the opposition of his colleague and rival Gordon Brown, who would become prime minister, Blair would have ditched the pound and put Britain on the euro. The euro was the work of political centrists -- and was clearly an enormous policy blunder. The decision to admit a million mostly Muslim young men to Germany, made without consultation by the most praised current centrist politician, Chancellor Angela Merkel, was another obvious blunder. Another centrist policy, eased mortgage standards for minority homebuyers, got staunch support from both George W. Bush and Barack Obama -- and was a major cause of the Great Recession. Given this record, it's not surprising that centrist leaders are increasingly the objects of voters' scorn. "The chief accomplishment of the current educated elite," wrote centrist David Brooks in The New York Times this week, "is that it has produced a bipartisan revolt against itself." Meanwhile, the centrists' warnings against the authoritarianism of the extremes look like a case of projection -- attributing your own shortcomings to others. It's slightly absurd for unelected and unaccountable European Union officials to criticize decisions of national electorates as undemocratic and to refuse to accept the results of national referendums and force revotes until the people get it right. As for freedom of speech, centrist governments in Britain, Sweden and Germany aggressively suppress reports of violence and crime by Muslim immigrants. Supposedly centrist colleges in the United States routinely suppress free speech, and their recent graduates hired by Silicon Valley firms -- Google, Facebook, Twitter -- are busy suppressing speech in the larger society. So if you're worried about extremists' authoritarianism, keep an eye on the centrists, too. COPYRIGHT 2018 CREATORS.COM
Almost half of hourly-wage employers will “offer the maximum hourly wage they feel their business can afford” this summer, up from just one-third of employers in 2017, says a survey of 1,000 employers by Snag, a job-advertising firm. Snag reported: With record low unemployment at 3.9 percent, employers are vying to stay competitive with more employers willing to offer the maximum hourly wage they feel their business can afford (46 percent in 2018 versus 31 percent in 2017) rather than the minimum required by law (12 percent in 2018 versus 18 percent in 2017). The pressure is also pushing three out of four employers to offer wages of $11 or more: A result of this is that 74 percent plan to pay an hourly wage of at least $11, compared to last year when only 53 percent of employers planned to pay the same or more. The report also noted that more employers are using the federal E-Verify system to screen illegal immigrants from jobs. The survey said that “nearly 40 percent of employers plan to use E-Verify to evaluate summer applicants, up from 25 percent last year.” “Given the current political environment and noise around immigration and non-citizenship status, employers are clearly being more cautious,” said Snag CEO Peter Harrison. The survey’s data suggests that millions of American voters are going to get pay raises during the summer before the election because of President Donald Trump’s lower-immigration/higher-wage policies. The rising wages help explain the escalating demands by CEOs and investors for a federal amnesty that would provide them with another influx of wage-cutting immigrant workers. These demands have turned into threats by donors and by GOP members who are elected in low-tech dairy districts. But many polls show the public overwhelmingly prefer immigration policies which bar companies from importing cheap foreign workers until Americans can get good jobs. The rising wages in Trump’s economy are a growing concern for Democratic planners. “It’s a very big concern,” Democratic pollster Celinda Lake, told TheHill. “The economy is the No. 1 issue out there for people, and right now Trump has a very aggressive economic message that seems to cross traditional party lines to voters.” The summer 2018 shift by employers comes after a small but significant rise in wages during 2017. The federal Bureau of Labor Statistics showed an after-inflation wage rise of roughly 1.8 percent during the year, marking a notable change after a decade of flat wages. “The U.S. average weekly wage increased 3.9 percent over the year, growing to $1,109 in the fourth quarter of 2017,” the BLS reported, which also showed wage shifts in various states, including Wisconsin and Indiana. Wages continued to rise in the first few months of 2018, said a May 30 report by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland: Many firms responded to talent shortages by increasing wages as well as the generosity of their compensation packages. In the aggregate, however, wage increases remained modest in most Districts. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, men’s wages have not risen since 1974, so just a few years of slowly rising wages would be a major improvement. Rising optimism suggests that more Americans will start switching jobs during 2018 to extract raises from rival companies. “Sixty-seven percent of Americans believe that now is a good time to find a quality job in the U.S., the highest percentage in 17 years of Gallup polling,” Gallup reported May 21. Amid the wage rises, Snag also reported that employers are also providing more benefits: “Snag’s survey showed employers are offering more full-time opportunities, health care and PTO benefits. This is consistent with what hourly workers want.” The competition for workers is also prompting some employers to extend overtime hours, ensuring higher wages. “We’re thrilled to see nearly all employers are adding extra shifts this summer on top of hiring more hourly workers,” said Harrison. He added: This is doubly good news because it likely indicates that current employees are getting more hours … Wage growth is super important but on its own [is] not enough to combat the staggering underemployment that still persists in America. But companies are also trying control their costs by hiring more “on-demand” workers for specific tasks, said Snag. “There has also been a giant surge in interest for on-demand workers with 81 percent of employers planning to utilize on-demand workers within the next 12 months, up from 62 percent last year and 31 percent year-over-year,” it reported. On-demand workers are provided by companies such as Uber, Lyft, Handy and Mechanical Turk, which is owned by Amazon. Congress sent 400,000 extra workers to employers via asylum loopholes in 2017. That extra labor supply will help suppress wages for blue-collar Americans for a while, as upper-income progressives focus on rights and racial differences. https://t.co/xIp3MFx9EZ — Neil Munro (@NeilMunroDC) May 30, 2018 Amid the wage raises, companies are working harder to fill jobs earlier. Snag reported that “more than a third (38 percent) of employers have already completed their hiring as of the end of April, compared to 27 percent in 2017.” Company owners are more optimistic about their ability to find workers, despite complaints from many employees seeking federal approval to import foreign workers. According to Snag’s report: 95 percent of employers are adding more shifts this summer compared to last year … Even with low unemployment, employers aren’t worried about getting enough applications this year. In fact, 60 percent anticipate getting more summer applicants than last year. Trump’s efforts to limit legal and illegal immigration is driving up wages and salaries for Americans in various locations and careers around the country. The beneficiaries include African-American bakers in Chicago, Latino restaurant workers in Monterey, Calif., disabled people in Missouri, high schoolers, resort workers in Hilton Head, construction workers, Superbowl workers, the garment industry, and workers at small businesses, and even Warren Buffett’s railroad workers. Four million Americans turn 18 each year and begin looking for good jobs in the free market. The Washington-imposed economic policy of economic growth via mass-immigration shifts wealth from young people towards older people, it floods the market with foreign labor, spikes profits and Wall Street values by cutting salaries for manual and skilled labor offered by blue-collar and white-collar employees. It also drives up real estate prices, widens wealth-gaps, reduces high-tech investment, increases state and local tax burdens, hurts kids’ schools and college education, pushes Americans away from high-tech careers, and sidelines at least 5 million marginalized Americans and their families, including many who are now struggling with opioid addictions.
April Ryan, a CNN contributor and reporter for American Urban Radio, sparred with White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders Thursday over President Trump’s $130,00 reimbursement to his personal lawyer Michael Cohen for a payment to Stormy Daniels, who alleges a sexual encounter with Trump. Ryan later commented on CNN that Sanders was “very street” in her reaction to the questioning. Ryan pressed Sanders on finding out about the reimbursement when Trump lawyer Rudy Giuiani revealed it on Fox Wednesday. The White House has previously said they were unaware of such a payment. "The White House press office wouldn’t coordinate with the president’s outside legal team on legal strategy," Sanders told Ryan Thursday. "You said yourself you were blindsided," Ryan pressed. "Well, I said it. But you were blindsided from what you said." "With all due respect, you actually don’t know much about me in terms of what I feel and what I don’t," Sanders said. "I think we’re done." "It was a moment. She took this personally and it was not a personal attack," Ryan said on CNN following the exchange. "She admitted at that podium just moments ago and I'm sure she's watching in her office, 'Hi, Sarah,' that she literally said at that podium that she heard Rudy Giuliani while we heard it." "She was watching, she found out all of the information while she was watching Fox last night,” Ryan emphasized. “So she was blindsided. This was not a personal attack on her. And for her to say something like, 'You don't know me' — that was very street." "I know there are street politics here but that was very street,” she emphasized. Ryan has repeatedly sparred with the Trump administration in the briefing room. She asked in April if President Trump has “thought about stepping down.” Following White House Chief of Staff John Kelly’s praise of Robert E. Lee as “an honorable man" in October, Ryan asked Sanders if the administration believed “slavery was wrong.” She also accused Sanders of using a stock photo of a pie in a Thanksgiving tweet, an accusation Sanders graciously responded to by baking Ryan a pie at a White House Christmas party.
WASHINGTON (AP) — When you weigh all life on Earth, billions of humans don't amount to much compared to trees, earthworms or even viruses. But we really know how to throw what little weight we have around, according to a first-of-its-kind global census of the footprint of life on the planet. Humans only add up to about one ten-thousandth of the life on Earth, measured by the dry weight of the carbon that makes up the structure of all living things, also known as biomass. The planet's real heavyweights are plants. They outweigh people by about 7,500 to 1, and make up more than 80 percent of the world's biomass, a study in Monday's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences said. Bacteria are nearly 13 percent of the world's biomass. Fungi — yeast, mold and mushrooms — make up about 2 percent. These estimates aren't very exact, the real numbers could be more or less, but they give a sense of proportion, said study lead author Ron Milo, a biologist at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel. "The fact that the biomass of fungi exceeds that of all animals sort of puts us in our place," said Harvard evolutionary biology professor James Hanken, who wasn't part of the study. Still, humans have an outsized influence on its more massive fellow creatures. Since civilization started, humans helped cut the total weight of plants by half and wild mammals by 85 percent, the study said. Now domesticated cattle and pigs outweigh all wild mammals by 14 to 1, while the world's chickens are triple the weight of all the wild birds. Instead of children's books about elephants and lions, a more honest representation of Earth's animals would be "a cow next to another cow, next to another cow next to a chicken," Milo said. Milo and colleagues took earlier research that looked at biomass for different types of life, combined them, factored in climate, geography and other environmental issues, to come up with a planetwide look at the scale of life on the planet. Taking water out of the equation and measuring only dry carbon makes it easier for scientists to compare species. About one-sixth the weight of a human is dry carbon. Humans are about two-thirds water. "Even though short in numbers, we have managed to throw a lot of sand in the air and mess up a lot of things," said noted Harvard biologist E.O. Wilson, who wasn't involved in the study. ___ Follow Seth Borenstein on Twitter: @borenbears . His work can be found here . ___ The Associated Press Health & Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content.
Folks, let’s be honest about a couple of things. One, how is the cancellation of a television show a presidential-level subject of conversation? Second, but now that it is; does watching Roseanne make me a bigot? The 2018 reboot of the show that garnered critical acclaim for its portrayal of a struggling working class family in the Rust Belt of America got off to solid ratings. It had been renewed for a second season—and liberal America was again perplexed. How could this happen? How could a sitcom about people we consider inferior in everyday do well? Who cares about them? And that’s the point: the Left’s hatred for anyone who isn’t like them goes beyond politics—they genuinely hate Middle America. That pent up rage is now spilling all over the airwaves after star Roseanne Barr tweeted horrible and racist remarks aimed at former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett. The show was cancelled within hours. So, there is definitely a bit of schadenfreude going on here—a “see, you people really are terrible” lecture from the most insufferable, condescending bastions of the country. A tortuous analysis of how country bumpkins, not MS-13, are the cancer of America. That is your everyday liberal. I’m not defending Roseanne. Comparing Jarrett to Planet of the Apes was terrible—and her show’s cancellation was not an unexpected consequence over fallouts from stuff like this. I’ve never watched Roseanne, but I do appreciate shows that show this slice of America. They’re popular. Last Man Standing and The Middle are a couple more shows showcasing life in rural America. Barr has been…off in terms of her views for a bit. This time she crossed the line. Now, to say Roseanne is the encapsulation of every Trump voter is pure unadulterated crap. Roseanne’s network wanted to showcase the average Trump voter. And that’s exactly what they got. — Molly Knight (@molly_knight) May 29, 2018 Molly Knight, who has written for The New York Timesmagazine and ESPN, tweeted, “Roseanne’s network wanted to showcase the average Trump voter. And that’s exactly what they got.” Culture writer Michaela Angela Davis was a guest commentator on CNN, where she flat out said all Trump voters are racist (via Free Beacon): Tens of millions of people voted for him after he showed his cards for years," Davis added. "Are you suggesting that they're racist?" Berman asked of those who voted for Trump. "Absolutely, yes. Yes," Davis said. "All of the people that voted for Donald Trump are racist?" Berman said in an effort to clarify. "Yes. They may not all be violently racist; they may not be– [Trump's] targeted; he's very clear and strategic. Anti-blackness is a strategy that has been the foundation of the American project," she said. Co-host Alisyn Camerota interrupted to warn about painting with too broad a brush. She suggested people can vote for a candidate without justifying everything about him, giving the example that many Democrats did as much with Bill Clinton. "Racism isn't broad," Davis responded. "What you're not hearing is there's so many different levels of racism and how it works itself out." Every Trump voter is Roseanne, but no immigrant is MS-13. — Razor (@hale_razor) May 30, 2018 This is what I love about this era right now. The far Left deals in these absolutes—and there is no moral ground to be fought for here, folks. It’s what politics is, and has been for decades, a fight club. We’re all in the gutter, the swamp. It’s who can be the most brutal. So, let’s go by Davis’ rules. All Democrats are rape apologists, and they nurture and protect abusers of women. Harvey Weinstein, now ex-NY Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, Al Franken, John Conyers, and Bill Clinton. All were accused of sexual misconduct, from groping to credible allegations of rape. And yet, the liberal media more or less turned a blind eye, only deciding to crucify them when the Me Too movement intensified. So, if you voted for Bill Clinton, you voted for that culture. And remember, Clinton won twice. And knowing what we know now about Bill Clinton, would he win a presidential election? Yes, I think he would—in a landslide. So, the Left can also quit the virtue signaling on this subject regarding Trump. And just so we’re clear, I know that there are Democrats who don’t support any of the horrible things Bill Clinton, Schneiderman, and Weinstein have done to women and I also know there are Democrats who don’t think all Trump voters are racists. Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) lives in Trump country, she warned her party that he could win, and they ignored her. But she’s also angered when she sees the elite media and others smear Trump voters as racist. She also offered warnings to her fellow party members not to be overconfident this election cycle. Dingell goes against the narrative, so she won’t be doing any television interviews. CNN’s Don Lemon took it a step further. If you watched Roseanne, you’re a bigot (via Washington Times): 20 million people who followed Roseanne. Why do they follow her? Because, in some way, they bought into her bigotry. And at least part of what she was selling is the bigotry, the racism, the homophobia, the conspiracy theories. That’s all part of Roseanne. And if you watched that show and you believed it, then you bought into it, and you’re part of that as well. Liberals think we need a lecture; we don’t. We don’t care about safe spaces, cry closets, neo-colonial tendencies, or the many ways in which rural voters are terrible, or how voting Republican is terrible. We don’t care. Leave us alone. At the same time, please call us deplorable. Please label us racist because it only makes us stronger. It only unifies our base, while pushing the Independent slice of the electorate away from you. You’re not as clever as you think you are, even with your B.A. in how to be a whiny little piss ant studies, and some within your ranks are seeing how these antics will lead to a second term for Trump. I’m a Korean-America, a person of color, and I proudly support this president. Admittedly, wasn’t a fan before, but he’s surprised me. He’s moved the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem proper, he’s serious about immigration, he’s passed a tax reform that’s reduced the financial burned for millions of working and middle class families, consumer and small business confidence is at record highs, and millions of workers have received bonuses from their employers thanks to a better job-creating and investing climate. He’s given the conservative wing of the party, some of which held doubts about him, close to everything they want—and we haven’t delved into his fight to reduce regulations. Planned Parenthood’s funding is going to be severely cut, and while we didn’t fully repeal Obamacare, the individual mandate is no more. Even Mitt Romney, believe him or not, is saying the Trump agenda pretty much mirrored what he would’ve done if he had won the 2012 election. Yes, I came around, and the liberal media’s idiocy and the insufferable nature of progressives made that decision all the more easier. Two things: Trump 2020—but first we have to win these midterms. And even there, the Democratic enthusiasm seems to have flatlined.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. The Benson and Harf Show on FOX News Talk! NOGO! President Trump on Thursday canceled the highly anticipated summit with North Korea that had been set for next month, calling the talks "inappropriate" following the "hostility" displayed in the latest comments from dictator Kim Jong Un. The move to pull out of the summit, slated to take place in Singapore on June 12, came after threats from Kim to call off the talks. In a letter to Kim on Thursday, Trump said the world, and North Korea, had lost a "great opportunity for lasting peace and great prosperity." "Based on the tremendous anger and open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting," Trump wrote in a letter to Kim on Thursday. "Therefore, please let this letter serve to represent that the Singapore summit, for the good of both parties, but to the detriment of the world, will not take place." Marie gets the latest from White House Correspondent John Roberts & Congressman Jim Himes (D-CT) weighs in. Meetings Upon Meetings! White House lawyer Emmet Flood attended the start of two classified Justice Department briefings with lawmakers on a confidential intelligence source, adding to Democratic concerns that White House staff were taking part in the briefings on classified information that was related to the Russia investigation. Flood and White House chief of staff John Kelly attended the start of the briefings before leaving. Their attendance was just one of the many twists that accompanied the remarkable back-to-back briefings between senior Trump administration officials and two different groups of lawmakers. FOX's Senior Capitol Hill Producer, Chad Pergram breaks it all down. Say What? President Trump, in an exclusive interview with Fox News, said he believes NFL owners "did the right thing" by instituting a new policy mandating players and personnel stand for the national anthem or face a fine. "You have to stand proudly for the national anthem and the NFL owners did the right thing with that if that's what they've done," Trump told "Fox & Friends'" Brian Kilmeade in an interview aired Thursday. Trump credited the fans for pushing the NFL, while blasting players who don't stand and even suggesting they shouldn't be in the country. "I don't think people should be staying in the locker rooms, but still I think it's good. You have to stand proudly for the national anthem. You shouldn't be playing, you shouldn't be there. Maybe they shouldn't be in the country," Trump said. Marie & Kat take it to the calls. Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Benson and Harf Show LIVE Monday through Friday 6-8 pm Eastern! Find out more at BensonAndHarf.com
The chief economic propagandist for the New York Times, Paul Krugman, recently asked in his “Wonkish” opinion column: “The thing is, the Fed and other Central Banks still basically operate with an [incorrect inflation] framework. When will THEY adapt to reality?” The far better question is: “When will KRUGMAN adapt to reality?” This reality is that inflation is and always has been driven by money creation … not only by the Fed and other Central Banks … but even more so by the Big Banks in the US and around the world. As fellow Economics Nobel Laureate, Milton Friedman, powerfully stated in his book Money Mischief: “Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon in the sense that it is and can be produced only by a more rapid increase in the quantity of money than in output.” Australian “do tank” LibertyWorks went even further in their landmark submission in mid-2017 to my former boss Senator Malcolm Roberts. At the time, the Senator was the chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Lending to Primary Production Customers. The submission highlighted: the legal “pyramid scheme” worldwide which is “established and maintained by” Big Government which in turn “grants uneconomic and unethical power to not just” the Australian Central Bank “to print unsound money but to” the Big Australian Banks as well “to lend yet more unsound money”. In other words, inflation is a monetary and financial phenomenon caused by a Big Government system of Central Bank money creation and Big Banks credit creation. The money creation process is, more or less, just ‘printing’ money. The credit creation process is, more or less, just ‘printing’ credit through accounting adjustments. Many, but not all, economists and finance professionals are aware of this money process. Some, but not many, economists and finance professionals are aware of this credit process. The standard textbook narrative on bank loans usually goes something like this as per a mid-2016 newspaper article entitled Banks as Financial Intermediaries: “Financial intermediation is the process performed by banks of taking in funds from a depositor and then lending them out to a borrower. As such, [banks] channel funds from people who have extra money or surplus savings to those who do not have enough money to carry out a desired activity.” “[In so doing, banks] lend out money at slightly high rates of interest while receiving money on deposit at relatively low rates of interest. Through [this] process of financial intermediation, certain assets or liabilities are transformed into different assets or liabilities.” To put it another way, banks are only efficiently matching savings and investment and doing so according to normal business accounting conventions and at a reasonable return. Nothing could be further from “the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth” (noting the Ravi Zacharias quote at the end of my recent Marvel Infinity War article.) As stated in in the LibertyWorks submission: Money and credit are mostly created through “fractional reserve banking” (FRB). FRB in effect allows for “approximately $9 extra” to be “created by” the Big Banks “out of ‘thin air’ for every $1 created by” the Central Bank and/or savings. This arises “as a result of government failure not of market failure – ie government control over market freedom”. In particular, FRB “primarily emanates from a plethora of” Big Government “legislation/regulation especially that to establish and/or maintain an exclusive”: “A) monopoly on currency-based money by the” Central Bank “not properly backed by sound money”; “B) license to create credit-based money” by the Big Banks “not properly backed by deposit assets”; and “C) situation for the cartelisation of the banking industry by” the Big Banks. But don’t take “the word” of free market groups like LibertyWorks or of Austrian School economists like me. Instead, look to what the world’s oldest Central Bank of the Bank of England (BoE) wrote in two (very surprisingly) transparent and honest (yet statism apologetic and economically naïve) papers in 2014: Money in the Modern Economy; and Money Creation in the Modern Economy. The former is largely a high level introduction to the latter. The key highlights from Money in the Modern Economy are: “There are three main types of money: currency, bank deposits and central bank reserves. Each represents an IOU from one sector of the economy to another. Most money in the modern economy is in the form of bank deposits, which are created by banks themselves.” “Currency only accounts for a very small amount of the money held by people and firms in the economy. The rest consists of deposits with banks, as shown in Chart 1.” (Source. Chart on page 11.) The more significant and detailed paper is Money Creation in the Modern Economy. The key highlights are: “Money creation in practice differs from some popular misconceptions — banks do not act simply as intermediaries, lending out deposits that savers place with them. The reality of how money is created today differs from the description found in some economics textbooks. Rather than banks receiving deposits when households save and then lending them out, bank lending creates deposits.” “Of the two types of broad money, bank deposits make up the vast majority — 97% of the amount currently in circulation. For this reason, some economists have referred to bank deposits as ‘fountain pen money’, created at the stroke of bankers’ pens when they approve loans. This process is illustrated in Figure 1.” (Source.) In conclusion, inflation is caused by Central Bank money ‘printing’ (MP) and effected by Big Bank credit ‘printing’ (CP) through fractional reserve banking (FRB). Such overall money inflation (MI) generally leads to prices inflation (PI), which in turn generally facilitates government inflation (GI). MI mainly works through the demand-side for goods and services by increasing demand and thus creating PI. GI, such as greater taxation, expenditure and regulation, mainly works through the supply-side for goods and services by decreasing supply and thus makes PI worse. In short, the following “vicious circle” of Big Government and Crony Capitalism is made: FRB => MP + CP => MI + GI => PI. However, the Big Banks credit creation ‘sausage’ (through FRB) could not exist but for Central Banks like the Bank of England, Reserve Bank of Australia and the Fed. For as Vladimir Lenin once said:
WASHINGTON — Former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe drafted a memo on circumstances leading up to the firing of his onetime boss, James Comey, a person familiar with the situation said Wednesday night. The person spoke on condition of anonymity to The Associated Press to discuss a secret document that has been turned over to special counsel Robert Mueller. His team is investigating whether the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia during the 2016 presidential election and whether the president sought to obstruct that inquiry through actions including the firing of Comey last May. The memo concerns a conversation that McCabe had with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein about Rosenstein’s preparations for Comey’s firing. Rosenstein played an important role in that episode, having authored a memo faulting Comey for his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation that the White House held up as justification for President Donald Trump’s decision to fire the FBI director. Rosenstein has said he wrote a memo laying out his concerns with Comey after learning that the White House intended to fire him. According to McCabe’s memo, Rosenstein indicated to him that he was initially asked to reference the Russia investigation in his own memo on Comey. But the final version didn’t include discussion of Russia and focused instead on the Clinton email case. Rosenstein appointed Mueller special counsel one week after Comey was fired. He has said he would recuse himself if necessary if his actions became relevant to Mueller’s investigation. The AP reported in March that McCabe had drafted multiple memos, including about his interactions with Trump. Comey also drafted a series of memos about his own encounters with Trump that unnerved him. The New York Times first reported on the content of this particular memo. McCabe became FBI acting director following Comey’s firing last May. He was fired as deputy director in March, just days before his scheduled retirement, amid an inspector general finding that he had misled internal investigators about his role in an October 2016 disclosure to The Wall Street Journal.
As they should, New York City mayors come to the job with different ideas about how best to do it. Ed Koch and Rudy Giuliani started by being control freaks about details until they learned the nuts and bolts of the sprawling bureaucracy. From the start, David Dinkins and Michael Bloomberg were more comfortable delegating power to their aides. Bloomberg captured this approach with his expletive warning to new hires: “Don’t f–k it up!” But in Bill de Blasio, City Hall has a tenant unlike any in recent times: A mayor so disengaged that if he were in the military, he would be arrested for going AWOL. De Blasio doesn’t have a style of management because he doesn’t seem to know or care about management. His idea of doing the job is giving speeches, writing blank checks to spendthrift commissioners and leaving town for national political events. He also goes to the gym, takes naps and bitches endlessly about the media to aides and private consultants. The price of his indifference to substance is coming due. The Post report Tuesday that the city is late with its payments to 80 percent of private vendors shows the impact of an absentee leader. The payment delays sometimes run for a year or more, which is especially painful for nonprofit social-service providers, including those that operate city shelters. The Comptroller’s Office says the Department of Homeless Services and the Human Resources Administration were late with payments 100 percent of the time in fiscal 2017. Think about that: They miss their deadlines on every contract they sign! That’s consistency, de Blasio style. The problem is that City Hall can’t cut through its own bureaucracy. After agreeing to terms with a vendor, including a start date and price, officials circulate the contract among as many as five different city agencies for approval, including budget and legal. There are no deadlines or transparency into the black hole of multi-layer review. see also De Blasio administration chronically late paying for homeless services The de Blasio administration is a deadbeat when it comes... After that process, the contract goes to Comptroller Scott Stringer, who has 30 days to approve or deny it. Approval triggers the flow of agreed-upon dollars. De Blasio’s abysmal record of being late with payments means vendors are working before the contract has been approved by the comptroller, meaning they can’t be paid. If the delays are long, many nonprofits end up taking out loans, which raises their costs. The issue is hardly sexy — or new. Koch, in his 1984 book, “Mayor,” told the story of a vendor who complained that the city was so routinely slow in paying him that he and others padded their bills to make up for the delays. Koch, eager to save taxpayer money, ordered a study to see how many payments were late. It found over half went beyond the standard 30 days, and some were 18 months late. Furious, he seized on a Kochian solution: public embarrassment. He gave agency heads three months to shape up, then started releasing the names of commissioners who were habitually late with payments. “It worked,” he wrote, saying the city soon was paying 85 percent of its bills in 30 days and getting a cash discount for doing so. Koch added, “A little competition is always healthy.” The NYPD’s CompStat, which started under Giuliani, is another version of embarrassing managers and creating competition, this time with the aim of solving and preventing crime. In fact, there are an almost endless number of techniques and tricks to fix things that are broken — if the mayor cares. If. But look at The Post report last week on thousands of syringes being found in city parks, and later stories about junkies shooting up in broad daylight. The city’s answer: deposit boxes for used syringes and medically supervised spots for shooting up. This isn’t compassion or leadership. These are snapshots of a city surrendering to decline. Alas, indifference is apparently a de Blasio family habit. The New York Times reports that the mayor’s wife, Chirlane McCray, is effectively a no-show as head of the Mayor’s Fund, New York’s official philanthropic organization. The paper reports that McCray has attended fewer than half of its board meetings since becoming chair and that donor contributions, used to augment city services, are the lowest they have been in a decade. Meanwhile, the fund has new, larger offices and costs have soared by 50 percent. McCray has her own office, but hasn’t set foot in it for a year, the Times reports. As every mayor learns, managing New York is difficult even when you have the best of intentions, boundless energy and a talented team. But there are no possible solutions when the people in charge don’t care enough even to show up. Hill fans go the extra vile My column on how lucky America was to avoid a Hillary Clinton presidency brought the usual leftist insults about my supposed gay relationship with President Trump and wishes that I meet a painful end. see also A President Clinton would have made things much worse To put the roller-coaster presidency of Donald Trump in perspective,... As reader W. Snyder put it, “Please kill yourself so no one will have to read your racist remarks again. Die soon.” Yet I was struck by how many critical letters were simply personal attacks on Trump. Often, it was pure, blind hate that echoed the campaign of 2016, and we know how that turned out. “This moron has not only ruined our democracy and disgraced our nation, he is a compulsive liar and a criminal,” wrote Kevin Kelley. A reader named Charlene said, “This president is a nightmare. The whole nation is falling apart.” Rebecca Brown says, “He is a liar that is trying to change our democracy into an authoritative state.” And Scott Aichinger says Trump has a “dehumanizing and anti-American presidency.” Trump supporters were well represented, too, and reader Mark Mickley best captured their values. He writes, “A ton of us out here in middle America think Trump’s doing a damn good job and we could care less who he’s slept with or that he’s a bully with bad table manners. “We just want results. He gets results.” High-tax states, get out of dodge Well, that was fast — and predictable. The IRS is warning high-tax states like New York, New Jersey and Connecticut that laws crafted to avoid federal tax changes won’t pass muster, The Wall Street Journal reports. The states are trying to circumvent the $10,000 limit on deductions for state and local taxes that is part of the new federal code. Some officials, including Gov. Cuomo, aimed to create a workaround where taxpayers would pay local taxes to charitable entities to reduce their federal taxes. IRS rejection was a given, yet Cuomo and other Dems wanted to pretend they were fighting for taxpayers even as they gouge them with sky-high state levies. Instead of playing games, they ought to cut those taxes — or prepare to get run over by higher-income families stampeding for the exits. S’more nonsense Headline . . . Government warning: Do Not Try To Roast Marshmallows Over Erupting Hawaii Volcano . . . Your tax dollars at work.
Three months after a South Carolina woman made headlines for gouging her eyes out while in a drug-induced high said she was starting to “feel” like herself again. Kaylee Muthart, 20, of Anderson, S.C., told People she was adapting to her new life following the incident. “I actually feel like a person. I feel like myself, and I don’t feel like I’m chasing something,” she said. “It, actually, feels really nice. The way it worked out is the way God had it work out, that’s just the way it is… but I’d rather for it to have happened than to still be stuck in that world.” On Feb. 6, 2018, churchgoers in Anderson County were terrified after they witnessed Muthart removing her eyeballs. At the time of the incident, she said she was hallucinating from a large dose of meth. Muthart recalled that she thought “someone had to sacrifice something important to the world, and that person was me.” SOUTH CAROLINA BABY GIRL FOUND DEAD IN DIAPER BOX, POLICE SAY; MOM WHO REPORTED KIDNAPPING IS IN CUSTODY “I thought everything would end abruptly, and everyone would die, if I didn't tear out my eyes immediately,” she told Cosmopolitan. ”I don't know how I came to that conclusion, but I felt it was, without doubt, the right, rational thing to do immediately.” Muthart said the man she had been staying with, who she did not identify but said had a biblical name, was driving by and asked her a question. She said she felt that the encounter was her sign. What happened next has left Muthart blind. WARNING: Details below contain graphic material “So I pushed my thumb, pointer, and middle finger into each eye. I gripped each eyeball, twisted, and pulled until each eye popped out of the socket — it felt like a massive struggle, the hardest thing I ever had to do,” she said. “Because I could no longer see, I don't know if there was blood. But I know the drugs numbed the pain. I'm pretty sure I would have tried to claw right into my brain if a pastor hadn't heard me screaming, ‘I want to see the light!’ — which I don't recall saying — and restrained me.” She continued: “He later said, when he found me, that I was holding my eyeballs in my hands. I had squished them, although they were somehow still attached to my head.” Muthart said she went from scoring straight-As in school to doing meth and ecstasy on a regular basis. She said she studied the Bible while high. “While on ecstasy, I studied the Bible,” Muthart said. “I misinterpreted a lot of it. I convinced myself that meth would bring me even closer to God.” Her mother, Katy Tompkins, tried to intervene and even recorded a phone conversation between the two of them to get a court order that would force her daughter into a rehab center before the incident. Muthart said she underwent emergency to “clean her empty orbital sockets” but was now home and recovering. She told People she is about to begin a three-week rehabilitation course to help her with her mobility skills. She is also scheduled to undergo surgery on July 3 that would prepare her to have prosthetic eyes. MOTHER OF BABY GIRL FOUND DEAD IN A DIAPER BOX FACES CHARGES “I’m a very optimistic person, and I went in with an optimistic outlook — but at some points, you’re going to fall down,” Muthart told People. “That’s just life.” She said she has started learning to play the guitar and piano and has strayed away from drugs. She hopes to attend college and study marine biology. “There’s definitely something inside of me that wants to say, ‘Well, what else can I do now that I’m blind?’” she said. “But something just cries out deep inside of me, ‘Go for your goal. Do what you’ve always wanted to do. Show everybody that you can do it.’”
The cops who got caught on video during a violent scuffle with a young woman on a New Jersey beach have been taken off the street pending a probe into their actions, officials said Sunday. The Wildwood (N.J.) Police Department also revealed that Emily Weinman, 20, of Philadelphia, was slapped with multiple charges — including two counts of aggravated assault on an officer and being a minor in possession of alcohol — in the incident. A 54-second video clip posted online shows one of the cops punching Weinman in the head, then flipping her over with his forearm across her neck before she was subdued with the help of another cop. A third cop also kept onlookers at bay. By late Sunday afternoon, the video had been viewed about 2 million times since being posted on Twitter by user @HewittLexy, who said she recorded the melee on Wildwood beach at 4:11 p.m. Saturday. “An Internal Affairs Investigation was immediately initiated into this matter and the involved officers have been reassigned to administrative duty pending the outcome of a full and thorough investigation,” the Wildwood PD said in a statement posted on Facebook. “While Chief [Robert Regalbuto] finds this video to be alarming, he does not want to rush to any judgment until having the final results of the investigation.”
President Trump is taking effective action to lower prescription drug prices and to improve the American health-care delivery system, Medicare and Medicaid Administrator Seema Verma told me recently in an exclusive on-camera interview for Fox News. The president is “not afraid of special interests,” Verma said. Verma emphasized the importance of drug innovation and said that the pharmaceutical industry has done a fantastic job with bringing lifesaving treatments that have made folks healthier. “But innovation doesn’t mean anything if folks can’t afford their medications,” Verma said. Appointed to head the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in March 2017, Verma has a long history in the health policy world – most notably as an adviser to Indiana Governors Mitch Daniels and Mike Pence (now vice president) as the architect for Medicaid reform in their state. Verma is working with Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Scott Gottlieb and their boss, Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, as a capable cadre charged with putting teeth into the president’s drug price-lowering project. A big step in this direction is a reform to what is known as the drug dashboard, a tool to allow Medicare and Medicaid patients to know the cost of their prescription drugs. “The drug dashboard is a transparency tool,” Verma told me. “It's an opportunity for patients and the public to see what's going on with drug prices. We've gone from having 70 drugs on that dashboard to now we have 3,000 drugs. You can see the price increases year over year from 2012 to 2016 and you can see which manufacturers.” Now someone insured by Medicare or a disabled or impoverished person can finally get to see the yearly list price increases for almost every drug that he or she is taking. Basic drugs that treat diabetes and high cholesterol showed large price increases in 2016. Zyrtec, a common allergy medication, increased in price almost 20 percent as did Enbrel, an important arthritis and psoriasis medicine. In 2016, Enbrel cost a whopping $2,741 per patient every month – almost $33,000 per year before insurance payments. A friend of mine who has taken weekly injections of Enbrel for more than a decade for psoriatic arthritis was disturbed by the big increase in price when he reached 65 and changed from private insurance to Medicare Part D. His out-of-pocket cost for Enbrel last year under Medicare was just over $5,500. What to do? Of course, knowing the list prices and which manufacturers are price-gouging is only the first step. If middle managers step in and negotiate the prices down for you, they have historically kept the profits to themselves and passed the rest of the cost on to consumers. Verma told me that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services are beginning to change all that. She said that last year the centers made some essential changes to their hospital program. “The hospitals were getting discounts and they essentially were not passing these discounts to seniors,” Verma said. “So we changed the rules and this year alone, our seniors are going to be saving $320 million.” Verma said that CMS is hiring negotiators to strengthen its negotiating power and increase competition to lower prices for seniors. Over at the Food and Drug Administration, Commissioner Gottlieb is complementing this work by approving more generic drugs and biosimilars rather than making generic drug manufacturers redo expensive research that the brand-name drug companies performed initially. This leads to cheaper options, which also bring down prices through competition. When President Trump released his prescription drug price lowering proposal, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., immediately attacked it, saying in a statement: “The President’s proposals are yet another giveaway to Big Pharma, and do nothing to hold wealthy drug companies accountable for their unconscionable price gouging.” It would seem that Pelosi is wrong, as Verma, Gottlieb and Secretary Azar are proving. The path is simple and straightforward. Our seniors and our poor and disabled are our must vulnerable populations. They are the right place to start. First, patients need to know what drugs are costing, and whether or not they are paying for them directly. Next, these costs need to be negotiated down with the introduction of more competition or choice. Finally, the government is correct to forcibly decrease the amount seniors have to pay out of pocket and stop the middle managers from gouging them. Seema Verma is helping to put flesh on the bones of what she calls President Trump’s “bold” initiative. We should applaud her efforts.
A New York state school district is considering a student proposal to do away with homework assignments after receiving a petition started by a few elementary school students. The school district in Rockland County is considering a proposal from two fifth-grade students who began a petition to ban homework because of the stress it causes students, NBC New York reported. “I got stressed by homework a lot, so I just — it took me a minute of thinking — I want to get rid of homework,” Niko Keelie, a fifth-grade student at Farley Elementary School in Stony Point, New York, said. The district listened to the students’ concerns and is actively discussing whether to change its homework policies. The assistant superintendent for the school district, Kris Felicello, said that while the district does want to present the change as a “ban” on homework, they are hoping to change the current homework policies by the start of the next school year. “I hope that kids would go home and they would read and they would discover things that they’re interested in doing, and go on YouTube and figure out how to play the ukulele, or go and research what’s going on with Space X, or talk to their friends or get outside and play,” Felicello said. The district is reviewing several proposals, including one that would leave it up to the parents to ask the teachers to give homework to their children, the Associated Press reported. Calls to ban homework in schools have surfaced around the world. In 2015, a school in the United Kingdom proposed banning homework to keep its students from getting depressed.
When Nicholas Papich graduated high school, he decided to leave his mom’s house and move in with his dad. Eleven years on — aside from a 12-month period when he worked as a model in Miami — the cozy arrangement still stands. The 29-year-old lives rent-free with his father, Anton, and there are no signs of finding a place of his own. “I feel like when he turns 30, I’m going to have to take a stand,” says Anton, 64, of Brooklyn. “Nick is clearly a late bloomer but we have gotten to the point where he needs a push.” According to the latest US census data, one-third of adults ages 18 to 34 live at home with their parents. Some 15 percent of 25- to 35-year-old millennials are in that category, compared to 10 percent of Generation Xers who hadn’t flown the nest by the same age back in 2000. It’s a growing phenomenon that, when things go wrong, can lead to embarrassing headlines. Last week, Mark and Christina Rotondo, of upstate Camillus, NY, got international attention when they won the legal right to evict their layabout son, Michael, 30. He has lived in their home for the past eight years. Evicting Nicholas is too drastic a measure for Anton, but his son’s constant presence has given him pause. The photographer recently collaborated on an ironic book: “Get a F–king Job!,” which pokes fun at the trend of lazy millennials outstaying their welcome at home. “[Moving out] is the next logical step for Nick but it hasn’t happened,” says Anton. “I asked him outright, ‘What if I died? What would you do?’ And he just replied, ‘That’s ridiculous. You have the body of a 45-year-old.’ “He just doesn’t get it.” Meanwhile, Nicholas, a part-time criminology student, who does occasional shifts as an Uber driver, is quick to justify his living situation. “It’s a different world than it used to be,” he says. “The problem is that the cost of living is constantly going up and earnings are going down. Most of my friends around this age group live with their parents. It’s just too expensive to afford rent. “I understand why my dad is concerned — I’m almost 30 and I guess I should be on my own by now — but the reality is that everything costs too much.” Nicholas’ lament is familiar to licensed marriage and family therapist Allen Wagner, who counsels individuals in similar situations. The Los Angeles-based professional “sees this phenomenon a lot,” in which a kid’s failure to launch takes its toll on the entire household. “Sadly, the parents are often partly to blame because they’ve enabled their kid to become so entitled,” he says. “I call it ‘learned helplessness,’ and it’s increasingly common.” ‘We have gotten to the point where he needs a push.’ Although it’s fine to live with your parents temporarily while you lick your wounds over something like a divorce, sickness or job loss, it’s another thing when the months turn into years — or even decades. “Some kids are totally reliant on their parents and don’t know how to become adults,” says Wagner. “My definition of a grown-up is an independent person who supports themselves. But these are people in their 20s, 30s and 40s who can’t afford rent, don’t feed themselves or pay for their own health insurance.” He believes tough-love measures such as kicking them out without notice are too cruel. Instead, the family needs to implement a multistage plan to wean the child and have them fly the nest. “Parents can say: ‘We’re willing to give you six months, but after that, you are out.’ During those months, they can help motivate the child to find a job, quit wasting time watching TV or doing social media, and face the real challenges of adulthood.” Pure economic necessity is the reason why both Lucky Fischer, 26, and Kristina Koller, 23, recently returned to their parents’ homes in Philadelphia and Yorktown Heights, NY, respectively. Fischer, who works with the mentally handicapped, has been crashing on his mother’s couch since late 2017. He left an apartment he shared with roommates in order to save $300-a-month rent and put aside cash for his dream of moving permanently to New York City and becoming a publicist. “There’s not much privacy,” says Fischer, who lodges with his mom, Deborah Bell, 53, and sisters Syyana, 25, and 16-year-old Salimatu. “And my stuff is spread out all over the house.” But his biggest headache is having to wait in line for the one bathroom he shares with three women. “It’s a case of sucking it up, because I have a long-term goal in sight,” he says. “I know it will be worth it in the end.” In an ideal world, he’ll remain at home only for the next six months. He will try to pay off at least some of his $34,000 student loan debt, while saving for the deposit on a rental in New York for 2019. Meanwhile, Koller, a jazz singer, sublet her shared $1,100-a-month apartment in Astoria four months ago and now lives rent-free with her parents, Steve, 57, and Laura, 60, in Westchester. She had been feeling the pinch because she needs to pay her musicians no matter how many people show up to each gig. She is now holed up in her old bedroom, which is still adorned with posters of her childhood heroes, including John Mayer and Amy Winehouse. “The pros are that I sleep a lot better here because it’s so much quieter, there’s a lot more space and I’m saving money,” she says. “The cons are there is not as much to do here as in the city and my mom likes watching shows like ‘Vanderpump Rules.’” Koller has also found that living at home tends to put off guys she meets while online dating. “Some men think it’s uncool that I’ve moved back home,” she says. “But that’s their problem, not mine.” Mom Laura has just two issues with her daughter’s return: her untidiness — “she leaves her makeup everywhere” — plus, concerns about her staying out late and driving at night. “I can’t sleep until I know she is safely home,” Laura says. Luckily, since the family is close, any problems arising from the new living arrangements can be brought up in open conversation and not swept under the rug. “We are friends as well as family,” says Laura. Still, she is glad Kristina’s stay won’t be forever. “We’ll support her for as long as she needs, but this isn’t a permanent solution,” Laura says. “She’s already getting itchy feet and won’t be here long term.” How to kick them out of the house: Parents shouldn’t have to take their kids to court to get them to leave the nest — or, at least, behave while they’re there. Here’s how to create a successful exit strategy. Set a clear timeline To keep children from staying stuck rather than striking out on their own, make it clear from the start that the arrangement is temporary, Vienna Pharaon, a therapist at Mindful Marriage and Family Therapy in Midtown, tells The Post. Determine who does what Before adult children come home, they and their parents need to discuss how they’ll divvy up household responsibilities. “Parents need to be able to see their child as an adult,” says Pharaon. Enforce rules and curfews “The home environment is not an equal one,” says marriage and family therapist Allen Wagner. Parents should be the boss and must remain committed to the long-term plan. “It should never be good cop, bad cop,” he says. Cut off their finances “Stop funding your child’s entitled lifestyle by no longer providing them with cash or credit cards,” says Wagner. “They need to learn responsibility and to stand on their own feet financially.” Be prepared for pushback “Stick to your resolve, even when the child doubles down and gives you the silent treatment,” says Wagner. “It’s emotional manipulation and you have to ignore it.” Even though your kid might hate you at the moment, they are still family and love you deep down. — Christian Gollayan and Jane Ridley
DUBLIN, Ohio — The timing was too perfect to resist for Rory McIlroy. McIlroy was in mid-conversation with reporters during his pre-tournament press conference Wednesday in advance of The Memorial, which begins on Thursday at Muirfield, when he was asked about the pressures of being the No. 1 ranked player in the world. As he began to answer the question, he noticed Justin Thomas — who’s currently No. 1 — standing in the back of the room. “I think it’s really hard to try and play as a world No. 1,” McIlroy said with a grin. “I think it’s really difficult. I mean you’ve got so much pressure on your shoulders. There’s a bull’s-eye on your back, it’s just really tough.” Thomas is merely in his 18th day as the top-ranked player in the world, having taken it from Dustin Johnson after the final round of The Players Championship. The Memorial, in fact, is his first tournament as No. 1, and Thomas is relishing his time at the top. “I enjoyed it for a couple days when I had the two weeks off, but after that it was over with,” Thomas said. “I wasn’t really thinking about it. It’s odd because nothing comes with it. Like when you win a tournament, you win, you get a trophy, you get a lot of money, you do a press conference afterwards. I think I was in the middle of flying home (from The Players) when DJ finished and I had been told (he was No. 1). “I ended up staying up late enough to where I waited to refresh it (on the computer) and saw it and it was pretty cool.” Asked if he took a screen shot of it, Thomas nodded and said, “Of course. Why wouldn’t you?” “Seeing every other golfer in the world behind my name was a pretty fun thing,” he said. Thomas, earnest and open, does not come across as the kind of player who’s going to coast as No. 1. When he addressed the possibility of reaching No. 1 at The Players, the first thought from Thomas was how important it would be for him to maintain that lofty status. The volatility at the top of the rankings is real and Thomas knows he’ll need to remain on form to stay No. 1. That, of course, begins with this week at Memorial, where eight of the top-10 ranked players in the world are playing. “This field is always extremely strong and there’s a lot of great players that I’m going to need to play well to have a chance to win this week,” Thomas said. Johnson, who held the No. 1 ranking for 64 consecutive weeks before Thomas unseated him at The Players, called reclaiming the top spot “something that is going to motivate me to work harder and get my game back into the form that I think it should be in.” “I definitely would like to get back there just as much as I wanted to get there the first time,” Johnson said. “I think we’re headed in the right direction. The golf game feels really good right now and obviously got a few big weeks coming up here.” Asked if he was “bummed out” when he was overtaken by Thomas, Johnson said, “No, I wasn’t. He’s been playing very well and obviously he’s been playing a little bit better than me, so he deserved to pass me.” Thomas, who has 9.10 points at No. 1, has a scant lead at the top. He can be overtaken this week by either Johnson, who has 8.90 points at No. 2, Justin Rose, who has 8.39 at No. 3, or Jordan Spieth, who has 7.89 at No. 5. How long Thomas remains ahead of the pack is all up to him. “I’m worried about hitting my tee shot on No. 10 at the Memorial first,” Thomas said. Good answer.
The Show Me State looks poised to show right-to-work advocates a victory in 2017, with New Hampshire close behind. The Missouri House passed HB 91, which prevents forced unionism, by a vote of 100-59 on Thursday and the Senate is expected to pass the legislation next week. Republican Gov. Eric Greitens, elected in November 2016 and sworn in Jan. 9, has said he’ll sign it once it reaches his desk. “We’re pretty confident this year,” Greg Mourad, vice president of the National Right to Work Committee, told Watchdog.org. “I do expect it to pass.” If that all comes to fruition, Missouri will become the 28th right-to-work state, after Kentucky enacted a similar measure earlier this month. Indiana, Michigan, West Virginia and Wisconsin have also passed right-to-work laws in the past five years. Right-to-work laws prevent workers from having to join a union or pay union dues as a condition of employment. It’s been a decade-long battle in Missouri, where the Republican majority in the legislature debated the issue but never had the votes required to override the veto of Democratic Gov. Jay Nixon. The Missouri Legislature finally passed a bill in 2015, but Nixon vetoed it. First elected in 2008 and re-elected in 2012, Nixon was term limited out of office. Former House Speaker Tim Jones, now the head of conservative nonprofit Missouri Club for Growth, told Washington Examiner that “leadership is of the thinking that the faster, the better. Everyone has already taken a position on this and we haven’t had enough turnover in the legislature to think it will be any different this time.” Now that Republicans have control of the governor’s office, it seems to be only a matter of time. “It’s a good thing for the people of Missouri,” Mourad said. “Certainly, it’s going to spur economic development in the state.” Of the eight states that border Missouri, only Illinois lacks a right-to-work law. Studies have shown that states that don’t have forced unionism tend to attract more business and industry — and keep the ones they’ve already got. For example, the Heritage Foundation found that unionized firms were 10 percentage points more likely to go out of businesses within seven years than those that weren’t unionized. National Economic Research Associates reported in 2015 that right-to-work laws can have a major impact on business location decisions, especially in heavily unionized industries such as manufacturing. “Other things being equal, businesses are more likely to locate in states with RTW laws,” author Jeffrey Eisenach wrote. New Hampshire is also on track to pass right-to-work legislation in 2017. That state’s Senate passed the bill 12-11 on Thursday and it’s expected to be taken up in the House in the next few weeks, Mourad said. New Hampshire would be the first state in the Northeast to enact a right-to-work law, and like Missouri it has a Republican governor who’s already said he plans to add his John Hancock when the document is ready. “We’re optimistic about it passing in the House as well, and Gov. [Chris] Sununu has said he will sign it,” Mourad said.
Reality star and mega-beauty mogul Kim Kardashian is headed to the White House Wednesday to meet with President Trump and senior advisor Jared Kushner. The reason for the meeting is related to Kushner's recent pushes for prison reform. More from Vanity Fair: After months of back-channel talks between Kim Kardashian and Jared Kushner, the high priestess of reality television is coming to the White House. By late afternoon on Wednesday, Secret Service agents will wave Kardashian and her attorney through the southwest appointment gate to the West Wing, where they will meet Kushner to discuss prison reform before he walks with them to sit down with President Donald Trump, likely in the Oval Office, along with White House counsel. According to a person familiar with the meeting, Kardashian plans to ask Trump to pardon a woman serving a life sentence without parole for a first-time drug offense. (White House staffers have joked about who will get to accompany her to the West Wing, and what they should wear for the occasion. The White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment.) White House advisor Ivanka Trump has also been working on the issue. .@POTUS & @WhiteHouse support the bipartisan #FIRSTSTEPAct up for vote today. This bill will offer nonviolent prisoners the education & skills training they need to successfully reintegrate into society & stay out of prison. Let’s work to sign this bill into law! #PrisonReform — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) May 22, 2018 #BREAKINGNews for the media reporting on policy: @RepDougCollins @RepGoodlatte @RepKarenBass & @RepJeffries’ #FirstStepAct supporting the successful reintegration of ex-prisoners just passed the House! A major bipartisan win for the forgotten men & women of America. #PrisonReform — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) May 22, 2018 Jared Kushner and @VanJones68 deserve a ton of credit for the passage of the First Step Act. This is a great and rare example of bipartisan success. Well done all! https://t.co/xPY39yTgJ0 — Kayleigh McEnany (@kayleighmcenany) May 23, 2018 What is something @realDonaldTrump, Jared Kushner and @VanJones68 are working on and supporting together? Prison reform.https://t.co/xJUxZv5Mtt — Boris Epshteyn (@BorisEP) May 21, 2018 In recent weeks Kardashian's husband, Kanye West, has publicy supported President Trump.
Two’s company, three’s a crowd, but for married couple Carl... At 85 years young, Anna Pesce discovered yoga, which transformed... 3:00 Amal Clooney's royal wedding look cost $500K 3:00 Meghan Markle’s gown wasn’t the only dress that guests were...
The U.S. government has charged a vice president at Goldman Sachs with securities fraud for allegedly using information about the investment bank’s clients to make more than $140,000 from illegal trades. The Justice Department charged Woojae “Steve” Jung with six counts of securities fraud and one count of conspiracy, according to documents unsealed Thursday in federal court. Jung is a Korean citizen who worked in Goldman’s San Francisco office, according to government officials. The Securities and Exchange Commission has also filed a civil suit alleging securities law violations. The government said that Jung attempted to conceal his insider trading by using a brokerage account held in the name of a friend in South Korea. The alleged scam ran from 2015 through 2017, according to the government. “Jung tried to insulate himself by allegedly placing trades in the brokerage account of a friend who lived overseas,” said Joseph G. Sansone, Chief of the SEC’s Market Abuse Unit. “Like others before him, Jung’s alleged scheme failed when our data analysis uncovered the account’s suspicious trading pattern and, despite Jung’s attempts at evasion, traced the trading back to him. Jung has worked for Goldman since 2012, according to his Linkedin page. He graduated from the Wharton School of Business in 2012. Prior to Wharton, he worked at McKinsey & Co., according to his Linkedin page. Vice presidents at U.S. investment banks tend to be mid-level employees, above the ranks of analysts and associates but below directors, managing directors, and partners.
A fast food robbery suspect in Santa Ana, California, was shot twice by an unidentified customer who was inside a car at the restaurant’s drive-thru. CBS Los Angeles reports the masked suspect walked into the Cozy Corner Drive In around 12:43 a.m. Saturday morning. He approached the front counter, handed the cashier a bag, and demanded money from the cash register. Police said he was holding a “black revolver.” As he grabbed the bag of money and turned to leave, shots rang out from the drive-thru window, striking the robbery suspect twice and knocking him to the ground. He was able to scramble out of the building and cross the street, where he was apprehended by police. The robbery suspect was bleeding “from the upper body” when police came upon him and he was transported to a hospital for treatment. The car from which the shots were fired fled the scene before police arrived, so details about the shooter are unknown. AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.
Studio 54 co-founder Ian Schrager opens up about the iconic club in an acclaimed upcoming documentary that just landed a distribution deal in Cannes. “I haven’t spoken about it for almost 40 years,” the club owner turned top Public and Edition hotelier told us. “Because I’d been so quiet … people took liberties remembering what happened.” The club owner quipped to us, paraphrasing a line once told to Berry Gordy: “If the lion doesn’t tell his story, the hunters will.” The doc, “Studio 54,” by Matt Tyrnauer — which has been dubbed “thrilling and definitive” by Variety at Sundance — was bought in the US last week by Zeitgeist Films and Kino Lorber. The film charts how Brooklyn boys Schrager and Steve Rubell met in college and set about to successfully create the perfect club. “I was thinking of a very different film,” says Schrager of the project. “I wanted to tell a story of New York and the times.” Instead, “The film they actually did, I felt very exposed. Nothing was off limits — except I wasn’t interested in talking about other people. My life, I was more than happy.” He says that after the film wrapped, “My daughter said, ‘All the parts you are uncomfortable with are the best parts.’” The club defined an era despite being open just 33 months. “It was a gut-wrenching experience to me and Steve, the highs and lows,” Schrager recalled to Page Six. “You can see Steve and I really exposed … not a lot of people know what it was like. It was a really traumatic and emotional experience: It was almost like a Frankenstein monster that tried to kill its creators.” Beyond the club’s A-list clientele, “When you were in there you achieved an absolute sense of freedom and that’s why people are still fascinated.” He says of the film project: “I just wish Steve were around to see it and enjoy it. Because it almost destroyed us. It’s like having an illness — you get better but you’ll always have scars.” There is already Oscar buzz building. “That would be a storybook ending,” says Schrager.
Single life is the key to living longer, one UK woman is claiming. Madeline Dye, 106, of Heeley, in South Yorkshire, England, said her old age was credited to her independence and avoiding relationships, Yahoo News reported. Dye was born in 1912 and worked as a bookbinder until she retired. However, her niece said she believed her longevity was due to “avoiding the stresses” that often come with marriage and relationships, according to Yahoo News. Dye said she has never had a boyfriend. Dye’s niece, Diana Heaton, told the Sheffield Star her aunt did not live in a nursing home until she was 103 years old and only after a bad fall. She said she would cook for herself when she lived on her own and even put up her own curtains. Heaton added that her aunt still “walks freely without a [cane] and is very independent.” “She does still dress herself and goes into the common room and chats with people. She has a great sense of humor still, she has never lost it,” Heaton said. “Whenever anyone asks her about her past romances or if she has a husband, she says, ‘I’ve never had one, that’s why I’m this age.’ She says she has not had the stresses of marriage; it’s tongue-in-cheek more than anything. She has always loved her clothes and has always dressed immaculately,” she continued. According to reports, however, Dye’s long life could also be due to her practice of walking 2 miles to work — and doing it four times per day — up a steep hill, according to the Deccan Chronicle. It is unclear when, or even if Dye has given up on the practice entirely. Dye celebrated her birthday with a party at the Norton Lees Hall care home where she resides and a trip to Baslow, in Derbyshire, England, with her family.
Chicago Tribune opinion: The next Foxconn and Illinois: Here’s why Wisconsin will be the state growing more taxpayers Illinois recently got a humiliating rejection notice from Foxconn, the Taiwanese tech giant. Foxconn picked Wisconsin over struggling Illinois and other states for the proposed site of a $10 billion LCD panel factory that will employ up to 13,000 people. These mega-projects don’t happen every day, so Foxconn’s decision hurts because job growth is the only way to solve Illinois’ fiscal crisis: More jobs means more tax revenue. What really stings, though, is how the winning site is just across the state line in southeast Wisconsin. It’s as if Foxconn settled on the Midwest as a location and then decided: We want to be as near as possible to Illinois without actually being there. Foxconn Chairman Terry Gou gave an interview to Steve Jagler, the business editor of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Gou gave Jagler eight reasons why Foxconn chose Wisconsin. Two of them were – literally – proximity to Illinois: First, Wisconsin is conveniently located in the central U.S., “close to Chicago, a global hub,” the Journal Sentinel reported. Second, Wisconsin has the transportation and logistics to accommodate Foxconn’s growth, and is … near O’Hare International Airport. Feel free to smack your forehead. CNBC: In Weary Wisconsin Town, a Billionaire-Fueled Revival When Diane Hendricks sees something she doesn’t like here, she buys it. A bankrupt country club. A half-empty mall. Abandoned buildings. The rusting foundry down by the river. Beloit used to be a town that made papermaking machines and diesel engines. Ms. Hendricks thinks it can be a place where start-ups create the next billion-dollar idea, and she is remaking the town to fit her vision. She can do so because she is the second-richest woman in the United States, behind only Marian Ilitch of Little Caesars Pizza. “I see old buildings, and I see an opportunity for putting things in them,” says Ms. Hendricks, 70, who got her start fixing up houses here as a single mother and made her billions selling roofing felt, copper gutters and cement with her late husband, Ken. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: UW System office seeks charter school proposals; Milwaukee market may be tapped out More than two years after it was created as part of the state’s 2015-’17 budget, the University of Wisconsin System’s Office of Educational Opportunity is taking steps to authorize its first charter schools. The office issued two requests for proposals this week, one for a pilot for an addiction recovery school, which could be located anywhere in the state; and another for potential charter schools in Madison and Milwaukee. Gary Bennett, the former chief of staff for Sen. Alberta Darling (R-River Hills) who was tapped last year to lead the office, said some municipalities and Cooperative Educational Service Agency, or CESA, networks have voiced interest in the recovery school. As for the traditional charters, if there is interest at all, he said, it’s more likely to be in Madison than Milwaukee.
One of Stanford University’s most vocal conservative leaders, who is determined to “Make Stanford Great Again,” is the son of controversial Obama administration official Susan Rice. John David Rice-Cameron, 20, told Fox News on Wednesday that the Tea Party movement inspired him to move away from his parents’ politics and become a conservative. Rice was one of the Obama administration’s most unpopular officials among conservatives and Republicans because of her attempt, as U.N. ambassador, to blame the 2012 terrorist attack on two American facilities in Benghazi, Libya on an offensive YouTube video. Though they are polar opposites politically, the son who avidly supports President Trump and the mother who is a diehard liberal enjoy a solid relationship. “My mother and I have a great relationship, and my mother believes strongly in the free and respectful exchange of ideas,” Rice-Cameron told Fox News. “We disagree on most of the standard Republican/Democrat disagreements. However, we agree that America is the greatest nation the world has ever seen, and thus, we believe that America has an important role to play as a force for liberty and justice on the world stage.” STANFORD STUDENTS CALL FOR PROFESSOR WHO CO-FOUNDED ANTI-FASCIST GROUP TO RESIGN He says the two both support free trade, robust American engagement in Africa, and believe that Russia poses a major threat to American interests. Rice-Cameron's father is Ian Cameron, a former long time producer and executive at reliably liberal ABC News. Both Cameron and Rice went to Stanford, as well. Rice-Cameron, who is a sophomore, is president of the College Republicans on campus and the activism director for the California College Republicans. Like his mother, who is a Stanford alumnus, he does not shy away from controversy. Rice-Cameron hosted controversial expert on radical Islam Robert Spencer, pushed for a professor with ties to Antifa to resign, pressured the school to reverse its decision on banning American flags on their club t-shirts, and Tuesday the group hosted Turning Point USA’s Charlie Kirk and Candace Owens for a “Make Stanford Great Again!” event. STANFORD REVERSES DECISION, WILL ALLOW AMERICAN FLAG ON COLLEGE REPUBLICANS’ APPAREL Rice-Cameron said his parents, both Democrats, encouraged debate and discussion, which unwittingly put him on the path to conservatism by listening to Rush Limbaugh and Mark Levin, host of “Life, Liberty & Levin” on Fox News Channel. “I salute John David Rice-Cameron; a young man committed to liberty,” Levin wrote on social media, sharing a story from The College Fix. Rice-Cameron responded with thanks and added he will call into the show soon. “You have been the single greatest political inspiration for me,” he wrote. “Thank you very much. I will try to call into the radio show sometime soon.” Listening to Levin talk about the intellectual underpinnings of conservatism and the principles of individual liberty and natural rights, prompted him to be active and outspoken, he said. “This worldview and these principles compel me to promote conservative ideas at Stanford, and beyond,” he said. “I’m driven by a fundamental sense of urgency over the fact that Americans are slowly losing their liberty, and I believe that liberty is being valued less and less. I want to turn the tide, and college campuses are crucial to doing so.”
New Jersey police released body cam footage showing the moments before an officer pummeled a young woman during an off-the-rails arrest at a Wildwood beach — an incident that went viral after cellphone footage of the beatdown circulated on social media. The 9-minute clip shows cops administer a Breathalyzer to 20-year-old Emily Weinman and another girl as they question the underage women about booze found near their beach blankets. Weinman appears to pass the test but then becomes hostile and refuses to give her last name when asked. “You’re mad because you thought we were drinking,” she says, according to video. see also Video shows cop punching beachgoer in head during scuffle A viral video shows a young woman getting pummeled by... “OK, that’s it — I’m done with you,” the officer eventually says, asking his partner if he has any handcuffs on him. Then Weinman begins to back away, shouting “Don’t touch me.” “You’re about to get dropped,” the frustrated officer can be heard saying moments later. As he gets closer, Weinman shoves the officer, her hands temporarily blocking the body cam. When a clear picture emerges again moments later, the officer appears to be wrestling her to the ground by her ponytail, footage shows. “You’re choking me. I can’t breathe,” Weinman shouts. The scuffle continues and then the cop can be heard saying “that’s it” as he rears back and begins punching her. Video of the beatdown went viral last week. The officers eventually get her into cuffs and a waiting police vehicle. “She tried kicking at us so I slammed her on the ground. She kicked him, so I hit her a couple times and put her in cuffs,” the officer can be heard telling a group of cops after the scuffle. Cops slapped Weinman with several charges — including two counts of aggravated assault on an officer and possession of alcohol as a minor. The officers were put on administrative duty while officials investigate the incident.
Americans and Europeans are abandoning parenthood at an alarming rate, profoundly changing the nature of our societies, our politics and our cultures. Last year, women in the U.S. had children at the lowest rate ever recorded. There were just 60.2 births for every 1,000 girls and women ages 15 to 44 in our country. As a result, there were fewer births in America last year – 3.85 million babies – than at any time since 1987. This was a 2 percent drop from 2016. In addition, those having the most children are least able to pay for their upbringing. American women became mothers last year at rates that were inversely proportional to family income. The birth rate was almost 50 percent higher for those with less than $10,000 in family income than for those with family incomes of $200,000 or more. There are many wonderful mothers in impoverished families. And a good income is no guarantee of good parenting. But in general, children being raised in very low-income families will struggle, while children being raised in middle- and upper-income families will do better without relying on taxpayers to finance their upbringing. The lack of commitment of middle-class and wealthy Americans to having and parenting their own children goes hand in hand with our elite’s casual approach to other issues – in particular, mass immigration. The notion that we can simply import foreigners to make up for the child-rearing job we have refused to do ourselves completely ignores the cultural, civic and economic impacts of immigration – as well as the impacts to ourselves when we bring in foreign adults as a substitute for raising our own children. While I would be the last person to insist that large families like ours be the American model, an America where only the poorest have large families and most people choose to have small families – or no children at all – is not economically or culturally sustainable. While selective immigration in conjunction with a naturally growing population and economy can be a healthy phenomenon, using immigration as a substitute for having enough of our own children leads us down an easy and comfortable but ultimately perilous route without precedent in American history. People having fewer or no children at all may seem at first blush to be simply making a personal choice, of consequence only to themselves. However, this decision is actually one with profound political implications. No matter where on Earth a person lives, parenthood is a lifelong investment. The willingness to make that investment is a critical indicator and determinant of a person’s political viewpoint. In the U.S., parents with more children are embracing a more traditional lifestyle and also are more likely to vote Republican. In the 2016 presidential election, Donald Trump won all 10 of the states with the highest fertility rates – as well as 16 of 17 states with the highest fertility rates. And the bottom 10 states in fertility were all carried by Hillary Clinton. The most family-friendly element of the tax cuts Congress approved and President Trump signed into law was increasing the child tax credit from $2,000 from $1,000 (where it had been stuck since 2003) and substantially raising the phase-out threshold from $110,000 in family income to $400,000. It’s a change that puts real money in the pockets of taxpaying American families. Still, even under the new tax regime, the fertility of women of childbearing age in households paying no federal income taxes is almost 25 percent higher than the fertility of those paying income taxes. To say this demographic trend is incompatible with the long-term viability of a welfare state is understating matters considerably. But for all the challenges we face in the U.S., the problem is far worse in Europe, where the current attitude was summarized in a recent report by Population Europe titled “No Kids, No Problem!” European women of child-bearing age had an average of 1.56 children each over their lifetimes – far fewer than the 2.1 necessary to even keep their population stable. The comparable figure in the U.S. is 1.76 children per woman. And both the numbers in the U.S. and in Europe would be far worse were it not for higher immigrant fertility. In Europe, it’s not just that they are having fewer children – more and more people aren’t having any children at all. The Europeans who are declining to become parents are only following the example of their leaders. Of the six founding members of the European Union (Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands) today only one of them (Belgium) is led by someone who has had children. Britain and the European Commission are also headed by childless leaders. Amazingly, these eight core leaders of modern Europe have a total of only two children among them. Contrast this demographic collapse to the situation of the leaders of this same group of countries in 1951, when they founded what became the European Union. At that time, the eight leaders of these countries had 32 children. If you wanted to summarize the forthcoming demographic and cultural collapse of Europe in one statistic, the decline in children among Europe’s core leaders from 32 to 2 in a little more than a generation would be an ideal place to start. At an individual level, each of today’s European leaders may have had compelling or even tragic reasons for not becoming a parent – perhaps at great personal sorrow. Yet while we cannot judge any one particular situation, we can almost certainly say that such a dramatic pattern is not coincidental. Nor is it harmless. In both Europe and the U.S., the decline in motherhood – and the increased decline in the number of men accepting the responsibilities of fatherhood (40 percent of births in the U.S and Europe occur out of wedlock) are indicative of a materialistic, pleasure-seeking, live-for-today ethos. This attitude minimizes or denies the obligations we have toward future generations. It is a sign of our crisis of parenthood that to even raise such issues publicly is uncomfortable. Certainly, maximum childbearing is not an outcome we seek – countries with the world’s highest fertility rates are mired in poverty and face many challenges. But with so many of the West’s citizens and leaders abandoning parenthood and responsibility, some response is needed. I say all this not as an academic observer but as the father of five young children, with a wife who works part-time at night. We have taken no paid maternity or paternity leaves and utilized only very limited outside child care. So I know from my personal experience every day the sort of social, emotional and financial sacrifices that parenting requires. While I would be the last person to insist that large families like ours be the American model, an America where only the poorest have large families and most people choose to have small families – or no children at all – is not economically or culturally sustainable. In his book, “The Disappearance of Childhood,” the late cultural critic Neil Postman wrote: "Children are the living messages we send to a time we will not see.” We need to keep sending those messages, not just because it is our responsibility or because of the profound love and joy children bring into our lives, but because we realize that a society that abandons parenthood is a society that forfeits its future.
WTOP.com; Governor wants Redskins to build stadium in N. Virginia; should state money be involved? The Washington Redskins practice in Virginia; their corporate home is in Virginia, and most of the players and coaches live in Virginia. But they play their home games in Maryland. Gov. Terry McAuliffe wants to change that. He’s spent hours, and a few state dollars, trying to convince Redskins owner Daniel Snyder to build a stadium in Northern Virginia. A stadium deal probably won’t happen before McAuliffe leaves office next year, thanks to Virginia’s one-term limit on governors. But some of the men looking to succeed McAuliffe are ready to take up the fight. State Sen. Frank Wagner, R-Va. Beach, is welcoming – to a point. “We’d love to have the Redskins move to Virginia,” he said. But how much state money should be involved? “Zero. I think it’s totally inappropriate. We just cut $1.2 billion out of the budget. We made some hard choices, some very hard choices. And quite frankly, I don’t think it’s a priority to help subsidize a billionaire to move to Virginia.”
Social media users were horrified following a viral video that showed a woman shaving her legs at a public pool in Florida. The video showed an unidentified woman sitting by the edge of a pool, shaving her legs as children swam nearby. The children did not appear to notice the quick shave. The people who captured the moment on video were heard saying, “Oh my God! This lady is shaving in the pool!” “I hope she don’t shave her hoo-ha next!” the woman recording was heard saying. FISHERMAN FOUND WITH OVER 50 ILLEGALLY CAUGHT LOBSTERS Fortunately, the video cut off at that time. The video was uploaded to Reddit on Monday where it received more than 55,000 upvotes and 1,600 comments. However, the post was later locked which barred people from adding additional comments or upvotes. “Of course this happened in Florida. It’s the trashiest state in the union,” one social media user wrote. FLORIDA PIZZA WORKER SHOOTS, KILLS ATTACKER IN SCARY MASK “Yeah I used to work at a public pool and for whatever reason they attract the worst of humanity. I would never swim in a public pool after that experience,” another person wrote. It was not immediately clear where the public pool was located or if there were any rules posted by the pool. The Orlando Sentinel reported Florida has “extensive statutes regarding pool safety” which include swimmers to bathe before entering a pool and “no spitting or bodily fluids in the pool.” However, there appear to be no statutes against shaving in a pool.
0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals. 1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths.
MILAN (AP) — The Latest on the drawn-out negotiations to form Italy's next government (all times local): 8:40 p.m. Italy's president has tapped politically inexperienced law professor Giuseppe Conte to be the premier who will head Italy's first populist government. The president's office announced Thursday that Conte had accepted the role and would be sworn in Friday afternoon with Cabinet ministers. Conte read the list of ministers and told reporters in a brief statement: "We will work with determination to improve the quality of life of all Italians. " The announcement indicated that President Sergio Mattarella had accepted all of the ministers proposed by the anti-EU 5-Star Movement and League on their second try. The populists' choice for a euroskeptic economy minister was the sticking point that led their first attempt to form a government to fail last weekend. 5-Star Movement leader Luigi Di Maio and League leader Matteo Salvini came up with a compromise earlier Thursday that led the president to postpone trying to install a technical government until a new election could be held. ___ 8:10 p.m. Italian president Sergio Mattarella has summoned the pick for premier by the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement and right-wing League as Italy edges toward a populist government on the second try. Mattarella summoned law professor Giuseppe Conte to his office Friday evening, just an hour after a technical premier-designate stepped aside in a fast-changing political landscape. Conte had been expected to teach at Florence University on Friday morning, but with signals that the 5-Stars and League might get another shot at forming a government, he grabbed a train for Rome. The two leaders, Luigi Di Maio of the 5-Stars and Matteo Salvini of the League, announced after meeting at the parliament that they had reached an agreement to form a political government — an outcome that avoids an interim, technical government and a swift return to the polls. ___ 7:45 p.m. A former IMF official tapped to lead Italy's government until a new election could be held has stepped aside, paving way for political government of populists. Premier-designate Carlo Cottarelli told reporters on Thursday that "it is no longer necessary to form a technical government." He made the announcement after meeting with President Sergio Mattarella to formally renounce the post. The leaders of two populist parties, Italy's anti-migrant League party and the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement, earlier announced they had reached a deal that would enable them to form a government. Their first try failed when Mattarella rejected their choice of economy minister as dangerously euroskeptic. But after they signaled they were willing to compromise, the president put Cottarelli on standby and gave them another shot. ___ 7:30 p.m. The leader of Italy's anti-migrant, euroskeptic League party is expressing cautious optimism that he and the leader of the 5-Star Movement are back on their way to forming western Europe's first populist government. Matteo Salvini posted a message on Facebook after meeting with 5-Star leader Luigi Di Maio and announcing they had reached new terms days after their initial coalition agreement was scuttled. Salvini wrote: "Maybe, finally, we are there." The timing of any new government was unclear, but developments were moving quickly. President Sergio Mattarella has called to his office the former IMF official he'd tapped to run a possible interim government of technocrats. Carlo Cottarelli was expected to formally step aside. Salvini says it took "dedication, coherence, listening, patience, good sense, head and heart" to get a second chance while facing "many obstacles, attacks, threats and lies." ___ 7:15 p.m. Italy's populist leaders are getting a second shot at putting together a government. The leader of the 5-Star Movement, Luigi Di Maio, and League leader Matteo Salvini said in a statement Thursday that they have achieved "the conditions for a political government." The political landscape in Italy has shifted swiftly in the last two days. President Sergio Mattarella put on hold a possible interim government of technocrats Wednesday after getting signals that the two populist parties were willing to compromise on the composition of their Cabinet. Salvini and Di Maio's initial attempt to form western Europe's first populist government foundered early in the week when Mattarella refused their choice of an anti-euro economy minister. As a next step, Mattarella has called the IMF official he named as premier-designate of a technical government to a Thursday night meeting. Carlo Cottarelli was expected to formally step aside. ___ 4:05 p.m. The leaders of two populist parties in Italy are meeting in Rome amid revived prospects for a political government after their first attempt failed on their choice of a euroskeptic economy minister. A day after the possibility of a governing coalition between the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement and the right-wing League was revived, League leader Matteo Salvini canceled appointments in northern Italy to travel to Rome. Salvini declined to respond to reporters' questions when he arrived at the Rome airport. News agency ANSA said he went straight to the lower house of parliament, where he met with 5-Star leader Luigi Di Maio. The possibility that the 5-Star government and the League could come up with a government acceptable to Italy's president buoyed financial markets, despite their euroskeptic views. ___ 10:05 a.m. Financial markets have calmed amid signs that Italy may avoid imminent elections after President Sergio Mattarella gave two populist parties time to figure out whether they can agree on an alternative to a euroskeptic economy minister. The leader of the 5-Star Movement, Luigi Di Maio, has proposed moving the contested ministerial candidate to a different Cabinet post. League leader Matteo Salvini, meanwhile, said he isn't closing the doors on any solution. But he's also showing some resistance to the change, saying "if someone in Berlin or Paris wakes up in a bad mood that doesn't mean that an Italian minister gets kicked out." Mattarella gave the leaders time to form a coalition government after markets plunged on news of an interim administration that would take Italy to new elections.
ABOARD A MILITARY AIRCRAFT — Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said Tuesday that the U.S. would confront behavior out of step with international law, in response to a question about U.S. defense policy towards China’s increasing deployment of military weapons on territories in the South China Sea that are claimed by multiple nations. “We are going out of our way to cooperate with Pacific nations. That’s the way we do business in the world, but we’re also going to confront what we believe is out of step with international law, out of step with international tribunals that have spoken on the issue,” he said. Mattis made the remarks to a group of reporters traveling with him, including from Breitbart News, to Hawaii for a change of command ceremony at U.S. Pacific Command from outgoing commander Adm. Harry Harris to Adm. Philip Davidson on Wednesday. He will then head to Singapore for the annual Shangri-La defense forum, where he will meet with a number of regional defense leaders and experts. A key topic expected to be discussed will be how to confront China’s increasing militarization of the South China Sea. The U.S. took the dramatic step last week of disinviting China from a major U.S.-led biennial naval exercise in the Pacific Ocean known as Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) this year, after China deployed anti-ship missiles, surface-to-air missile systems, and electronic jammers to the land features in the South China Sea. China also landed a bomber at Woody Island. The Pentagon first invited China to attend in 2014, in a gesture of goodwill and improving U.S.-Sino military relations. The disinvite was described as an “initial response to China’s continued militarization of the South China Sea.” “There had been a promise in 2015, by [Chinese President Xi Jinping], in the Rose Garden at a White House meeting, where they stated they would not be militarizing the Spratly Islands. We have seen in the last month they’ve done exactly that, moving weaponry in that was never there before,” Mattis said. Over the weekend, the Pentagon also sailed two destroyers through the South China Sea as part of a Freedom of Navigation Operation (FONOP) aimed at keeping the waters open for international commerce. The FONOP angered China, which considers the body of water as part of its domain. Mattis said the U.S. will continue those operations. “You’ll notice that there’s only one country that seems to take active steps to rebuff them or state their resentment of them. But it’s international waters, and a lot of nations want to see freedom of navigation, so we’ll continue that,” he said. He said U.S. diplomats are “robustly engaged” on the issue, and that there is growing international concern. “Concerns have come to me not from American government circles but also from foreign navies that are also concerned, very concerned about this continuing militarization of features in the South China Sea,” he said. He contrasted the U.S. Navy’s FONOPs with opaque Chinese behavior. “There’s a very steady drumbeat of freedom of navigation operations. We’ve very open about them, and report them,” he said.
It’s easy for people to misunderstand why I left a life of romantic and sexual relationships with women. They string the list of renunciations together like a necklace — no to former love, no to former sexual patterns, no to fulfilling unasked-for attractions, no to a way of life — and to some this looks like a type of adornment. To many more, a chafing collar. My life, however, is sustained by a resounding yes, a yes that is only found in Jesus Christ. Like a diamond that weighs down your hand, that makes you avert your eyes for its rainbow brilliance, coming to know Jesus has continually revealed just how dingy, superficial, and man-made the things were I used to consider a treasure. But God has saved me and shown me that saying yes to Jesus is far better. A Better Authenticity Perhaps nothing carries more cultural cache today than the longing for the authentic, especially in the self. But how can we tell what our authentic self is? The answer from the culture around us is to look deep within, mining our desires. Because these spring from within us, they must be the keys to who we are. We have only one life. The greatest tragedy is to waste it by forcing ourselves into someone else’s mold. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed This finds force especially in the realm of sexuality, where boundaries are cast as repressions that strangle the true self. Because I still experience but don’t pursue same-sex attractions, the world calls me foolish, like someone trying to dam the Mississippi with popsicle sticks. They see a no to those attractions as too feeble to hold back their desires. And they’re right. That no is too weak to resist what naturally wells up within me. But the better authenticity that Jesus Christ has revealed to me is strong enough to withstand, and overcome, because it woos me away. If giving free rein to my desires was the key to life, why had it only sometimes brought me happiness? Just as often, I reaped mediocrity or pain. Contrary to what I believed, pursuing my natural desires did not create fulfillment, nor were my desires fully trustworthy just because they were, and are, “real.” An itch can be very real, yelling out to be scratched. But for some ailments, scratching just deepens the wound. A different cure must be found. A Better Truth Jesus taught me the truth about myself: that I was born a broken image-bearer. Created in God’s image, I was still able to reflect certain things about him. My desires themselves were often expressing real needs that God had built into me; sex was his idea first. But I wasn’t able to understand them rightly. I was born into rebellion, a spiritual stillbirth. My image-bearing was warped, a rotted house frame that would collapse under any life tacked to it. My desires needed interpretation, not blind obedience. Even in innocence, they were only meant to be signals, not masters. Now fallen, they require extra scrutiny because they arise in my flesh, which is naturally hostile to God (Romans 8:7). Jesus taught me that my authentic self was not this fallen creation. My authentic self is the one covered by his righteousness, forgiven by his atoning death, washed by his Spirit, welcomed into his family, wielding the sword of his word. Jesus had purchased me out of slavery to my desires and given me his power to understand and redirect them. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and self-control is a fruit of the Spirit. A Better Freedom In fact, I am more than a conqueror in Christ. He has equipped me not merely to say no, but to grow in understanding the goodness of his design in the first place. I have nothing to fear in naming my temptations because there is no condemnation for me in Christ and I have the Spirit’s power to escape them (1 Corinthians 10:13). Denying and repressing them does not give me power; it tends only to deceive or delay. Calling them by name and submitting them to Christ alone robs them of the power of darkness and secrecy. In the light, they are exposed in their tatters. RELATED: There’s a Way to Pray for Victory Over Habitual Sins, and Many People Have No Idea What It Is In the light, I can begin to see that, at their best, sexuality and marriage are electrifying because they reveal God’s powerful longing to be with his bride and our anticipation of oneness with him. When my temptations are strong, I can remember that each and every one of us is born sexually broken, but not so broken that we are beyond re-creation in Jesus. His gift of sexuality can be reclaimed and experienced as originally designed, whether in celibacy or opposite-sex marriage, as we grow in the knowledge of him and knowledge of self. The Best Yes This is not limited to sexuality. Our flesh tries numerous tactics to deceive us, promising us that if we use God’s gifts in our own ways, we’ll create a better life. It’s as old as the garden. But money, power, family, health, rest — every good thing God dreamed up for us — crumbles and rots when we snatch it out of his hand. A yes to temptation is a yes to disappointment, pain, and ephemerality. Resisting it without Christ only kicks the can down the road or plunges us into a different deadly trap. But a yes to Jesus clothes us in righteousness, stands us up in dignity, and blesses us with purpose. A yes to Jesus frees us to discover the gifts he’s given us, and even more shockingly, to discover that right where we are weak, he is strong. A yes to Jesus pulses us with a life so vibrant that we realize this indeed is the authenticity we have always craved, because we are connected to life itself, and all God’s promises to us are yes in Christ (2 Corinthians 1:20). Friends, this is a beautiful yes, a yes that excludes all lesser things. It is not a yes to be pitied, but one to be desired. Rachel Gilson is director of theological development at Cru Northeast. She holds a BA in history from Yale College and is completing her MDiv at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary. She writes at her website. A version of this article previously appeared on Desiring God website under the headline, “I Left Same-Sex Romance for Love.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. President Trump may not block even rude or obnoxious criticism from his Twitter account, because it is a public forum that is protected by the First Amendment, US District Court Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald has ruled. The President’s use of his Twitter account to comment on important policy, personnel and personal announcements made it a public forum, akin to a park or town square, she concluded. Blocking unwanted tweets is thus viewpoint discrimination, which public officials are not permitted to engage in. Indeed, his Twitter account is not just a public forum. It is also “government space,” and thus may not be closed off, Judge Buchwald continued – rejecting a Justice Department argument that, since Twitter is a public company, it is beyond the reach of First Amendment public forum rules. Free speech proponents hailed the ruling as a groundbreaking decision, saying it expands constitutional protections deep within the realms of social media. The executive director of Georgetown Law School’s Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection called it “a critical victory in preserving free speech in the digital age.” Blocking people from responding critically to presidential tweets is unconstitutional, because it prevents them from participating personally and directly in that forum, others said. The Justice Department said it disagreed with the decision and was considering its next steps. A better suggestion: Embrace the decision. Expand on it. Assess how these District Court principles and free speech guidelines can be applied other vital free speech arenas. Take it as far as you can. Some will then predictably want to construe the decision narrowly, saying it applies only to government officials, perhaps especially conservatives who support this president. Conservatives, the White House and the Trump Administration need not and should not be bound by such self-serving assertions. As Supreme Court and numerous lower court decisions have interpreted the Civil Rights Act and other laws, no person may employ race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, disability status or other categories, to discriminate in admissions, hiring or anything else under any program or activity receiving any form of federal financial assistance, including loans or scholarships. Those that do discriminate will lose their Internal Revenue Service non-profit status and their government funding. Should that list of categories not include one of the most vital and fundamental civil rights of all – the one addressed and protected by the very first amendment to the United States Constitution? The right of free speech and free assembly, especially regarding one’s beliefs, interests and political viewpoints, and one’s ability to participate in discourse and debate over important political and public policy matters? Our colleges and universities were once society’s crucible for developing and thrashing out ideas. Sadly, as anyone with a milligram of brain matter can attest, they have become bastions of one-sided ideological propaganda and intolerance. Every conceivable element of “diversity” is permitted and encouraged – nay, demanded – except for that most vital and fundamental civil right of free speech and open, robust debate. That right now applies only to liberal-progressive-leftist views and ideologies. Anything that challenges or questions those teachings is vilified, denounced and silenced, often violently – as being hurtful, hateful, objectionable or intolerable to liberals. Faculty members are hired, protected, promoted or fired based on their social, scientific or political beliefs. Viewpoint discrimination, bullying and mobbing are rampant. It’s time for pushback. Judicial and Executive Branch decisions and guidelines hold that even private universities that receive federal money for faculty research, student loans and scholarships, or campus facilities, are subject to Civil Rights Act rules. Presidents, administrators and faculty members of public universities are arguably public officials. Campuses and classrooms are clearly public forums. If they tolerate or encourage viewpoint bullying, mobbing or violence, they are violating the civil rights of students, professors and speakers whose views have been deemed inappropriate, discomforting, hurtful or intolerable to the fragile sensitivities of climate alarmist, pro-abortion, atheist and other liberal factions. Judge Buchwald’s ruling and the reactions of free speech advocates provide useful guidelines to buttress this approach. The Trump Administration, state attorneys general and free-speech/individual rights organizations should apply them to help restore intellectual rigor and open discourse to our campuses. The ruling and reactions could also help expand constitutional protections even more deeply in the realms of digital age social media. As they suggest, today’s most popular social media sites have become our most vibrant and essential public forums: today’s parks, town squares and town halls. People, especially millennials, rely on them for news, information and opinions, often as substitutes for print, radio and television (and classrooms). But they now seem far better at censorship than at education or discussion. Google algorithms increasingly and systematically send climate realism articles to intellectual Siberia. Unless you enter very specific search terms (author’s name, article title and unique wording), those sly algorithms make it difficult or impossible to find articles expressing non-alarmist viewpoints. Google thus allies with the manmade climate cataclysm establishment – which has received billions of taxpayer dollars from multiple government agencies, but has blocked Climate Armageddon skeptics from getting articles published in scientific journals that often publish papers that involve hidden data, computer codes and other work. Even worse, it facilitates repeated threats that skeptics should be jailed (Bill Nye the Science Guy and RFK Jr.), prosecuted under RICO racketeering laws (Senators Warren and Whitehouse), or even executed (University of Graz, Austria Professor Richard Parncutt). Google is a private entity, there are other search engines, and those seeking complete, honest research results should see if those alternatives are any better. But there is something repugnant about mankind’s vast storehouses of information being controlled by hyper-partisan techies, in league with equally partisan university, deep state, deep media, hard green and other über-liberal, intolerant elements of our society. Meanwhile, Google YouTube continues to use its power and position to block posting of and access to equally important information, including over 40 well-crafted, informative, carefully researched Prager University videos – because they contain what YouTube reviewers (censors) decreed is “objectionable content” on current events, history, constitutional principles, environmental topics and public policy. Scholar-educator Dennis Prager sued YouTube for closing down yet another vital public forum to views that question, contest or simply fail to pay homage to liberal ideologies and agendas. District Court Judge Lucy Koh concluded that YouTube did indeed apply vague standards and the arbitrary judgments of a few employees, and did indeed discriminate against Prager U by denying it access to this popular social media platform and digital public forum. However, she ruled that Google YouTube is a private company, and thus is under no obligation to be fair, to apply its services equally, or to refrain from imposing penalties on viewpoints with which its partisan officers and employees disagree. In other words, YouTube may operate as a public forum but it is a private business and thus may discriminate as it wishes – since it does not bake cakes or provide food or overnight accommodations … or deal with any civil rights that Judge Koh wants to include among protected constitutional rights. These actions are the hallmarks of communist, fascist and other totalitarian regimes that seek to control all thought, speech, economic activity and other aspects of our lives. They drive policies that further limit our freedoms, kill countless jobs, and cost us billions or trillions of dollars in lost productivity. The Left is clearly afraid of conservative ideas and principles. It refuses to participate in discussions or debates that it might lose, and instead resorts to mobbing, bullying and violence to silence our voices. Up to now, lower courts have not always been supportive of the analysis and prescriptions presented in this article. But appellate courts and the Supreme Court have yet to weigh in on the Trump Twitter, Prager YouTube, Google search bias and similar cases. So we are still in uncharted territory. Conservatives, climate chaos skeptics and true free speech advocates should help create the legal precedents, while also pressing forward to build their own social media forums, and exposing, ridiculing, embarrassing and challenging the dominance of the Intolerant Left.
The lawyer representing Colin Kaepernick and Eric Reid, told CBS that NFL owners were “clearly colluding” against his clients because they were “intimidated by President Trump. In an appearance on the podcast Straight Aim with Amy Dash, Kaepernick’s lead attorney Mark Geragos said that his case hinges on the president’s influence over NFL leadership. Geragos explained, “They were clearly colluding because they were intimidated by the president. The only reason — and the owners will admit this — that they haven’t signed him is because of Trump, and they’ve colluded because of Trump.” According to SB Nation, “To prove collusion, Geragos’ team will seek to show that Trump improperly impacted NFL owners’ decisions regarding Kaepernick, and that owners then advised one another not to sign the quarterback.” It’s unclear what would constitute an improper impact, in terms of President Trump’s influence on the owners. While as the leader of the free world, the president certainly enjoys more influence than most. Unless there’s a rule which states the proper levels of influence and, more importantly, who is allowed to assert it. Then it’s hard to see how Trump’s influence could be deemed legally improper. However, it appears such a rule may exist. Geragos referenced a statute that, he says, makes it illegal for Trump to influence an employment decision in the private sector. “There’s a specific code section that says if you — for a political, partisan reason — take an action to affect somebody’s employment in the private sector that that is, not only a criminal offense, but actionable, as well. “Under the plain language of the statute, clearly, both Trump and [Mike] Pence have violated it. Not only are they covered persons under the statute, but there is irrefutable evidence — that I won’t quote right this second — but there’s irrefutable evidence that it was done for partisan, political purposes. ‘Fire that son of a bitch’ was at a campaign rally.” While “Fire that son of a bitch” may have occurred at a campaign rally, Trump wasn’t speaking directly to NFL owners when he said it. He referenced NFL owners, but that would seem extreme if Trump’s mere statement of what he would like to see owners do — especially at a campaign rally — would constitute illegal employment influence. Geragos would seem to be on firmer ground by pointing to the president’s phone conversations with owners. All of this raises the very incredible scenario of Trump actually getting deposed by Kaepernick’s attorneys. Or, indicted if they’re able to show enough evidence of illegal employment influence under the law. Though, even that wouldn’t be enough to prove collusion completely. As SB Nation states above, Kaepernick’s lawyers would still have to prove that NFL owners “advised one another” not to sign the quarterback. In order to prove that Geragos would have to either produce evidence of such a communication, or provide convincing evidence that it’s impossible for 32 people to all come to the same conclusion. Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter @themightygwinn
The Western Journal conducted a political survey gathering information on the Ohio 2018 Republican Primary Election. Of the 1000 Ohio Republicans who responded to the survey, 50.5 percent prefer candidate Mike DeWine for governor and 58.6 percent prefer Rep. Jim Renacci for senator. Sixty-five percent of respondents also agree with the NRA and its strong support of gun owners’ rights. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed The complete poll results are as follows: 1. Do you intend to vote in the November 6th elections in Ohio? Yes — 98.6 percent Undecided — 1.2 percent No — 0.2 percent 2. In the election for Governor of Ohio, the candidates running are listed below. Please select your preference for governor among the choices listed: Mike DeWine — 50.5 percent Richard Cordray — 34.3 percent Undecided — 15.2 percent 3. In the election for U.S. Senator in Ohio, the candidates running are listed below. Please select your preference for U.S. Senator among the choices listed: Jim Renacci — 58.6 percent Sherrod Brown — 36.1 percent Undecided — 5.3 percent 4. Are you registered to vote in Ohio? Yes — 99.0 percent Other — 0.6 percent No — 0.4 percent 5. Do you have a favorable opinion of President Donald J. Trump? Yes — 61.7 percent No — 36.3 percent Other — 2.0 percent RELATED: Matt Rosendale Predicted To Win Montana GOP Senate Primary in New Poll 6. Regarding your party affiliation, do you consider yourself to be a: Republican — 41.3 percent Independent — 28.5 percent Democrat — 22.5 percent Other — 7.7 percent 7. On the issue of abortion, do you consider yourself to be: Pro-Life — 57.1 percent Pro-Choice — 34.1 percent Undecided — 5.2 percent Other — 3.6 percent 8. Regarding taxes, do you want: Your Taxes Decreased — 74 percent Your Taxes Increased — 4.9 percent Other — 21.0 percent 9. Do you have a favorable opinion of Nancy Pelosi? Yes — 20.5 percent No — 70.8 percent Other — 8.6 percent Blank — 0.1 percent 10. What is your gender? Female — 52.4 percent Male — 47.6 percent 11. Are you better off now than you were two years ago? Yes — 58.7 percent No — 34.6 percent Other — 6.7 percent 12. Do you agree with the NRA and its strong support of gun owners’ rights? Yes — 65 percent No — 31.7 percent Other — 3.3 percent 13. What is your age? 60 or older — 51.8 percent 50-59 — 25.7 percent 40-49 — 12.6 percent 30-39 — 6.5 percent 21-29 — 3.6 percent 18-20 — 0.7 percent 17 or under — 0.1 percent 14. Which race/ethnicity best describes you? (Please choose only one.) White/Caucasian — 90.3 percent Multiple ethnicities/other — 5.4 percent Black or African American — 2.1 percent Hispanic — 1.5 percent American Indian or Alaska Native — 0.4 percent Asian/Pacific Islander — 0.4 percent 15. On the topic of immigration, do you believe that America: Has an illegal immigration problem — 68.5 percent Does not have an illegal immigration problem — 17.7 percent Other — 13.7 percent 16. Which of the following best describes your current relationship status? Married — 56.1 percent Divorced — 15.6 percent Single, never married — 9.3 percent Widowed — 7.9 percent Single, but cohabiting with a significant other — 6.8 percent In Domestic Partnership or Civil Union- 3.2 percent Separated- 1.0 percent 17. What is the highest level of education you have completed? Graduated from high school — 22.7 percent Graduated from college — 18.4 percent 2 years of college — 17.0 percent Completed graduate school — 12.2 percent 1 year of college — 11.8 percent 3 years of college — 7.0 percent Some graduate school — 5.1 percent Did not attend school — 2.4 percent 11th Grade — 2.1 percent 10th Grade — 0.6 percent 9th Grade — 0.4 percent 6th Grade — 0.1 percent 18. Have you ever served in any branch of the United States military? No — 79.0 percent Yes — 21.0 percent 19. Which political party do you believe will control the U.S. House of Representatives after the 2018 elections? Republicans — 61.2 percent Democrats — 30.0 percent Undecided — 8.8 percent 20. Which political party do you believe will control the U.S. Senate after the 2018 elections? Republicans — 63.2 percent Democrats — 25.7 percent Undecided — 11.1 percent 21. How much money did you personally earn in 2017? $0-$9,999 — 24.1 percent $20,000-$29,999 — 12.7 percent $10,000-$19,999 — 12.6 percent $40,000-$49,999 — 10.8 percent $30,000-$39,999 — 9.6 percent $50,000-$59,999 — 8.3 percent $60,000-$69,999 — 4.9 percent $70,000-$79,999 — 4.4 percent $80,000-$89,999 — 3.5 percent $100,000-124,999 — 3.1 percent $150,000 or more — 2.4 percent $90,000-$99,999 — 2.0 percent $125,000-$149,000 — 1.4 percent Of the more than 11.66 million people currently living in Ohio, 8.15 million are on Facebook and 2.89 million are Republicans. The Western Journal’s political survey targeted these 2.89 million Republicans in Ohio. The poll consisted of three different audiences: people affiliated with the Republican Party, people who identified as conservative, and people who were both affiliated with the Republican Party and also identified themselves as conservative. The audience demographic consisted of fluent English speakers of all genders who were at least 18 years old. The information, comments and visits from The Western Journal’s millions of Facebook followers allow The Western Journal to invite likely primary voting Facebook registrants in Ohio, and other states nationwide, to participate in the surveys we conduct with a high confidence rate that the voters we asked to respond, will actually vote. More importantly, the makeup of those who respond to The Western Journal’s surveys indicates the population of registered voters that will turn out and vote in the Nov. 6, 2018, primary. Each respondent’s entries reported in the article are supported by a name, email address and zip code matched against voter file and other databases available to confirm voter eligibility in the state, districts and precincts targeted in this survey. Responses were statistically balanced using Facebook’s Artificial Intelligence tools and programs available to The Western Journal for this program, some of which are proprietary due to our scale and reputation. Questions about this survey can be submitted through the contact us page. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. After a year of intense controversy concerning player protests during the National Anthem, the NFL finally decided to act. At the spring NFL owners meeting this week, a decision was made to require players to “stand and show respect” during the National Anthem if they are on the playing field. Otherwise, players will be given the option to remain in the locker room. If players or club personnel on the field show disrespect during the National Anthem by not standing, their team will be fined by the NFL. In accordance with instituting the anthem policy, the 32 NFL team owners also “reaffirmed their strong commitment to work alongside our players to strengthen our communities and advance social justice.”This commitment will include “extraordinary resources” for programs that “promote positive social change in our communities.” According to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, “We are honored to work with our players to drive progress.” While Goodell acknowledged a desire to strongly support social justice causes, he made clear his displeasure with the on-field anthem protests, which he claimed, “created a false perception among many that thousands of NFL players were unpatriotic.” With such an impression taking hold in the country, it was imperative that the NFL act before the start of the next season. This decision is not the perfect answer for it does not require all players to stand for the anthem, but at least it is a better to have an official policy. Previously, the NFL had no policy, so the players were allowed to disrespect the National Anthem with no consequences. This new stance is similar to the official position of the National Basketball Association. Of course, liberal activists were not pleased with the announcement. The head coach of the Golden State Warriors, Steve Kerr, called the policy, “idiotic.” Plenty of media personalities also slammed the decision as being unfair to players who wanted to protest. For example, Marc Lamont Hill of CNN tweeted, “If the NFL players want to resist, they should ALL remain in the locker room during the anthem.” While some players obviously supported the decision and chose to remain quiet, others decided to publicly condemn it. Pittsburgh Steelers cornerback Artie Burns called the new NFL anthem policy another type of “bullying.” Chris Long, a defensive end with the Philadelphia Eagles, said that the decision was made because of a “fear of a diminished bottom line.” He also claimed it was “not patriotism” to enact this new policy. Not surprisingly, President Trump had a much more favorable response to the new NFL policy. Last year, he strongly condemned players who refused to stand for the National Anthem. He encouraged owners to fire any of their players who participated in the protests and tell them to get “off the field.” This week, in an interview on Fox News, the President said, “You have to stand proudly for the National Anthem. You shouldn't be playing, you shouldn't be there. Maybe they shouldn't be in the country...the NFL owners did the right thing." Of course, the President is correct. It is not too much to ask millionaire football players to show some basic respect toward their country by standing during the National Anthem. Those who refuse to stand are clearly insulting our brave military veterans who have sacrificed so much to allow our citizens the freedom to enjoy games such as football. Football players earn outrageous salaries due to the generosity of hard working fans, including veterans, who pay for high priced tickets. Most of these fans expect NFL players to display reverence for the American flag and to stand for our National Anthem. A protest during this period is both inappropriate and insulting as there are many other ways NFL players can demonstrate their opposition to police tactics or the nation’s criminal justice system, Last year, the anthem protests had a very negative impact on the NFL. In 2017, the average viewing audience for an NFL game plunged 9.7% to 14.9 million viewers. It was even larger downturn than the 8% decline in audience in the previous year. Obviously, there are multiple factors leading to the loss of viewers; however, it is undeniable that the National Anthem controversy was a major contributing factor last year. The NFL owners’ decision is a step in the right direction, but it will not solve the problem entirely. If league officials hope the new policy will bring this issue to a resolution, they are sadly mistaken. The anthem protests are going to continue in 2018 despite this new policy and the major investment the NFL is making in community-based organizations. The key reason is that liberal media organizations and social justice groups will continue to encourage and support players who participate. Nonetheless, players should understand that if they continue with these protests, it will only harm their careers. If there are any doubts, just ask unemployed NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick.
The new Disney adaptation, A Wrinkle in Time, tells the unique story of an intelligent young girl and her quest to find her missing father. Adapted from the 1962 Madeleine L'Engle novel, the movie focuses on the heroine’s inter-dimensional journey. Storm Reid stars as Meg, a self-conscious young woman. Her father disappeared four years ago and she’s been struggling with his absence since. No one seems to understand her, including her prodigious younger brother, Charles Wallace (Deric McCabe). Something strange occurs one day when three supernatural beings arrive. Mrs. Which (Oprah Winfrey), Mrs. Whatsit (Reese Witherspoon) and Mrs. Who (Mindy Kaling) insist that Meg’s father (Chris Pine) is still alive. These beings send Meg, Charles Wallace and Meg’s classmate Calvin (Levi Miller) on a journey through space and time. Director Ava DuVernay truly brings L’Engle’s magical world alive in this film. The Selma director clearly had a beautiful vision for this story and brings that vision to life gorgeously especially in some of the movie’s earliest sequences. From flowers coming to life (“Everyone knows that flowers are the best gossipers in the entire universe,” Mrs. Whatsit says) to a powerful journey through the clouds, DuVernay truly brings her singular vision to this beloved property. There are, however, a few special effects-laden sequences that don’t work. One features a visit to a cave inhabited by a unique being named Happy Medium (Zach Galifianakis). The visuals in this scene look lifted from a video game and don’t really work well on the big screen. The story’s overall journey gives Meg a chance to re-evaluate her self-worth and there are several sequences that really drive that concept home. However, in a movie like this, it’s the smaller moments that truly make this idea emerge. There are plenty of individuals here that verbally urge Meg to see beyond her own insecurities but it’s the more important character choices here that really show Meg how special she truly is. When Calvin tells Meg how great she is, the dialogue is obvious and unsubtle. However, when Calvin trusts her judgment during an emergency situation, it really shows how much he trusts her and appreciates her intelligence. Additionally, some elements of the third act really don’t work with the preceding story. Early on in the film, Charles Wallace is presented as a young genius who seemingly knows everything about the journey ahead. He trusts Mrs. Which, Mrs. Whatsit and Mrs. Who long before his travel companions. He knows when the quest is about to begin long before Meg realizes it. However, in the third act, there’s a little twist pitting him in a compromising position. It seems that the story is trying to imply that despite his brilliance, he’s still a young kid but the character’s presentation during the first act doesn’t work well with the character’s naïve decisions in the third act. Despite some reservations about the plot and disappointment in some of the visual effects, it’s hard not to be impressed with this new film. Storm Reid does a strong job in the main role and Oprah’s supporting performance stands out as she offers comfort and guidance to her audiences (some would say Oprah is perfectly cast here). The most memorable element of this story are the visuals though with DuVernay truly proving how talented of a visual artist she is. A Wrinkle in Time, which has a few darker elements, offers a noteworthy message and some great visual effects in spite of the film’s flaws. For more film and television coverage, follow me on Twitter here.
A 99-year-old World War II veteran’s rendition of “God Bless America” at a Pennsylvania minor league baseball game on Tuesday night has gone viral. “Raymond T. Mohr, who served as a radio operator with the Army’s 29th Infantry Division and landed on Omaha Beach the day after D-Day, received a standing ovation from the Lehigh Valley IronPigs’ crowd after the touching performance,” Fox News reported. The IronPigs are a Triple-A affiliate of the Philadelphia Phillies located in Allentown. This video of 99-year-old WWII Veteran Raymond T. Mohr singing "God Bless America" is easily the best thing you'll see today. pic.twitter.com/aBwRrbXwBt — IronPigs (@IronPigs) May 30, 2018 The team shared a video of Mohr singing the song on its Facebook page on Tuesday night, describing it as an “incredible moment.” The video has already garnered over 100,000 views and has been picked up by various media outlets. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Team catcher Nick Rickles also posted a picture of himself shaking Mohr’s hand at the military appreciation night game. “God Bless America” was written by playwright and World War I veteran Irving Berlin during the final year of the conflict in 1918. He had intended to use it in an all-soldier revue called “Yip, Yip, Yaphank,” but decided it did not fit and shelved the tune for 20 years, according Sheryl Kaskowitz, the author of “God Bless America: The Surprising History of an Iconic Song.” Do you appreciate Mohr's performance? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. In 1938, with Adolf Hitler’s Nazi Germany on the rise in Europe, Berlin decided it was time to dust it off. The song was first performed by Kate Smith during an Armistice Day (now Veterans Day) commemoration, marking the anniversary of the end of World War I. The opening lyrics, which are not often sung, were particularly poignant at the time with the storm clouds of war rising in Europe as Germany seized Austria in the spring of 1938. Additionally, Japan was on the march in Asia, entering into a full-scale war with China in 1937. “While the storm clouds gather far across the sea, let us swear allegiance to a land that’s free,” Berlin’s song begins. “Let us all be grateful for a land so fair, as we raise our voices in a solemn prayer.” “God bless America, land that I love. Stand beside her and guide her through the night with a light from above. From the mountains to the prairies to the oceans white with foam. God bless America, my home sweet home. God bless America, my home sweet home.” RELATED: Veterans Upset After Facebook Takes Down Event To Honor Fallen Brothers The patriotic ballad first appeared on the big screen in 1943’s World War II film “This is the Army” starring future President Ronald Reagan. The movie was based on Berlin’s 1942 Broadway musical of the same name. The song became a staple at Reagan presidential campaign rallies in the 1980s. “God Bless America” rose to the fore again following the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks, as it was sung at many public events including during the 7th inning stretch at major league baseball games. The full version of the song was sung by actress and singer Megan Hilty at this year’s National Memorial Day Concert on Sunday night in Washington, D.C. Watch below: Watch the entire concert, which aired on PBS, here. Berlin donated all the proceeds from the song to the Boy Scouts of America. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
First Lady Chirlane McCray’s leadership of a city-run nonprofit hasn’t panned out to be as “exceptional” as Mayor de Blasio promised when he gave her the job. As The New York Times reported this week, the Mayor’s Fund to Advance the City of New York, which funnels private money to city causes, is now raising only a bit more than half as much per month, on average, as it did between 2002 and 2014. For the first 10 months of fiscal year 2018, it ginned up just $14 million vs. an average $32 million a year through 2014. As a result, the number of programs the group supports has plunged by nearly a third, from 123 during the mayor’s first year in office to just 85 at last count. Yet the fund’s spending on itself has grown since 2015 by 50 percent. It employs more people and has even acquired larger digs — with a separate office, for the first time, for its chairwoman, McCray. Helping explain the funding drop: McCray “has largely been missing in action,” notes the Times. She hasn’t been to her office in nearly a year, and schedules show she spent less than 20 hours in all of 2017 on fund business. She has also missed more than half the fund’s board meetings (seven of 12) as chairwoman. Bloomberg-era chair Patricia Harris missed just one meeting in four years, and she had a day job as deputy mayor. Nor does McCray seem to play a big role in personally drumming up donations, even though the nonprofit’s chairwoman is officially designated as its “lead fund-raiser.” And there was a pattern to the fund-raising calls she did make: Almost half were to donors to de Blasio’s mayoral campaigns. Also notable: Some of the donors had personal stakes in city action, much like those who gave to the mayor’s now-defunct Campaign for One New York, a set-up that sparked state and federal probes and new laws from the City Council. More staff to do less good; a boss uninterested in getting the real work done; fund-raising with a whiff of pay-to-play: McCray has been “exceptional” after all — in remaking the Mayor’s Fund in her hubby’s image.
Israel and the Hamas rulers of Gaza have reached a ceasefire in this week’s exchange of mortar fire and air attacks. Left out of the equation is the party Israel says ultimately is calling the shots: Iran. Both Hamas and its ally Islamic Jihad are inspired by and closely coordinate with Tehran. And the mullahs are looking for ways to recover their mojo after President Trump’s withdrawal from the nuclear deal. This month, Iran’s Revolutionary Guard fired 32 rockets from Syria toward the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights. This week, Islamic Jihad launched some 200 mortar shells at communities in southern Israel. It was by far the largest attack from Gaza since the 2014 war. In retaliation, Israel bombed dozens of Hamas and Islamic Jihad targets, including a terrorist supply tunnel, drone facilities, weapons caches and a rocket-making plant. And rightly so. As UN Ambassador Nikki Haley told the Security Council Wednesday: “Who among us would accept 70 rockets launched into your country? We all know the answer to that: No one would.” Hamas’ decision to stop the attacks suggests it means to avoid another war, one that might well end its control of Gaza. But Iran, an Israeli defense official said Wednesday, “doesn’t want stability.” No: It wants to send its own message to “deter people from putting more pressure on them.” It isn’t working. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vows that Israel will continue to pursue Iran and its terrorist proxies and make them “pay dearly.” Which is the most important message of all.
It isn’t too often that someone in the White House media corps tries to pull a “do you know who I am?” on anyone, much less the Secret Service. There’s a reason for this: Unlike athletes and singers and other such people who use the “do you know who I am?” card, most people don’t know who White House press correspondents are. Dan Rather was arguably the most famous, but this was in the days before he was the host of the “CBS Evening News.” In other words, there aren’t too many people who can pull that ugly get-out-of-jail-free card in the White House briefing room. But if someone was going to, it was going to be Jim Acosta. And of course he did, because … well, he’s Jim Acosta. The whole thing was caught on video and has become a slight sensation on Twitter, at least for those of us who know who CNN’s bratty White House media correspondent is. TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover It’s difficult to tell from the beginning of the video what the issue was, but from what I can make out, it appears Acosta wasn’t wearing a security lanyard of some sort. The Secret Service agent tried to explain to him that, yes, the rules to apply to him, too. But Jimbo wasn’t having it. “I’ve been here five years and nobody’s …” Acosta said before trailing off. The Secret Service agent responded that she was sorry, but she had not been there for five years, and all Acosta could do was thank her and walk away. The original poster of the video characterized Acosta’s reaction as a “meltdown.” In all fairness, I wouldn’t go that far, but once you have to pull out any variation on the “do you know who I am?” card, well … Acosta, for those of you who may have forgotten, is the same guy who actually decided to take to Twitter to complain that White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders hadn’t taken a question from him at three (three!) news conferences after making a scene about it in the media briefing. Here was that petulance on display then: Third press briefing in a row that @PressSec did not take a question from CNN. #courage — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) March 5, 2018 Do you think Jim Acosta is annoying? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Courage, indeed. And now he’s joined celebrities like Mike Tyson, David Hasselhoff, Reese Witherspoon, Margaret Cho and Shia LaBeouf, among others, as users of some variation of the excuse “do you know who I am?” RELATED: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover Now, granted, most of this cohort made these statements after quite a few adult beverages. I don’t know Mr. Acosta’s private habits, but he seemed sober. Then again, I don’t know whether that makes this better or worse. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
We are still anxiously awaiting the release of a report from DOJ Inspector General Michael Horowitz about how the FBI handled the criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton's repeated mishandling of classified information during her time as Secretary of State. Although the public report hasn't been released, it's coming soon. On Tuesday evening, Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley announced a hearing titled “Examining the Inspector General’s First Report on Justice Department Decisions Regarding the 2016 Presidential Election.” It will be held Tuesday, June 5 at 10:00 a.m. eastern time. According to early reports, the IG investigation will hold former FBI Director James Comey and former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe accountable for mishandling a number of elements in the case. Key officials at the center of the findings will be called to testify in front of Grassley's committee, with the goal of getting questions about politically motivated bias at the FBI answered in an open forum. In April, the IG released a report exposing McCabe as a serial liar and justified his firing by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Conservative media pioneer Matt Drudge slammed drugmaker Sanofi-Aventis on Wednesday for mocking Roseanne Barr’s suggestion that her racially charged remark about Obama White House aide Valerie Jarrett was induced by Ambien. “The drug company mocking Roseanne for her mental illness while they drug a generation is a new low!” Drudge tweeted at the drugmaker’s Twitter handle, @ SanofiUS, including three sources detailing the drug’s scary side effects. AMBIEN SIDE EFFECTS @SanofiUS Rapid heartbeat Vomiting Diarrhea Impaired vision Slow breathing Memory loss Disorientation Depression, suicidal thoughts Anxiety Insomnia Nightmares Confusion Dizziness Aggression Addiction Withdrawal, which can be life-threatening — MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) May 30, 2018 The drug company mocking Roseanne for her mental illness while they drug a generation is a new low! @SanofiUS https://t.co/KBLYeg2kDi https://t.co/70m5vNliAi https://t.co/K4jsCTvxKf — MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) May 30, 2018 The first report — published by Thought Catalog, titled “44 Ambien Stories That Will Creep You The Eff Out” — is a listicle of people recounting their bizarre experiences while on the drug. One person says they had no recollection of purchases they made on Amazon. I tried Ambien for a while. I would take it about 30 minutes before going to bed and browse around online, waiting for it to kick in. I started receiving packages from Amazon that I didn’t order. It was all good stuff that I liked, so I called around to family and friend trying to figure out who was so kind to send me stuff. When my credit card bill came, everything was on there, thankfully nothing I couldn’t afford. I checked my Amazon account, and apparently I ordered them myself and don’t recall it. Thanks Ambien. I stopped taking it for fear of what else I might do. Another alleges they couldn’t recall sending text messages while on the drug. Last week I took an Ambien. When I woke up I had changed my shirt and was naked from the waste down. An open but unused condom was on the bed next to me. At 4 in the morning I had texted one of my female friends: “Come to our wonderspace Barely come in Geab son quick teickests ourtaude bsx quick ticks t” The second link is of Ambien’s rating on Ask a Patient, an online database that ranks prescription drugs and their side effects. “Never should have started when dr prescribed this. I am presently weaning off. Good riddance to this drug. Nothing positive to gain taking it,” one comment reads. “Unfortunately, I’ve been taking for 12 years and think I’m addicted. I’m working to get off the medication completely,” says another. The third source, an article featured on Ranker.com, lists 12 “horrifying acts of violence” perpetrated by those who were allegedly on the drug. Roseanne Barr set off a firestorm of criticism on Tuesday after describing Jarrett as the product of the Muslim Brotherhood and Planet of the Apes, a remark she has since apologized for, later claiming she “Ambien tweeting.” “Guys I did something unforgiveable so do not defend me,” she said in a now-deleted tweet. “It was 2 in the morning and I was Ambien tweeting-it was memorial day too-i went 2 far & do not want it defended-it was egregious Indefensible. I made a mistake I wish I hadn’t but…don’t defend it please. ty.” Responding to Barr’s tweet, Sanofi-Aventis attempted to dismiss the notion that the drug may have influenced the actress-comedian’s comments. “People of all races, religions, and nationalities work at Sanofi every day to improve the lives of people around the world,” wrote the pharmaceutical company Sanofi on Twitter. “While all pharmaceutical treatments have side effects, racism is not a known side effect of any Sanofi medication.” People of all races, religions and nationalities work at Sanofi every day to improve the lives of people around the world. While all pharmaceutical treatments have side effects, racism is not a known side effect of any Sanofi medication. — Sanofi US (@SanofiUS) May 30, 2018 Hours after the remark, ABC canceled Roseanne, saying in a statement, “Roseanne’s Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show.”
The American Federation for Children says the key states to watch for school choice legislation in 2017 are Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri and New Hampshire. Texas could also be a candidate, Rayanne Matlock of Americans for Tax Reform writes in the Washington Examiner, quoting Republican Gov. Greg Abbott as saying he “would be interested in signing the most pro-school choice law that arrives on my desk.” Read more here.
A post shared by Raul Jimenez II (@raul.jimenezii) on May 30, 2018 at 12:46pm PDT The Mets are heating up! Some 60 firefighters rushed to Citi Field Wednesday — after flames erupted in a display case in the rotunda near the stadium’s main entrance. The case caught fire at around 3:45 p.m., officials said. But sprinklers were automatically activated and the flames were extinguished before FDNY even arrived, officials said. A metal detector was also damaged in the blaze, stadium employees said. The cause is under investigation. The Mets were in Atlanta when flames erupted. Citi Field workers said they’re confident the mess would be completely cleaned up by the time fans show up Thursday night for the Mets next home date, against the Chicago Cubs. “They’re cleaning the area up right now. There’s a game here tomorrow,” one worker said. “It will be spotless by then (Thursday), like nothing happened.” Additional reporting by Kenneth Garger
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Tesla's guitarist chats with Fox's Laura Ingle about his newest project in today's "Bonus Track": Fans of the rock band Tesla, know the screaming licks of guitarist Frank Hannon well: (Hannon) "I'm known as the lead guitarist of Tesla and I love playing lead guitar, don't get me wrong, but I also love singing." Hannon sat down with me in our studios with his guitar to talk about his solo cover song project, now in its second installment 'From one place to Another! Vol. 2' and the motivation behind it: (Hannon) "Peter Frampton, Joe Walsh, Rick Derringer, Ted Nugent, those kind of guitar players that sing, that's always been something that I love." He also got a huge push to pursue singing from Dickey Betts of the Allman Brothers Band: (Hannon) "He encouraged me to to learn a bunch of different songs and said that's how you learn to sing... (Ingle): Is he like a coach? (Hannon): He's my father-in-law, I married his daughter. (Ingle): That's amazing. (Hannon): Yeah it is amazing, she's amazing." Between touring with Tesla and playing his solo stuff, all signs point to some killer music coming at you this summer. Laura Ingle... (Hannon): The sign says FOX News... (Ingle): Ha, ha, ha. You've got to love that. Listen to the full interview with Frank Hannon and Laura Ingle here: Follow Laura Ingle on Twitter: @LauraIngle
Comedian Samantha Bee issued an apology Thursday, one day after she used a vulgar expression aimed at Ivanka Trump. Wednesday on her TBS show “Full Frontal,” Bee showed a photo Trump had posted on social media of her holding her son. Bee was angered by the picture because of recent stories about illegal immigrants being separated from their children at the U.S.-Mexico border. “Ivanka Trump, who works at the White House, chose to post the second most oblivious tweet we’ve seen this week,” Bee said. “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c—.” The vulgarity in question was bleeped out during the broadcast. Taking the insult further, Bee suggested that because President Donald Trump has said that he listens to the advice he receives from his daughter, Ivanka Trumpa should wear suggestive clothing in order to get her father’s attention. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed “Put on something tight and low-cut and tell your father to f—ing stop it,” Bee said.” Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes, OK?” After being slammed by many for the language she used, Bee apologized Thursday for her choice of words. “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it,” Bee said in a statement. I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it. — Samantha Bee (@iamsambee) May 31, 2018 Should Samantha Bee be fired by TBS? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. In a separate statement, TBS issued an apology of its own regarding what called Bee’s “vile” remark, saying it should not have let the word be part of the broadcast. “Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night,” the network said. “Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” Coming a little more than 24 hours after comedian Roseanne Barr had her ABC sitcom canceled for making a racist joke about former Obama administration adviser Valerie Jarrett, there were many calls for Bee to held to the same kind of scrutiny as Barr received. This is disgusting. How is this acceptable? And how are we expected to take any of these publications seriously if they gleefully repost something like this at the same time they (rightfully) condemn @therealroseanne? You know the saying Love is Love? Well Hate is Hate. https://t.co/YTjmZQ4zMV — Megyn Kelly (@megynkelly) May 31, 2018 If Samantha Bee was a conservative and said her despicable comment about Obama’s daughter, her life would be over, show cancelled, and career ruined. — Charlie Kirk (@charliekirk11) May 31, 2018 RELATED: Outrage Follows After Samantha Bee Launches Profane On-Air Attack on Ivanka Trump Bee’s remarks did cost her program a sponsor after Autotrader announced Thursday it was cutting ties with the program. “The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company,” the company said in a statement. “As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.” Barr weighed in on the Bee controversy, saying she doesn’t want to be the measuring stick in any debate over which comment was worse. please don't compare me2 other people who have said horrible things. I only care about apologizing 4 the hurt I have unwittingly & stupidly caused. I humbly confess contrition & remorse. I failed2 correctly express myself, & caused pain2 ppl. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 31, 2018 White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Bee’s comment was “vile and vicious.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Former Sitcom Writer Explains Why Roseanne Was Really Cancelled Sergio Mattarella's appointment of an IMF technocrat to head Italy is about to backfire on him miserably. I have been following Italian polls quite closely and I suspect the Eurozone nannycrats are doing the same. If so, they are about ready to puke. The last three polls show support for Lega at 26%. 25%, and 27.5%. Meanwhile the Five Star Movement (M5S) has been in a tighter range of 29% to 30%. ZeroHedge made this observation. However, I would not be surprised in the least to find a 60% turnout for Lega and M5S. Get Out the Vote The above Tweet by Five Star leader Luigi Di Maio will fire up the rank and file. Lega leader Matteo Salvini will do the same. Brussels Fearmongering Without a doubt, EMU (Eurozone) and EU officials will run a blistering fear mongering campaign in support of someone (anyone) else. The irony of the tactic is the most likely party is Forza Italia led by Silvio Berlusconi, the very person the EMU forced out of office previously. The EU backing Berlusconi will likely backfire.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. "Let's grow up, conservatives." That call to arms was delivered by Barry Goldwater at the 1960 Republican convention to implore members of the then-youthful conservative movement to hold their noses and rally around Richard Nixon's candidacy. Neal Freeman, a battle-scarred veteran of the conservative movement -- he was a correspondent for National Review and the producer of William F. Buckley's TV show, "Firing Line," among other tours of duty -- recently echoed Goldwater's clarion call for a different cause. It is time for conservatives to get to work on updating or even reinventing what it means to be a conservative. The conservatism of the last 50 years, programmatically, politically and psychologically, is in dire need of rejuvenation. One sign of the exhaustion, Freeman writes, "is that the largest and most urgent issues are left unaddressed by any of the entrenched interests. Incumbent politicians deal with old issues. Movements ride new issues." The most obvious such issue is the exploding debt, which both parties have decided is something they should only care about when trying to unseat their rivals, if at all. But the challenge of the debt is a bipartisan or, more aptly, a nonpartisan one, simply because the math doesn't care about your politics. The pressing question for conservatives is, simply, "What is a conservative?" "Are we free traders or fair traders?" Freeman asks. "Do we want open borders or high barriers? Can we save public education or should we euthanize it?" Part of the dilemma is that in the modern era, Republican presidents define for many Americans (particularly in the media) what conservatism is, just as Democratic presidents tend to define what liberalism is. That may not be true in the eggheadier or more ideologically pure corners of the left and right, but for lots of normal Americans, that's just how it works. Conservatism, in journalistic shorthand, is largely whatever constitutes the "Trump agenda" at any given moment, just as liberalism was whatever Barack Obama wanted to do when he was president. But this is a remarkably recent development, and the fact that we assume it should work this way is a symptom of the polarization of the moment, which recasts partisan loyalty as philosophical principle. Lyndon Johnson did not define liberalism for legions of left-leaning activists and voters, nor did Richard Nixon define conservatism among the ranks of right-leaning ones (which is why Goldwater felt it necessary to plead with conservatives to support Nixon). Indeed, despite the fact that modern American conservatism allies itself with an old, even ancient, political tradition, it's largely forgotten that it is arguably the youngest of political movements in America -- certainly younger than progressivism, socialism or libertarianism (in all of its strains from anarchism to classical liberalism). I understand very well that conservatives often bristle at the idea they need to change with the times. As the famous line from (the far from famous) Lucius Cary, 2nd Viscount Falkland, goes, "where it is not necessary to change, it is necessary not to change." But we forget that the conservative movement's strength came from the fact that it was armed with new arguments from diverse intellectual sources. More importantly, its vigor stemmed from the fact that these various strains of conservatives were eager to argue amongst themselves. There are arguments aplenty on the right these days, but the vast majority of them are arguments over a specific personality -- Donald Trump -- not a body of ideas. And to the extent that there are arguments about ideas, they tend to be subsumed into the larger imperative to attack or defend Trump. As I've argued before, the best thing Trump did was to shatter the calcified and sclerotic policy agenda of Reaganism. To paraphrase "Ghostbusters," he was not the form of destroyer I would have picked, but the destruction was necessary nonetheless. Don't misunderstand me: Reagan was the indispensable man for his time. But the challenge for conservatives -- at least my brand of conservatives -- is to find ways to apply Reaganite principles to our times. It is possible, all too possible, that the Reaganites will fail to win the necessary arguments ahead. But that is not an argument against having those fights, for the Reaganites will surely lose them by default if they don't engage. We need more arguments -- but the right arguments.
183 Edgemere St., Montauk This sceney 21-room hotel (above) is partnering with NYC-based exercise joints like Gotham Gym, the Bari Studio and Y7 this summer. Complimentary classes will range from ballet and body-sculpting to cardio yoga, while an impressive roster of speakers includes Deepak Chopra and Bobbi Brown. A wellness area (designed by ABC Carpet & Home) has been added to the hotel’s top floor, offering massages and IV drips for guests who need help recovering from the party vibe. Room amenities have been switched to the natural, sustainable line Seed Phytonutrients, while minibars will be stocked with complimentary Well Told Health supplement boosters and Caudalie “Beauty Elixir” spray. From $450/night. 290 Old Montauk Highway, Montauk This iconic property (where all rooms face the sea) is partnering with the Wellth Collective — a firm that focuses on wellness and travel — this season. That means transplanting classes from some of the city’s best boutique studios, including Y7 (yoga), ModelFIT (cardio and sculpt) and Lifted (high-intensity interval training) to Gurney’s. After your workout, you can carb-load at Italian favorite Scarpetta, which has an outpost here. An onsite spa offers a full range of treatments, from mineral scrubs and herbal wraps to deep-tissue massages and oxygen facials, and is installing three HigherDose infrared saunas this summer. From $875/night. 181 Main St., East Hampton Energy healer Tim Stoneman will hold court at this Cotswolds-inspired, 17th-century English manor house from July 2 to 9. He’ll offer private sessions (starting at $200) in hypnotherapy (for stress reduction, sleep and happiness), along with reiki, a Japanese technique said to balance and restore the body. Pilates queen Erika Bloom will also give complimentary weekend lessons throughout July and August. The hotel — which has guest rooms overlooking a pretty pond or lush grounds — is also stocked with two pools and an onsite spa. From $615/night. 90 Second House Road, Montauk An oasis of lawns, lakeside Balinese beds and fire pits, Sole East is perched just a short walk from town. In addition to offering bikes and a heated pool (manned by a weekend DJ), the resort has tapped Xtend Barre for a summer residency; the studio will conduct circuit and barre classes on its outdoor deck for guests (who receive a 20-percent discount off the $34 classes). Sacred Space Revolution is bringing its vibe to the East End as well, presenting mystical wellness workshops, tarot- card readings and complimentary crystal facials. The menu at the hotel’s Backyard restaurant is full of fresh fish and local produce, while the Elk will provide a pop-up fresh-juice cart. From $299/night. 31 W. Water St., Sag Harbor This 4-year-old waterfront hotel has added a resort activity concierge, who can help guests plot all their fitness options. In addition to a weekly tennis clinic, athletic offerings include bicycles, yoga, paddleboarding on the bay and complimentary classes (from spinning to kickboxing) at nearby Sag Harbor Gym, along with spa services back at Baron’s. After you’ve worked up an appetite, it’s an easy walk to some of the Hamptons’ hottest restaurants. Or if you’re all tuckered out, the hotel’s restaurant is also worth a visit. From $279/night. 91 Hill St., Southampton East Hampton fitness studio Elements will set up poolside at this resort-style property, offering 25-minute stretch and strengthening classes ($25) using resistance bands and barre-inspired exercises. The inn also offers tennis and bike rentals and can arrange nearby horseback riding and tee times at local public golf courses. The hotel’s restaurant, Claude’s, has added a spa menu this season; for those who want to stretch their legs off-property, there are plenty of shops and dining spots a short stroll away. From $290/night. 371 Montauk Highway, Water Mill Work off a hearty breakfast (such as yogurt panna cotta with a strawberry-balsamic muffin or a cheesy egg sandwich) at this 3-year-old inn, which offers complimentary yoga classes at Five Pillars, just steps away. Sessions at the studio, which is filled with natural light, range from morning vinyasa to lateafternoon restorative yoga. White Fences also has its own large heated pool for those who prefer doing laps. After your dip, hop into the luxe shower in your room, mist on some eucalyptus spray, wrap yourself in the cushy robe and curl up in your Frette sheets sprayed with lavender mist. From $625/night.
1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals. 1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths.
Starbucks, which provided more than 175,000 of its employees at 8,000 stores with anti-bias training Tuesday afternoon, utilized more than a dozen videos and a 68-page booklet in the effort. But it might have turned to the wise guidance of all the world’s major religions to teach an important lesson. The exact wording of this guidance varies from one faith to another, but in essence, this is what we’ve come to know as the Golden Rule: Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Or, follow the example of the Good Samaritan, who sacrificially cared for someone not of his race or of his country, but who was in need. This should not be all that complicated. In an open letter to Starbucks customers, Starbucks Executive Chairman Howard Schultz said the purpose of Tuesday’s training was “to make Starbucks a place where all people feel welcome,” after he said two black men were wrongly arrested at a Philadelphia Starbucks while waiting for a friend. “The situation was reprehensible and does not represent our company’s mission and enduring values,” Schultz wrote. One of my sons was among those who attended the half-day of character conversation, in which identifying racial bias and learning to be “color brave” was discussed. We talked afterword about the ideas presented to him in the language of a corporate culture laboring to say simple things using politically correct language. Starbucks is making an effort. Starbucks has long prided itself on using its platform (and profits) to preach for positive values. But at the same time, it has engaged politically in a way that many of its customers don’t appreciate – particularly when it has tweaked President Trump. Last year, Starbucks sparked outrage when it announced plans “to hire 10,000 refugees in the next five years, in response to President Donald Trump's executive order that in part barred refugees from entering the US,” noted Business Insider. The company engaged clumsily again on race in its “Race Together” campaign, and pushed its way into numerous, non-coffee related topics, much to the dismay of some investors. Schultz pontificated that in the age of Trump, the coffee chain could create "an antidote" and provide a "sense of community” for the politically downtrodden. His community “service” paid well, earning him $21.8 million in 2016, part of an estimated net worth of $3 billion (now you know why coffee prices at Starbucks are so high). But Schultz is not alone in his passion to brew politics into every cup. His views were parroted by current CEO Kevin Johnson, who said: “Will I continue on the social impact agenda as it relates to the core values of the company? Absolutely. … It is what allows us to attract the partners (Starbucks' term for employees) who have an affinity to those values and who are here to serve customers." But it turns out, all those progressive political positions and posturing were not enough to overcome the uglier realities of human nature – the arrests of the two African-American men at a Starbucks in the city of brotherly love. That prompted Tuesday’s nationwide “racial bias training” in Starbucks stores. This is not necessarily a bad thing. Every now and then, stopping to remember to be kind, respectful and careful in what you say is good advice – for politicians, entertainers and CEOs, as well as for folks brewing coffee and serving you baked goods. In its next round of nationwide training, I wonder if Starbucks will remind its associates that pure, American patriotism laid the foundation for the love of a cup of Joe. Moving from sea to shining sea, it’s not in Starbuck’s home of Seattle, Washington, but rather on the docks in Boston, Massachusetts, that coffee became king. When merry old England decided to shift the costs of war on the American colonists through taxes like the Stamp Act of 1765 and the Townshend Acts of 1767, Americans pushed back, fighting taxation without representation. And while the Brits were willing to grant some wiggle room, they were not about to turn their backs on the taxes available from the 1.2 million pounds of tea that the colonists drank each year. In the first of many tea-related protests, 342 chests of British tea were dumped during the Boston tea party … and coffee gained enormously in popularity as American colonists protested heavy-handed politicking by switching their beverage. I wonder if the backlash against all that politicking over coffee will result in Americans again finding that they would rather switch their morning drink instead of enduring the weight and pay a price for other people’s opinions. Personally, I’m about ready to try tea again.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The Starbucks Corporation, which is credited with bringing premium coffee into the American mainstream, died this week as a parody of its former self, and following a long battle with acute Kumbaya-ism. The coffee chain was 47. Founded in 1971, the Seattle-based coffee company began as a supplier of premium roasted coffee and coffee equipment. In 1982, Howard Schultz was hired as director of retail operations and marketing, and after briefly leaving the company to start a chain of Italian-style coffee cafés, Schultz eventually acquired Starbucks in 1987; pivoting the company to its current business model. By the time the company went public five years later, it operated 165 stores in the U.S. and Canada. At the time of its death, Starbucks operated more than 25,000 stores worldwide. Though its rapid growth is attributable to Schultz’s extraordinary business acumen and vision in the marketplace, Schultz also is responsible for the chain’s untimely demise. An obsessed patron of the liberal occult (such as the belief in an invisible and unknowable force called “unconscious bias”), Schultz relentlessly injected his personal, left-wing agenda into the DNA of the company. While this strategy might at first have been innocuous, perhaps even commendable, including such tactics as offering full health benefits to all employees, and investing into numerous philanthropic endeavors, Schultz inevitably fell into a devastating cycle of political correctness, taking down with him the coffee empire he built. Precipitating factors to its fall started years ago with Starbucks’ experimentation in rabid liberalism, but a post-mortem suggests an incident occurring in April to be the pivotal moment in which its Kumbaya disease went from curable, to terminal. In this incident, the manager of a Philadelphia Starbucks store made a terrible lapse in judgment by calling police on two African-American patrons who asked to use the restroom while waiting on a third member of their group to arrive. The men reportedly declined to purchase any beverages while they waited, which violated a “loose” store policy for restroom use. The men refused to leave, saying they were there to meet their friend, a real estate developer, who was on the way. All this led the manager to call police – a decision Starbucks (rightfully) said never should have been made. Rather than responding to the incident with an immediate apology and disciplining the manager, it is now believed to be Schultz’s addiction to political correctness that drove him to overreact in such a manner that set into motion events that would be the company’s ultimate undoing. On Tuesday, 8,000 Starbucks stores and offices across the United States closed (at no small expense) for training on race relations and “unconscious bias” – the aforementioned term for racism, which individuals do not know lives within them. Though experts warned this type of employee re-education, if it even makes a lasting difference on a largely transient workforce, “has mixed effects” and “can even backfire,” Schultz pressed forward in spite of these potential consequences. Also found to be a contributing factor to its death, in the days preceding this training, Starbucks, at Schultz’s direction, announced a change to its store policy, henceforth allowing anyone to loiter on its property and use its restroom facilities regardless of whether they make a purchase. “We don't want anyone at Starbucks to feel as if we are not giving access to you to the bathroom because you are less than; we want you to be more than,” Schultz feverishly stated in what had become a regular manner of mixing nonsensical liberal gobbledygook with major business policies. With investors already concerned by ominous indicators like the chain’s dwindling afternoon sales, when according to reports coffee consumption rises at this time, Schultz’s liberal delusions did little to quell the fears that he had lost touch with reality. It seems Starbucks’ remaining customers, who had not already abandoned “corporate coffee” in favor of local stores on the same liberal principles ironically possessed by Schultz, were also unmoved by the decision to turn their favorite places for meetings or to study, into homeless encampments because of a moral duty to society. With its lifeforce drained, and failing to be replenished by Schultz’s empty vision of making people “more thans” by giving them restroom keys, maybe-probably-but-not-really making store employees less racist through one-day training classes, and stripping managers of their autonomy to run individual stores as needed, the brand we once knew as Starbucks coffee quietly expired. Starbucks is survived by Schultz; the empty shell of a once visionary business leader; and, a bizarre corporate manifesto in which coffee chains should not really sell coffee, but instead “nurture the human spirit.” Condolences may be sent to @Starbucks via social media in the form of hashtags about lost causes.
“LET'S GET REAL: If you think kneeling respectfully to protest injustice is more egregious than cops gunning down 12-year-old #TamirRice for holding a toy or murdering #PhilandoCastile in his car with his young daughter, then you have no moral compass. NONE.” – Peter Daou I love that quote because it’s like saying, “LET'S GET REAL: If you think urinating respectfully on Ted Kennedy’s grave to protest injustice is more egregious than an illegal immigrant murdering Kate Steinle, then you have no moral compass. NONE.” A reasonable person might ask, “What does urinating on Ted Kennedy’s grave or kneeling when it’s time to respect the flag have to do with what’s being protested?” There is an answer to that question. You see, there were a lot of ways Colin Kaepernick could have protested. He chose protesting the flag because he knew that doing something so incendiary would be extremely polarizing and would get a lot of attention, good and bad. Other NFL players saw what he was doing and copied him, not because they really care about the issue, but because they wanted attention for themselves. However, it turned out that the protests were so polarizing that there were consequences. The protesting players cost the league enormous amounts of money and teams decided they didn't want to hire Colin Kaepernick because bringing him onboard would lead to more protests, which would cost them more money. That’s when the argument became, "These players aren’t disrespecting the flag. Where do people get that from?" Well, of course the players are disrespecting the flag. That was the whole point of picking that form of protest. The disrespect of the flag was designed to get attention and it did. “Oh, but it’s a peaceful protest! That means it’s good!” The Westboro Baptist Church peacefully protest outside of funerals and that’s not good, right? There is a time and a place for everything and outside of a funeral or while your nation’s flag is being honored is the wrong time to protest. Of course, the real surprise is that the NFL let its business be hijacked like this. After all, the NFL typically does not hesitate to crack down on players that get out of line in any way on the field. I can still remember Jim McMahon getting a $5,000 fine for wearing an Adidas headband. NFL players have also been fined for wearing special cleats to bring attention to breast cancer awareness and domestic violence. NFL players have been fined for touchdown celebrations, not talking to the media, wearing the wrong color socks and using a cell phone during a game. Yet, when it came to disrespecting the flag, the NFL was just fine with it until viewers started tuning out. That was dumb. Very dumb. Why? Well, imagine you’re a restaurant owner who doesn’t care one whit about your employees’ political views. Then, one of your waiters starts wearing a button that says, “Barack Obama can kiss my butt” or alternately, a button that says, “Donald Trump can kiss my butt.” Assuming you don’t just fire him outright, do you tell him to knock that off? Of course, you do because if your business serves the general public, you don’t allow your employees to offend large portions of the general public while they’re on the job. If they want to argue on Twitter all day or work on political campaigns in their off time, that’s fine, but they shouldn’t be using your place of business to push out controversial and potentially offensive political messages. It took the NFL losing enormous numbers of fans for it to realize that basic principle and now, it’s been decided that the NFL is going to levy out fines if players disrespect the national anthem. According to the NFL, It was unfortunate that on-field protests created a false perception among many that thousands of NFL players were unpatriotic. This is not and was never the case. This season, all league and team personnel shall stand and show respect for the flag and the Anthem. Personnel who choose not to stand for the Anthem may stay in the locker room until after the Anthem has been performed. We believe today’s decision will keep our focus on the game and the extraordinary athletes who play it—and on our fans who enjoy it. Would this be happening if there wasn’t a boycott of the NFL that cost it enormous amounts of money? Absolutely not and smart conservatives shouldn’t forget that lesson. Of course, the NFL still hasn’t acted decisively. The owners should have made it absolutely clear that NFL games are no place for any kind of political statement and players that refuse to respect that decision can go somewhere else. That’s an entirely reasonable position, but the NFL didn’t have the guts to do that. Moreover, it let the inmates run the asylum for way too long. So now, it’s going to catch a lot of flak from the unpatriotic Left that wants to use the NFL’s product as another way to push its agenda. Furthermore, the controversy is far from over. Players may choose to stay in the locker room en masse. Some teams, like the Jets, are already saying they will just eat the fines for unpatriotic players. Of course, liberals will be dying to praise any player who is willing to take a fine to disrespect America and the union is already upset that a NFL player’s right to be unpatriotic on the NFL’s dime might be abridged in any way. The NFL deserves this and the protesting players deserve the backlash they’ve gotten as well. If NFL players had wanted to be a bridge between the community and the police, they could have done a lot of good, especially since there is at least some rare bipartisan agreement on issues like more police training and body cameras for officers. Instead they disrespected the country that gave them so many opportunities, created division and hatred and hurt the cause they claimed to help. If you start a conversation by being deliberately unpatriotic to get attention for your cause, a lot of Americans will respond by telling you and your cause to drop dead. If the NFL had respected its fans enough to keep politics off the field, it wouldn’t be in this mess and if these players cared about something other than “look at me,” they would have never engaged in such an offensive protest in the first place.
U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo enjoyed a 90-minute “working dinner” Wednesday in New York City with Kim Yong-chol, a U.S. Treasury-sanctioned “Specially Designated Person,” intended to get the diplomats to know each other better and to discuss the preliminaries of denuclearization. “Half of diplomacy is getting to know who you’re talking to,” an unnamed senior State Department official told reporters during a briefing on Secretary Pompeo’s meeting Wednesday. He noted the menu would likely be standard American fare before the State Department published photos of the menu, which featured filet mignon, corn puree, and homemade vanilla ice cream: In photos released by the State Department, the diners can be seen toasting each other, though the State Department did not specify in the briefing what they were drinking. North Korean officials have a well–documented predilection for whiskey, however. The dinner occurred in the home of the U.S. deputy representative to the United Nations, according to South Korean news outlet Yonhap. The State Department official briefing reporters explained that the dinner was a necessary way for Pompeo to get a better feel for what Kim Yong-chol, widely considered Kim Jong-un’s right-hand man, would want out of a summit with President Donald Trump. President Trump canceled the June 12 scheduled summit with Kim in a letter last week, but State Department and White House officials have stated they are attempting to plan logistics for it as if it were still agreed upon. “The two top dogs on each side are meeting to see what needs to be done in the two weeks … for the possibility of a summit,” the state official said. “We’ve been clear that what we’re looking for is CVID – complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization. And in order for a summit to be successful, the North Koreans have to do things that they have not done before.” While insisting the two sides needed “diplomatic space in order to work” and refusing to provide details of the discussion, the senior department officials said it was necessary for the North Koreans to “between now and if we’re going to have a summit, they’re going to have to make clear what they’re willing to do.” “I can tell you in broad brush what the goal is, is denuclearization,” the official said. “Also, as I think the President has made clear and Secretary Pompeo has made clear, the North Koreans have defined what they want as security, and they have determined some years ago that security could be found with nuclear weapons.” “What we have to convince them is that, on the contrary, their nuclear program has made them less secure, that there’s a better path forward, that we can work with them,” the officials continued. “We’re willing to work with them to provide them the security guarantees they feel they need, and in fact, we’re willing to go beyond that to help them have greater economic prosperity. But they have to denuclearize.” Pompeo made appreciative statements on Twitter about the dinner later Wednesday night, calling the potential Trump-Kim summit a “great opportunity” for North Korea: Good working dinner with Kim Yong Chol in New York tonight. Steak, corn, and cheese on the menu. pic.twitter.com/1pu4K3oym7 — Secretary Pompeo (@SecPompeo) May 31, 2018 The potential summit between @POTUS and Chairman Kim presents #DPRK with a great opportunity to achieve security and economic prosperity. The people of #NorthKorea can have a brighter future and the world can be more peaceful. — Secretary Pompeo (@SecPompeo) May 31, 2018 President Trump also weighed in, referring to the meeting in New York and parallel discussions with North Korean officials in Singapore as “very good”: Very good meetings with North Korea. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018 Yonhap reported Thursday that “speculation” exists that Kim Yong-chol may travel to Washington, DC, and meet President Trump before he leaves the United States. It is his first visit to the country, and it is technically illegal for American citizens to do business with him, as he is a U.S. Treasury Specially Designated Person. The State Department confirmed this week that any necessary waivers for him to enter the country had been processed, but he would likely need a new set of paperwork to travel from New York to Washington. Kim Yong-chol ran North Korea’s intelligence agency before becoming one of Kim Jong-un’s top diplomats. In that capacity, the U.S. deemed his actions “an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States” in 2010. Among the crimes most famously attributed to him is the torpedoing of the Cheonan, a South Korean Navy ship, which killed 46 people. Kim Yong-chol also reportedly presided over various bombings of South Korean islands. North Korea generally is considered one of the most repressive countries in the world. In its International Religious Freedom Report for 2017, published this week, the State Department accused North Korea of using “arbitrary executions, political prison camps, and torture amounting to crimes against humanity” to subdue anyone accused of practicing a religion, or even seeming too interested in a faith. Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Franklin Graham, the President and CEO of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, wants people to pray to God asking him to heal the political, racial and cultural divisions plaguing the country. He recently launched the "Decision America California Tour" and talked to Todd Starnes about the importance of Christians not only going out to vote, but to run for office as well. "We need Christian legislators, we need Christian mayors, we need Christians on the city council. When I say Christians, I'm talking about Christians who are willing to take a stand for biblical truth, what the bible has to say about marriage, what the bible has to say about the sanctity of life and who are willing to stand behind God's principles," Graham said. Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America! Listen to the whole interview here: Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."
Mattarella’s blunder in appointing an IMF technocrat to head the country is quite noticeable today. Italians are outraged this morning and rightfully so. Over the weekend, President Sergio Mattarella enraged populists by rejecting a cabinet minister he feared would lead Italy out of the eurozone. If anything, Mattarella dramatically increased the likelihood by appoint an IMF technocrat as Prime Minister when a clear majority of parliament agreed to someone else. EU Arrogance Compounds the Problem ZeroHedge reports Italians Furious After EU's Oettinger Says "Markets Will Teach Them" Not To Vote For Populists. With all the grace of a drunk elephant (not to be confused with Jean-Claude Juncker) in an Italian China store, Europe uttered not one but several words very badly out of place. And the reason why Italians are seething with growing rage aimed squarely at Europe's unelected institutions, is because European Budget Commissioner, German Guenther Oettinger, said the one thing that he should not have: that "the negative development of the markets will lead Italians not to vote much longer for the populists" according to an interview set to be published in Deutsche Welle later in the day. The Italian reaction was fast and furious, with the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement and anti-migrant Euroskeptic League both blasting Oettinger for bringing up Italy's painful past, when the ECB's indirect intervention in Italian markets prompted the resignation of Berlusconi back in 2011, with his suggestion - which while 100% accurate makes a mockery of the one thing that nobody dares to talk about, that there is no democracy in the EU - that markets would persuade Italians not to vote for the two populist parties. The head of 5-Star's European Parliament delegation, Laura Agea, said "we ask European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to immediately deny Commissioner Oettinger. Quoted by Ansa, she said "his words are of an unprecedented gravity and are proof of the clear manipulations that Italian democracy has suffered in the last few days". League leader Matteo Salvini pounced: "They are without shame in Brussels. "The European budget commissioner, Germany's (Guenther) Oettinger, says that 'the markets will teach Italians to vote for the right thing'. If that isn't a threat...I'm not scared Italians First. Translated Tweet Strategic Blunder Eurointelligence discusses the Consequences of Mattarella’s Strategic Blunder. Mattarella has accomplished three simultaneous disasters with a single decision: He turned the upcoming election into a referendum on the future of the eurozone. Nobody will campaign on the euro exit overtly. That’s not the point. But whichever coalition emerges from it will have a stronger mandate than the frustrated Five Star/Lega coalition. He managed to frame the upcoming contest in terms of EU versus democracy. He appointed a bureaucrat committed to EU rules, and frustrated a government that would have won democratic backing by the parliament. He prolonged the uncertainty among investors who will now have an opportunity to consider the question of Italy’s euro exit for a long time without any resolution. It will give them time to reduce their exposure. We have always argued in our briefing that the probability of an Italian euro exit is non-trivial. We are not in the business of making predictions, or attaching fake probabilities to events. But we can say with confidence that whatever the probability of a euro exit may have been on Friday, it is higher today. What political dynamics to expect now? The Lega is going back to the coalition with Silvio Berlusconi and Georgia Meloni, leaders of Forza Italia and Fratelli d’Italia. Don’t count on Berlusconi being able or willing to tame Salvini. The Lega is now the senior partner in this coalition, and the current opinion polls suggest that its support has risen since the last election while that of Berlusconi has fallen. We expect Salvini to become prime minister, and that he will once again propose Savona for the finance ministry job. Forza Italia will do whatever it takes to protect Berlusconi’s personal interests. Five Star meanwhile will once again radicalise. There had been a hope that government would tame Five Star. Five Star’s anti-establishment position is of the centrist kind. This party exists as an antidote to a corrupt political system. It is not extreme. The party will now claim that it has been robbed by the establishment, and will become more extreme on the economy, competing more forcefully with Salvini, and able to lure disgruntled PD voters. The polls suggest a moderate weakening in the support for Five Star, but we expect that Mattarella just managed to energise its support. Either way, the outcome is likely to be a more extreme government with a clearer mandate. "Whatever It Takes" Italian Style Bloomberg says ECB's Whatever-It-Takes Toolbox Means Italy Has to Blink First. Mario Draghi’s defining moment as ECB president came in July 2012 when he unexpectedly pledged to do “whatever it takes” to preserve the euro. That reined in spiraling bond yields in stressed southern economies, though it was subsequently backed by an actual tool: Outright Monetary Transactions. Under OMT, the ECB would make large-scale purchases of Italian debt, bringing yields down and ensuring the government can fund itself. It’s a powerful tool -- and one never used. Its mere creation ended the 2012 crisis. There is a catch: The country must apply for it, and must also go to the European Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s bailout fund. And an ESM rescue comes with conditions requiring economic reforms, something unlikely to appeal to Italian populists who won elections by railing against austerity and pledging higher spending. even lower if the bank lent the money on. Similarly, the Bank of Italy can fund solvent lenders directly through Emergency Liquidity Assistance, at a penalty interest rate. That lifeline kept Greek banks afloat in 2015 as the government haggled over its bailout. It’s double-edged. ELA is temporary and requires regular approval by ECB policy makers. When they capped the amount Greek banks could access, the government was forced to impose capital controls. Cyprus also found itself unable to avoid that outcome, though both countries are still in the currency bloc. But those are minnows in comparison with Italy. Too Big to Push Around Unlike Eurointelligence, I do not believe the Lega will necessarily go back into a coalition with Silvio Berlusconi. Moreover, the "whatever it takes" pieces don't quite seem to fit. Italy is too big to push around.
A simple gesture by a fan to a JROTC member at the Atlanta Braves game on Memorial Day was captured in a powerful image. The fan, dressed in a red raincoat, held his umbrella over a U.S. Marine Corps JROTC member as he stood at attention next to the Braves’ POW-MIA Chair of Honor in the rain, according to FOX5 Atlanta. The Braves tweeted the image and described the gesture with one word: “Respect.” Another fan took a snap of the act from a different angle. “They sacrifice so much for us, we can sacrifice for them too!!! #RespectOurMilitary,” the fan tweeted. The Braves dedicated the Chair of Honor at SunTrust Park last year. “Since World War I more than 92,000 American soldiers are unaccounted for,” a plaque next to the chair reads. “This unoccupied seat is dedicated to the memory of these brave men and women and to the sacrifice they made in serving this country.”
It has been nearly five decades since New York Senator Robert F. Kennedy, brother of the late President John F. Kennedy, was murdered on the campaign trail. At the time, Kennedy was running for the Democratic presidential nomination. In her new four-part documentary series Bobby Kennedy for President, director Dawn Porter presents a telling and heartbreaking look at the political career of RFK. The first episode focuses on Kennedy’s early political work, focusing attention on his work against communists and his role as campaign manager and then Attorney General for his brother. Porter doesn’t ignore the most controversial aspects of Robert Kennedy’s tenure though. From his work with Senator Joe McCarthy to his selection as his brother’s Attorney General to his wiretapping of Martin Luther King Jr., the show seldom shies away from presenting RFK’s flaws. It’s the second episode though that really stands out in presenting a new side of RFK. This hour puts a spotlight on the politician coming into his own and running for the Senate. It’s here we recognize Kennedy’s early weaknesses as a candidate (his flimsy handshake, his lack of passion). Some of the interview subjects — who later worked closely with Kennedy — detail their earliest encounters with him, which oftentimes left them feeling underwhelmed. Kennedy wasn’t born a politician. In his early political life, he took a back seat to JFK. And when given the chance to step up, he was insecure. It’s this hour of the program that shows how far he evolved and how he became passionate about the issues that would later define his career. The third hour of the program focuses on the events of 1968 and Kennedy’s presidential run but it also sheds light on all of the big changes our country went through in that year. An anti-war candidate who broke through with voters. A sitting president who opted not to run for re-election. The assassination of civil rights icon Martin Luther King Jr..These events really changed Robert Kennedy. The fourth episode focuses on the period after the death of Robert Kennedy and ultimately, it speaks to his profound legacy. In presenting RFK’s life and legacy, Porter oftentimes interviews people who worked closely with the Senator. However, some of her most enlightening subjects are people who didn’t know him well but whose lives were forever changed by him. In the fourth hour, for instance, Porter brings renewed attention to Juan Romero, the busboy who held up Kennedy’s head after he was shot, and Munir Sirhan, the brother of Kennedy’s assassin. These are individuals who haven’t spoken out often and it says a lot about Porter’s compassionate style that both feel free to talk about this painful period in their lives. Another powerful interview subject is John Lewis, the civil rights leader who became a Georgia Congressman. Lewis, who worked with Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert Kennedy, brings a unique perspective to the story. The Congressman stood up with both of these iconic political figures and saw their lives cut short. In one of the show’s most telling moments, he nearly breaks down thinking about what was lost in that horrific period in American history. Whatever your perspective of the Kennedy family is, Bobby Kennedy for President manages to capture its subject matter in new and revealing ways. Even for Kennedy critics, this program reminds us of this turbulent period in American history and how our nation was changed because of it. Click here to read an interview with Bobby Kennedy for President director/executive producer Dawn Porter. Sign up for John Hanlon’s weekly newsletter by clicking here.
The iconic Wrigley building, which opened its doors in 1924, will reportedly be bought by a Chicago billionaire to the tune of roughly $255 million. Joe Mansueto has reportedly struck a deal with the current building’s ownership group led by BDT Capital Partners, the Chicago Tribune reported. Mansueto is the founder and former CEO of investment research firm Morningstar. The hefty price tag is approximately eight times the $33 million that the venture paid for the two-tower structure in 2011 to acquire it from Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co., the paper reported citing sources. Instead of going through a broker, BDT’s founder Byron Trott and Mansueto negotiated the deal themselves, according to the paper. The building, which was declared a landmark in 2012, was the headquarters of the chewing gum giant, Wrigley Company, for many years. Nearly all of the 472,000 square feet has been leased out to tenants, with the largest being architecture firm Perkins + Will that rents out more than 60,000 square feet, according to the paper. A spokesman for Mansueto declined to provide a comment to the Tribune. BDT and Zeller Realty Group did not immediately respond to the paper’s request for comment. Fox Business’ Ken Martin contributed to this report.
I’m currently in Monaco, which is a remarkable place for two reasons. First, it is has an unusual economic model. There is no income tax, and you won’t be surprised to learn that I think this helps to explain why it is the world’s richest jurisdiction. Makes me wish we could reverse that terrible day in 1913 when the income tax was imposed in the United States. Second, there are a lot of beautiful people in this small nation, especially relative to the small overall population. With one exception, I’ve never commented on the looks of a population for the simple reason that it has nothing to do with public policy. But that may be changing, in part because some ostensibly unattractive young men (known as “incels” because they are involuntarily celibate) are dealing with their frustration by killing others. That strikes me a crazy reaction. I’ve endured many periods of involuntary celibacy in my life and it never occurred to me to murder anyone. But let’s deal seriously with this issue. There’s no question that some people are lucky because they won the genetic lottery. If you’re naturally attractive, you have many more relationship options, whether you’re looking for one-night stands or marriage. And it’s not just sex and relationships. Being physically attractive makes life easier in all sorts of ways. That’s not fair. But does that unfairness justify intervention? Professor Robin Hanson of George Mason University doesn’t think so, but he wonders why people concerned about income equality aren’t similarly concerned about access-to-sex equality. I’ve long puzzled over the fact that most of the concern I hear expressed on inequality is about…income inequality… many seem to be trying hard to inform those who rank low of their low status. Their purpose seems to be to induce envy, to induce political action to increase redistribution. …They remind the poor that they could consider revolting, and remind everyone else that a revolt might happen. This strengthens an implicit threat of violence should redistribution be insufficient. …One might plausibly argue that those with much less access to sex suffer to a similar degree as those with low income, and might similarly hope to gain from organizing around this identity, to lobby for redistribution along this axis and to at least implicitly threaten violence if their demands are not met. …personally I’m not very attracted to non-insurance-based redistribution policies of any sort, though I do like to study what causes others to be so attracted. Hanson’s column generated a lot of response. Ross Douthat addressed the topic in a column for the New York Times. …it brings me to the case of Robin Hanson, a George Mason economist, libertarian and noted brilliant weirdo. Commenting on the recent terrorist violence in Toronto, in which a self-identified “incel” — that is, involuntary celibate — man sought retribution against women and society for denying him the fornication he felt that he deserved, Hanson offered this provocation: If we are concerned about the just distribution of property and money, why do we assume that the desire for some sort of sexual redistribution is inherently ridiculous? …Hanson’s post made me immediately think of a recent essay in The London Review of Books by Amia Srinivasan, “Does Anyone Have the Right To Sex?” Srinivasan, an Oxford philosophy professor, covered similar ground (starting with an earlier “incel” killer) but expanded the argument well beyond the realm of male chauvinists to consider groups with whom The London Review’s left-leaning and feminist readers would have more natural sympathy — the overweight and disabled, minority groups treated as unattractive by the majority, trans women unable to find partners and other victims… Srinivasan ultimately answered her title question in the negative: “There is no entitlement to sex, and everyone is entitled to want what they want.” But her negative answer was a qualified one. …like other forms of neoliberal deregulation the sexual revolution created new winners and losers, new hierarchies to replace the old ones, privileging the beautiful and rich and socially adept in new ways and relegating others to new forms of loneliness and frustration. Writing for Slate, Jordan Weissmann had a very sour reaction to Hanson’s column. If you’ve ever heard of George Mason University economist Robin Hanson, there’s a good chance it was because he wrote something creepy. …Last week, Hanson was back at it again. In a post that left many readers agog, he decided to use a heinous incident of misogynistic violence as an opportunity to contemplate the concept of “redistributing” sex to men who have trouble getting laid. …His brief post is more or less a lame attempt to compare people who worry about income inequality with incels who worry about “sexual inequality,” and suggest that they’re maybe not so different. …Some people have read Hanson’s piece and concluded that he believes women should be forced to have sex with men who strike out on Tinder, like some sort of giant socialized harem. I don’t think that’s the case. The professor, again, leans libertarian and, as he clarified on Twitter, opposes all sorts of government redistribution, including in this case. By the way, I can’t resist commenting on the absurdity of Weissmann stating that he doesn’t “think” that Hanson believes in coerced sex redistribution. Of course he knows that Hanson is opposed to that route. But since Weissmann presumably believes in coerced income redistribution, he wants to lash out at Hanson for pointing out that there’s an unseemly link between the two ideas. I’ll close by pointing out that attractiveness helps with income as well as sex. And Omar Al-Ubaydli of the Mercatus Center asks, in a column for the Washington Examiner, whether that justifies redistribution. Do attractive workers get paid more than unattractive ones? Some labor economists think so, having clearly demonstrated the existence of the “beauty premium,” which shows attractive workers have higher wages and more job opportunities. So, should we look to implement a “ridiculously good looking” tax? …what truly leads to higher wages for our photogenic friends. Is it because our beautiful colleagues are more effective at their jobs? Or is it because we are biased toward them… If physical attractiveness brings about superior productivity…then the beauty premium is morally justifiable. Employers pay for productivity… But if, on the other hand, earnings differences can be attributed to bigoted oppression of those blessed with less beauty, then there may be moral grounds for some positive discrimination and equal-pay legislation. But if there’s a tax on beauty, what about other natural traits, like athletic skill? If I deserved a subsidy from Gisele Bundchen for being less beautiful, would I deserve one from Lionel Messi for being a less capable soccer player? Or a tax on height? If the idea of a beauty tax seems strange or unlikely, then you may be surprised to learn that several respected economists have argued in favor of a height tax, whereby tall people are forced to subsidize the short. As a libertarian, this isn’t a difficult issue. Like Robin Hanson, I don’t believe in coerced redistribution, whether for sex or money. I have zero sympathy for violent “incels”, but I also recognize that life can be very unfair for people who lost the aforementioned genetic lottery. This is not a problem with a solution, but it’s one of the reasons I support legalized prostitution. P.S. The U.K. actually has decided that some people have a right to sex, though fortunately there’s no coercion (other than the threats needed to collect taxes).
A Russian journalist who, with the help of Ukrainian police, faked his own death said on Wednesday that he has no plans to die until he has “danced on Putin’s grave.” On Wednesday, Arkady Babchenko surprised many by showing up alive at a televised news conference in Kiev, a day after Ukrainian authorities told the press he was found shot dead. He claimed the Ukrainian secret service faked his death as part of a special intelligence operation to catch those plotting his assassination. The day before, Ukrainian officials said that Babchenko had died after being shot at home by an unknown assailant, leading Moscow and Kiev to blame one another for his death. Video of his colleagues watching the press conference – and being shocked to see their fellow journalist on television alive – quickly spread through social media. Реакція журналістів ATR 😍 Відео – Kateryna Lisunova pic.twitter.com/GmkBcXc157 — Радіо Свобода (@radiosvoboda) May 30, 2018 In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Babchenko, who fled Russia early last year fearing for his life, said he hoped to “die at the age of 96, having danced on Putin’s grave” as well as “taking a selfie standing on a tank” in downtown Moscow. Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko, who remains a closer ally to the West than Putin’s Russia, revealed he was aware of the plot to fake Babchenko’s death. “I want to thank all Ukrainians who were not indifferent, who were ready to fight and act in order to save the country,” he said, adding that Babchenko was at risk of an attack from a Russian citizen who “owns a huge arsenal of weapons, can create arms dumps and organize terrorist acts.” “We finally learned to defend,” Poroshenko said. “Defend the country, defend its citizens and do it with extraordinary professional efforts of the new Security Service, which is capable of passing exams of any complexity.” Yet the hoax attracted criticism from some human rights groups, who described the move as a “pathetic stunt.” “It is pathetic and regrettable that the Ukrainian police have played with the truth, whatever their motive,” the head of Reporters Without Borders, Christophe Deloire, told AFP news agency. The Committee to Protect Journalists also demanded that authorities explain “what necessitated [such an] extreme measure.” “We are relieved that # ArkadyBabchenko is alive, Ukrainian authorities must disclose what necessitated the extreme measure of staging news of the Russian journalist’s murder,” the group wrote on Twitter. “CPJ is investigating this unprecedented situation and will have further comment once we have more details.” We are relieved that #ArkadyBabchenko is alive. Ukrainian authorities must disclose what necessitated the extreme measure of staging news of the Russian journalist's murder. CPJ is investigating this unprecedented situation and will have further comment once we have more details. — Committee to Protect Journalists (@pressfreedom) May 30, 2018 However, Babchenko later hit back at what he described as “the keepers of morality, who are dissatisfied with the fact that I somehow wrongly, in their opinion, did not die.” In recent years, dozens of Russian journalists have been attacked, murdered, or died in mysterious circumstances, after speaking out against Putin’s Russia. Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.
NEW YORK (AP) — A study of hundreds of thousands of popular songs over the past three decades has found a downward sonic trend in happiness and an increase in sadness, as the chirpy band Wham! gave way to the moody Sam Smith. For the report in the journal Royal Society Open Science, researchers at the University of California at Irvine looked at 500,000 songs released in the UK between 1985 and 2015, and categorized them according to their mood. "'Happiness' is going down, 'brightness' is going down, 'sadness' is going up, and at the same time, the songs are becoming more 'danceable' and more 'party-like,'" co-author Natalia L. Komarova told The Associated Press. Of course, the researchers emphasize that a gradual decrease in the average "happiness" index does not mean that all successful songs in 1985 were happy and all successful songs in 2015 were sad. They were looking for average trends in the acoustic properties of the music and the moods describing the sounds. Some songs with a low happiness index in 2014 include "Stay With Me" by Sam Smith, "Whispers" by Passenger and "Unmissable" by Gorgon City. Some from 1985 with a high happiness index include "Glory Days" by Bruce Springsteen, "Would I Lie to You?" by the Eurythmics, and "Freedom" by Wham! "The public seems to prefer happier songs, even though more and more unhappy songs are being released each year," the researchers wrote. They also found the most successful genres of music were dance and pop, as well as a "clear downward trend" in the success of rock, starting in the early 2000s. The overall mood shifts in the songs' musical features mirror other studies that have examined lyric changes over the years. They have found the use of positive emotions has declined and indicators of loneliness and social isolation have increased. "So it looks like, while the overall mood is becoming less happy, people seem to want to forget it all and dance," emailed Komarova, who wrote the report with Myra Interiano, Kamyar Kazemi, LijiaWang, Jienian Yang and Zhaoxia Yu. The researchers also found that the "maleness" of songs — the frequency of male singers in popular music — has decreased over the last 30 years. "Successful songs are characterized by a larger percentage of female artists compared to all songs," they write. That finding comes at a time when the music industry is wrestling with the issue of gender inequality, and men overwhelmingly dominate the ranks of artists and songwriters. ___ Online: rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org ___ Mark Kennedy is at http://twitter.com/KennedyTwits
In life and in death, Billy Graham has been depicted as a benign counselor to presidents. On Wednesday, he became the first religious leader to lie in state at the US Capitol. Now, we owe ourselves a reckoning with Graham, who spread his brand of evangelical Christianity around the world while having unfettered access to the Oval Office for decades. Graham first rose to prominence after World War II, pitching tent revivals and crusades all over the country. He was propped up by William Randolph Hearst, and by 1951 Graham was well in the pocket of Texas billionaire Sid Richardson. It was Richardson who dispatched Graham to Paris to convince Dwight Eisenhower to run for president. As recounted in “The Preacher and the Presidents: Billy Graham in the White House,” by Nancy Gibbs and Michael Duffy, Graham had more of an issue with Eisenhower’s “salty language” than his lack of religious belief. In fact, once Eisenhower agreed to run, he openly sought Graham’s help in selling himself as a man of faith; he told Graham that the country would never elect a non-churchgoing candidate. Eisenhower, a lapsed Presbyterian, asked for Bible quotes to cite in stump speeches and for churches Graham could recommend. A 1953 photo-op shows Graham and Eisenhower reading the Bible together — a photo Graham later reproduced in his own literature. Just before the election, Graham issued a press release. “Mr. Graham is not taking sides in the political campaign,” it read. “He is remaining neutral.” Despite lifelong claims that he was uninterested in power and profit, Graham was gravitationally drawn to both. In 1960, Graham mobilized evangelicals against John F. Kennedy, maintaining Kennedy’s Catholicism rendered him unfit. (The irony!) Lyndon Johnson reportedly wanted Graham to join his Cabinet. “I almost used the White House as a hotel when Johnson was president,” Graham told his biographer Marshall Frady. “He was always trying to keep me there. He just never wanted me to leave.” Graham was also close to Richard Nixon — so close that Graham took it upon himself to draft a secret 13-page plan to bomb North Vietnam. In his book “The Golden Age Is In Us: Journeys and Encounters,” Alexander Cockburn cites a declassified 1969 memo Graham wrote after meeting with missionaries in Bangkok. Graham’s plan, he wrote to Nixon, “could overnight destroy the economy of North Vietnam.” Had Nixon followed through, that strike could have killed an estimated million people. A recorded 1972 Oval Office conversation between Nixon and Graham, released by the National Archives in 2002, revealed Graham made multiple anti-Semitic remarks. Graham called Jews “Satanic.” He agreed with Nixon that they controlled the national media. “They’re the ones putting out all the pornographic stuff,” Graham said, and their “stranglehold has got to be broken or the country’s going down the drain.” But not to worry, Graham told Nixon — Jews had no idea what he truly believed. “I go and keep friends with Mr. Rosenthal at The New York Times and people of that sort, you know,” Graham said. “And all — I mean not all the Jews, but a lot of the Jews are great friends of mine. They swarm around me and are friendly to me because they know I’m friendly with Israel. But they don’t know how I really feel about what they are doing to this country.” Graham strongly denied ever having such a conversation in 1994, nor holding such views, but upon the tape’s release in 2002 issued an apology. “I don’t ever recall having those feelings about any group, especially the Jews, and I certainly do not have them now,” Graham said. “I humbly ask the Jewish community to reflect on my actions on behalf of Jews over the years that contradict my words in the Oval Office that day.” According to a 1993 report in Time magazine, Nixon offered Graham the post of US ambassador to Israel — at a meeting with Golda Meir! (He turned it down.) Bill Clinton used Graham as window dressing during the Lewinsky scandal. At a 2005 event in Flushing Meadows, Queens, with his “wonderful friends” Bill and Hillary on stage, Graham told the crowd that he’d exhorted the former president to “become an evangelist, because he had all the gifts.” What an endorsement for the evangelical profession. Graham was in the Oval Office on the eve of the 1991 Gulf War and deployed to sell it. The day after bombing began, at President Bush’s urging, Graham gave a speech declaring a war of choice was actually a “fight for peace” that would grant us “a new world order.” Graham’s presence in American life and politics diminished with age and illness, yet it somehow became tradition for every US president to convene with Graham — the last was President Obama. By the way, Graham still believed a woman’s place was in the home, hell was a real destination for non-Christians and Mormonism was a cult (until Mitt Romney ran). He refused to fully denounce his son Franklin — his heir to the crusade — when he called Islam a “wicked” religion. “Let’s say, I didn’t say it,” the elder Graham told The New York Times in 2005. It’s now time to ask how Billy Graham’s permanent place in governance came to be and why. A man who rejected evolution and science. A fundamentalist believer who deigned himself an expert on foreign policy — guided by the infallible spirit of God, no doubt. A man who taught himself oration by preaching to oil cans and lawn mowers — this man wound up a hallowed advisor to the most powerful men on Earth. Is this a rational outcome? (Harry Truman was not a fan. “Counterfeit,” he called Graham.) Let’s also ask: Would America have countenanced a rabbi? A mullah? A shaman? Our nation was founded on the separation of church and state, yet for decades a for-profit preacher — worth a reported $25 million at the time of his death — was a backroom political power broker agitating, at least twice, for war. It’s not heresy to question Graham. It’s necessary — because the tradition of an installed White House spiritual adviser, and our unblinking acceptance of one, should die with Billy Graham.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo struck a positive tone when he addressed reporters after his meeting with North Korean official Kim Yong Chol in New York City Thursday. At the same time, a U.S. delegation is in Singapore meeting with North Korean officials in preparation for a planned summit between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and President Trump. The talks offer a real opportunity for the U.S. and North Korea to enter into "a new era of peace, prosperity, and security," Pompeo said. "Through these series of meetings, I'm confident we're moving in the right direction... It could be nothing short of tragic to let this opportunity go to waste." The secretary said that in his meetings with Chol, he was very clear that the U.S.'s objective is to assure "the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula." "If Kim Jong Un denuclearizes, there is a brighter path for North Korea," he said. "We envision a strong, connected and secure, prosperous North Korea that maintains its cultural heritage, but is integrated into the community of nations." The future can be one of "friendship," not threats. In his meetings, Pompeo detected that the current leadership is prepared to make that "strategic shift." Pompeo said Chol is traveling to Washington Friday with a "personal letter" from Kim Jong Un. Watch the secretary's full remarks below.
Kansas has passed school funding legislation mandated by the state Supreme Court, which had issued a deadline for the state to equalize funding between school districts by the end of the month. The education plan will shift $38 million to poorer districts. Read more here.
Ed Stack can exhale now. Just a couple of months ago the Dick’s Sporting Goods chief executive worried that his decision to yank assault rifles and ammunition from store shelves would have customers running for the exits. The move — coming in the wake of the Parkland school shooting — “won’t be positive from a sales and traffic standpoint,” Stack said in March after gun enthusiasts threatened to boycott the chain’s 720 stores. Stack, in a bold move, also raised the age to buy firearms to 21 from 18. But on Wednesday, Dick’s reported the damage wasn’t nearly as severe as feared — as the chain beat Wall Street expectations. After the surprisingly good results, shares of the Pittsburgh chain’s shares shot up 26 percent, to close at $38.35. Its shares are up 21 percent since it announced its gun restrictions on Feb. 28. “They were concerned that losing the gun business would cost them, but they are making it up by selling other stuff,” Susquehanna Financial Group analyst Sam Poser told The Post. “Whatever their concerns were, they didn’t come to fruition.” Revenue in the three months ended May 5 rose 4.6 percent, to $1.91 billion, while profit increased 3.2 percent, to $60.1 million. At the same time, Dick’s raised its profit estimate for the year. Customer traffic fell 3.7 percent in the quarter and same-store sales declined 2.5 percent, but management largely blamed cold weather in March and April for the declines. The average transaction increased 1.2 percent. While sales in brick-and-mortar stores were down, e-commerce sales, following a wider trend, were up 24 percent in the quarter — up from a 9.9 percent increase a year ago. The chain’s private label business helped fuel the growth. “I’m extremely optimistic about the future of Dick’s Sporting Goods,” Stack said on a conference call. That being said, management expects its hunting business to continue to shrink. Guns are sold in its Field & Stream stores — but it’s a low-margin business that had been declining well before the firearm policy was announced, it said. The restrictive stance on gun sales may even have boosted customer traffic to some stores, according to Reveal Mobile, a Raleigh, NC, company that tracks mobile data and found that foot traffic at Dick’s stores surged nearly 4 percent the weekend following its new gun policies, as first reported by The Post. “It’s very easy for people to go to their social media accounts” to express their support or anger, “but it’s harder to change their shopping patterns,” said Matthew Davis, chief marketing officer of Reveal Mobile. Davis noted that the backlash against Facebook following it privacy debacle did not affect its advertising revenue or customers use of their accounts. Meanwhile, Vista Outdoor, which makes many outdoor products — from Savage assault-style rifles to Camp Chef grills, Bollé safety goggles, Bell bike helmets, Blackburn bike accessories and Bushnell golf range finders — said earlier this month that it may sell off its gun business following decisions by several major retailers, including REI Co-op, to no longer sell any Vista outdoor products because of the company’s gun business. Shares of Vista are down 3 percent since Feb. 28.
The NYT says Germany Acts to Tame Facebook, Learning From Its Own History of Hate. Security is tight at this brick building on the western edge of Berlin. Inside, a sign warns: “Everybody without a badge is a potential spy!” Spread over five floors, hundreds of men and women sit in rows of six scanning their computer screens. All have signed nondisclosure agreements. Four trauma specialists are at their disposal seven days a week. They are the agents of Facebook. And they have the power to decide what is free speech and what is hate speech. This is a deletion center, one of Facebook’s largest, with more than 1,200 content moderators. Germany, home to a tough new online hate speech law, has become a laboratory for one of the most pressing issues for governments today: how and whether to regulate the world’s biggest social network. In the country of the Holocaust, the commitment against hate speech is as fierce as the commitment to free speech. Hitler’s “Mein Kampf” is only available in an annotated version. Swastikas are illegal. Inciting hatred is punishable by up to five years in jail. Companies that systematically fail to remove “obviously illegal” content within 24 hours face fines of up to 50 million euros. Every day content moderators in Berlin, hired by a third-party firm and working exclusively on Facebook, pore over thousands of posts flagged by users as upsetting or potentially illegal and make a judgment: Ignore, delete or, in particularly tricky cases, “escalate” to a global team of Facebook lawyers with expertise in German regulation. On Dec. 31, the day before the new law took effect, a far-right lawmaker reacted to an Arabic New Year’s tweet from the Cologne police, accusing them of appeasing “barbaric, Muslim, gang-raping groups of men.” The request to block a screenshot of the lawmaker’s post wound up in the queue of Nils, a 35-year-old agent in the Berlin deletion center. His judgment was to let it stand. A colleague thought it should come down. Ultimately, the post was sent to lawyers in Dublin, London, Silicon Valley and Hamburg. By the afternoon it had been deleted, prompting a storm of criticism about the new legislation, known here as the “Facebook Law.” For 24 hours, the post kept Facebook lawyers from Silicon Valley to Hamburg busy. The Dublin team decided that the post did not violate community standards but sent it on for legal assessment by outside lawyers hired by Facebook in Germany. Within hours of news that the German police were opening a criminal investigation into Ms. von Storch over her comments, Facebook restricted access to the post. The user who reported the content was notified that it had been blocked for a violation of section 130 of the German criminal code, incitement to hatred. Ms. von Storch was also notified too.
Some of the most well-known Hollywood stars are sounding off about the Samantha Bee’s comments calling White House advisor Ivanka Trump a “cunt.” Prolific director Judd Apatow called the insult “right on target.” “It’s weird that Trump calls nations shitholes and people animals and rapists and sons of bitches and one strong word – which is right on target- is found offensive,” Apatow said. It’s weird that Trump calls nations shitholes and people animals and rapists and sons of bitches and one strong word – which is right on target- is found offensive. https://t.co/WWRT7H7ysg — Judd Apatow (@JuddApatow) May 31, 2018 Left-wing Academy Award-winning documentary filmmaker Michael Moore called Bee’s rant “brilliant.” “Ha! The White House today, still not denouncing Roseanne’s racism, tries to confuse the issue by going after Samantha Bee’s brilliant rant against Ivanka last night. Watch it here: https://youtu.be/b5f-uu1h8_w SAM BEE: TRUTH-TELLER!” Ha! The White House today, still not denouncing Roseanne’s racism, tries to confuse the issue by going after Samantha Bee’s brilliant rant against Ivanka last night. Watch it here: https://t.co/Y6yZVG6AjF SAM BEE: TRUTH-TELLER! — Michael Moore (@MMFlint) May 31, 2018 Infamous male feminist Joss Whedon thinks Bee was being “too kind.” Ivanka legitimized trump by being pretty & seeming sane, & libs created a (kinda sexist) Rapunzel narrative that she was ‘trapped’. She’s from a crime family, she married into a crime family, she’s a grown up. She will do as much damage as she can get away with. Sam was too kind. — Joss Whedon (@joss) May 31, 2018 Bee’s were met with extreme backlash from advertisers of her TBS late-night show to the White House. State Farm and Autotrader suspended their advertiser sponsorship with Full Frontal. Bee issued an apology, which was applauded by TBS. “Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night,” TBS said in a statement. “Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” Below is a roundup of celebrity reaction to Bee’s comment. Why the fuck say it in the first place if you're going to apologise when some people don't fucking like it? Fuck the whinging cunts. #cunts https://t.co/j5EoxdalFl — Ricky Gervais (@rickygervais) May 31, 2018 Not quite as offensive as making it policy to separate children from their parents. Which I interpreted as your entire point. This world has gone mad. Everyone. Every single one. https://t.co/vKZgJByPF8 — Sarah Silverman (@SarahKSilverman) May 31, 2018 . @iamsambee please do not apologize. — Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) May 31, 2018 I like Samantha Bee a lot, but she is flat wrong to call Ivanka a cunt. Cunts are powerful, beautiful, nurturing and honest. — Sally Field (@sally_field) May 31, 2018 That was the wrong word for Samantha Bee to have used . But mostly because ( to paraphrase the French ) Ivanka has neither the warmth nor the depth. — Minnie Driver (@driverminnie) May 31, 2018 Re: the Samantha Bee kerfuffle. Remember when Michelle Obama said, "When they go low, we go high"? Remember how well that worked for her husband during his Presidency? Remember how well it worked in 2016? Yeah, me neither. You know what works? Getting angry. Fighting back. — Gerry Conway (@gerryconway) May 31, 2018 This Samantha Bee thing is about racists denying racism. They’re not out to get her, they’re out to inflict more violence on Black Americans by pretending to not understand the difference between a white woman insulting another white woman and blatant racism. I don’t buy it. — Lexi Alexander ‎ (@Lexialex) May 31, 2018 but when she said it she … i mean, you can’t expect a comedian to play by the same … look, if we were in the u.k. and somebody used that word, we wouldn’t even … yeah, i got nothin … https://t.co/uzuJNjxyTZ — Don Cheadle (@DonCheadle) May 31, 2018 I wish 1992 Roseanne Barr was on Twitter because she's have her sister Samantha Bee's back & be freaking hilarious about it!!! — Tom Arnold (@TomArnold) May 31, 2018 We are all cunts today. ✊🏼 — Michael Ian Black (@michaelianblack) May 31, 2018 I hate that word, but Samantha Bee can use it however she wants. It’s not steeped in generations of racism and hate. It’s a vagina, for fuck’s sake. — Amy Berg (@bergopolis) May 31, 2018 I believe @therealroseanne also used that word to describe Hillary…in a tweet. https://t.co/rNtL1Phy8x — Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) May 31, 2018 Honestly I think Samantha Bee was being generous. — billy eichner (@billyeichner) May 31, 2018 If you’re scolding someone for using salty language, it just shows that you know you’ve lost the argument — Andy Richter (@AndyRichter) May 24, 2018
An Allegiant Air flight bound for Punta Gorda, Fla., was forced to make an emergency landing in Gainesville on Thursday morning after the pilot suffered a seizure midflight. Allegiant Air Flight 1304 had left from the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport just before 7 a.m., but diverted and landed at the Gainesville Regional Airport at around 8:30 a.m., WCPO reported. SOUTHWEST FLIGHT MAKES EMERGENCY LANDING; WITNESS SAYS PASSENGER WAS SMOKING POT Photos shared by the Gainesville Fire Rescue show emergency vehicles meeting the aircraft on the tarmac. GFR responders treated the pilot on the scene before transporting him to the hospital in stable condition. "Today on flight 1304 from Cincinnati to Punta Gorda, a pilot experienced a medical emergency," wrote Allegiant in a statement obtained by Fox News. "The crew acted quickly and diverted to Gainesville, Fla., to arrange immediate medical assistance. "The flight landed normally, and the pilot is being treated at a local hospital. He is in stable condition, and walked off the aircraft upon landing. The airline added that it provided lunch and compensation to the 155 passengers aboard the aircraft. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS A new crew has already arrived to take passengers the rest of the way to Punta Gorda, WCPO reported. The flight is expected to arrive at its original destination at 1:50 p.m.
To the casual observer, a law requiring layoffs of competent teachers while ineffective teachers stay employed might not seem like it is in the best interest of students. Enter the state of New Jersey, where the law requires exactly that. So six parents from Newark filed a lawsuit this month challenging the constitutionality of the state’s 2012 legislative overhaul of the tenure system, which made tenure more difficult to achieve while preserving the principle of last-in-first-out (LIFO) for teacher layoffs. Fareeah Harris, a parent plaintiff and mother of four with two children currently in the Newark public school system, told Watchdog.org she was “very confident” in the strength of the lawsuit. “The purpose of a teacher is to educate our kids,” said Harris. “It’s not an easy job, but for your job to be saved alone on your date of hire and it affects another being, I’m totally against it.” Harris said she decided to join the lawsuit after hearing about it during a workshop at a New Jersey parents’ summit. She called the whole idea of basing layoffs on seniority rather than merit “ludicrous.” “Our future matters and our children are our future,” said Harris. “They are in the hands of the parents and the teachers. Just as parents need to be effective, so do teachers. … My question is if you are not fulfilling your purpose why are you there?” The Partnership for Educational Justice is supporting the parents in the case, one of whom, Tanisha Garner, is the mother of the named plaintiff in the case against Kimberly Harrington, acting commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Education. The lawsuit asserts that New Jersey’s LIFO law violates students’ right to an education by unfairly requiring school districts to ignore teacher quality and retain ineffective teachers. The plaintiffs also argue against proposed budget cuts for Newark and other low-income school districts, in addition to asking that the State Education Commissioner be given authority to waive LIFO in Newark and similarly situated districts. ‘The best teachers possible’ In HG v. Harrington, the plaintiff parents argue against a recent filing from the New Jersey State Commissioner of Education to the New Jersey Supreme Court seeking to reopen a decades-old school funding case, Abbott v. Burke, which would remove the requirement for the state to provide extra funding to 31 of the state’s poorest school districts. The plaintiffs oppose the request and cite reports that Newark could lose almost 69 percent of its state education funding if the request is approved. The parents argue that the issues of state funding and teacher layoffs are bound together. Under the state’s LIFO law, 75 percent of teachers facing layoffs are either effective or highly effective, according to a layoff simulation done by Newark Public Schools in 2014. Only 4 percent of those laid off would be ineffective. Meanwhile, Newark’s public school teaching staff during the same year was 15 percent ineffective overall. Therefore, according to Ralia Polechronis, executive director of the Partnership for Educational Justice, by the school district’s own admission, LIFO policies are negatively affecting students. “That in and of itself is an indication of the strength of the case,” said Polechronis. Similar cases have been filed in California, New York and Minnesota. Supporters of LIFO say it provides important protections for teachers. In a statement released Nov. 1, the day the lawsuit was filed, New Jersey Education Association President Wendell Steinhauer argued that teachers might be removed from their posts for politically motivated reasons if the seniority rules do not remain intact. “Tenure is difficult to obtain in New Jersey, so no teacher gets tenure without demonstrating an ability to do the job well,” he said. “Even more, the tenure law outlines a specific and fair process to remove a teacher who is ineffective at any time. What the law prevents is the sort of political interference that would be inevitable if administrators could be pressured to fire teachers without having to give a reason. This lawsuit seeks to throw out that system of checks and balances and give unfettered freedom to fire excellent veteran teachers in favor of less experienced newer teachers who earn lower salaries.” New Jersey is one of 10 states with LIFO rules for teachers. ­ “In no instance should we forget that at the center of this fight is that kids in public schools deserve to be taught by the best teachers possible,” said Polechronis.
“We remain duty bound to honor those who made the ultimate sacrifice on our behalf and to remember them with thankfulness and unwavering pride,” Trump wrote in the proclamation, setting May 28, 2018, as Memorial Day. The president also asked Americans to “unite in prayer for lasting peace in our troubled world so that future generations will enjoy the blessings of liberty and independence.” Read the full proclamation released by the White House below: On Memorial Day, we pause in solemn gratitude to pay tribute to the brave patriots who laid down their lives defending peace and freedom while in military service to our great Nation. We set aside this day to honor their sacrifice and to remind all Americans of the tremendous price of our precious liberty. Throughout the history of our Republic, courageous Americans have purchased our cherished freedom with their lives. Our 151 national cemeteries serve as the final resting place for millions of people, including veterans from every war and conflict, many of whom died while serving our country. We remain duty bound to honor those who made the ultimate sacrifice on our behalf and to remember them with thankfulness and unwavering pride. The fallen — our treasured loved ones, friends, neighbors, and fellow citizens — deserve nothing less from a grateful Nation. We must safeguard the legacies of our service members so that our children and our grandchildren will understand the sacrifices of our Armed Forces. As a part of this effort, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is working to keep the memories of our fallen heroes from ever fading away. The National Cemetery Administration’s Veterans Legacy Program challenges our youth, from elementary school through college, to research and share the stories and sacrifice of their hometown veterans, who are forever honored at VA National, State, and tribal veterans cemeteries. To further ensure that our veterans’ legacies are remembered and celebrated, this program is developing an online memorialization platform that will amplify the voices of families, survivors, and Gold Star parents and spouses as they honor our beloved veterans and fallen service members. Today, and every day, we revere those who have died in noble service to our country. I call upon all Americans to remember the selfless service members who have been laid to rest in flag-draped coffins and their families who have suffered the greatest loss. The sacrifices of our hallowed dead demand our Nation’s highest honor and deepest gratitude. On this day, let us also unite in prayer for lasting peace in our troubled world so that future generations will enjoy the blessings of liberty and independence. In honor and recognition of all of our fallen heroes, the Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 11, 1950, as amended (36 U.S.C. 116), has requested the President issue a proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for permanent peace and designating a period on that day when the people of the United States might unite in prayer. The Congress, by Public Law 106-579, has also designated 3:00 p.m. local time on that day as a time for all Americans to observe, in their own way, the National Moment of Remembrance. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Memorial Day, May 28, 2018, as a day of prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each locality at 11:00 a.m. of that day as a time when people might unite in prayer. I further ask all Americans to observe the National Moment of Remembrance beginning at 3:00 p.m. local time on Memorial Day. I also request the Governors of the United States and its Territories, and the appropriate officials of all units of government, to direct the flag be flown at half-staff until noon on this Memorial Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the United States and in all areas under its jurisdiction and control. I also request the people of the United States to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the customary forenoon period. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand eighteen, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-second. DONALD J. TRUMP
As President Trump considers or moves forward with pardons for Dinesh D’Souza, Martha Stewart, and former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich, it’s worth taking a step back to review one of the most controversial presidential pardons in recent history -- Barack Obama’s January 2017 commutation of the 55-year sentence of Puerto Rican terrorist Oscar Lopez Rivera, one of the principal leaders of the Fuerzas Armadas de Liberación Nacional (FALN). During the group’s heyday from 1974 to 1983, the FALN was responsible for more than 130 bombings across the United States, the deadliest of which was the 1975 Fraunces Tavern bombing in Manhattan that killed four people and wounded 63 more. In the following years, FALN members threatened to blow up U.S. nuclear facilities, kidnapped Democratic and Republican presidential campaign workers at gunpoint during the 1980 race, and even planned to kidnap President Reagan’s son Ron in 1981. The FALN’s stated purpose for all this mayhem and terror was to create a Marxist and independent government in Puerto Rico similar to that of the communist Castro regime in Cuba. While the above activities were taking place, Lopez was at the top of the FALN’s chain of command and played a primary role in training new terrorist members to construct homemade explosive devices and conduct bombing attacks. Lopez was also involved in planning armed robberies to help fill the financial coffers of the group, thereby enabling it to actively and continuously carry out terrorist attacks over the years of its existence. In May 1981, Lopez’s infamous career was brought to an end when police arrested him at a traffic stop after catching him with a fake ID and a pistol with a filed-down serial number. Using the address provided by Lopez’s fake ID, Chicago police searched the apartment there and found a cache of explosives, blasting caps, timers, and an instructional manual for bomb-making. Five years earlier, Lopez had first gone into hiding from authorities after a similar “bomb factory” was discovered in his apartment (also in Chicago) by federal investigators. Despite the strong circumstantial evidence against him, Lopez was never conclusively connected to any specific bombing, but was still convicted of “seditious conspiracy,” attempted robbery, grand theft auto, and the illegal possession of weapons and explosives. Lopez’s initial 55-year prison sentence was extended another 15 years in 1987 after Lopez and two Weather Underground terrorists were caught plotting to fly a helicopter loaded with machine guns and hand grenades into Lopez’s prison yard at Leavenworth. Lopez intended to use the weapons cache to murder the prison’s guards, make his escape, and then go back into hiding to carry on his communist struggle against the United States. Even with his astonishing record of murder and treason, Lopez attracted a great deal of support from the mainstream American Left and the Democratic Party when Obama commuted the FALN leader’s sentence. According to Politico [emphasis mine]: Obama’s decision was greeted with elation. Spontaneous celebrations broke out in San Juan. Luis Gutiérrez, a Democratic congressman from Illinois who represents the West Side Chicago neighborhood in which Lopez grew up, said in a statement that he was “overjoyed and overwhelmed” by Lopez’s release. “Oscar is a friend, a mentor, and family to me,” wrote Gutierrez.According to the New York Daily News, Melissa Mark-Viverito, the speaker of the New York City Council and a rising Democratic Party star, cried when she heard the news, calling Lopez’s release “incredible” and a “morale boost” for Puerto Rico. Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, who lobbied hard for Lopez’s commutation, and New York Mayor Bill de Blasio both offered Obama their thanks.And Lin Manuel Miranda, who has been a vocal proponent for Lopez, tweeted that he was “sobbing with gratitude.” (He furthermore added that he would reprise his role in “Hamilton” for one night in Chicago in Lopez’s honor.) Lopez’s supporters refer to him as a “political prisoner” or “independence activist,” and characterize him as a man unfairly and harshly targeted by the U.S. government for his beliefs. He has even been called “Puerto Rico’s Nelson Mandela.” Lopez’s supporters’ reference to Nelson Mandela was, incidentally, quite apt given Mandela’s 1964 conviction for planning bombing attacks in South Africa as the leader of the communist paramilitary group Umkhonto we Sizwe (the armed wing of the ANC, which eventually took power in the 1990s). Regardless, disingenuously whitewashing Lopez’s crimes can do nothing to erase either the seriousness or the severity of his and the FALN’s heinous actions, but it does starkly reveal the nature of the far left in this country and the tilt of its moral compass.
After decades in the political realm, including two presidential campaigns, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has repeatedly proclaimed her desire to remain an active voice in American politics. As she looks to a future in the private sector, many supporters and critics alike have speculated about what her next role could be. She recently offered one possible option during a question-and-answer session at Harvard University. Clinton was at the Massachusetts college on Friday to accept the Radcliffe Award. During the ceremony, state Attorney General Maura Healey asked her which company she would most want to lead as chief executive officer. “Facebook,” she replied after a brief pause. The former first lady and U.S. senator went on to explain her reasoning. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed “I just want to add, it’s the biggest news platform in the world,” she said. Clinton acknowledged that there is plenty of valuable and informative journalism outside of the social media platform, but noted that Facebook is simply where the majority of news consumers congregate. “I mean, we can listen to really brilliant, experienced writers like David Ignatius and we can try to keep up with the news, but most people in our country get their news, true or not, from Facebook,” she said. Facebook executives, including CEO Mark Zuckerberg, have faced intense scrutiny from U.S. lawmakers and others for the company’s policies regarding private user data. Would Facebook improve with Hillary Clinton as its CEO? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Though it is just one of several tech giants facing such criticism, Facebook has made public statements pledging to provide more transparency and privacy to the billions who use it. Others, including Clinton, have blamed the company for potentially impacting the 2016 presidential race by allowing false or misleading news stories to proliferate through its massive global reach. While she credited the company for taking steps to address these concerns, Clinton apparently thinks she could implement additional useful ideas as its CEO. “Now Facebook is trying to, you know, take on some of the unexpected consequences of their business model,” she said. “And I, for one, hope they get it right.” In light of the influence of social media and the rampant distrust of news media sources in general, Clinton and others believe it is incumbent on Facebook and other companies to step up as a responsible steward. RELATED: DOJ Inspector Finishes Review of Hillary Probe, Expected To Be Released to Congress Soon “Because it really is critical to our democracy that people get accurate information on which to make decisions,” she said. Clinton took aim at Facebook’s public-relations problems in her commencement speech at Yale University’s Class Day last week. "Some of your parents and grandparents may remember flyers and bulletin boards," Hillary Clinton says at Yale University's Class Day. “It was like Facebook, but the bulletin board didn’t steal your personal information” #tictocnews pic.twitter.com/tKCU02sMpe — TicToc by Bloomberg (@tictoc) May 20, 2018 “It was also here at Yale that I saw a flyer in the law school on a bulletin board that changed my life,” she said. “Now, some of your parents and grandparents may remember flyers and bulletin boards. For the rest of you, suffice it to say that was how we got information. It was like Facebook, but the bulletin board didn’t steal your personal information.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Illinois lawmakers are pushing to keep governments from suing citizens for challenging the legality of a new tax. In the wake of Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle’s punitive lawsuit against a group that challenged the legality of her penny-per-ounce tax on sweetened drinks, state Rep. Keith Wheeler, R-Oswego, sponsored a bill that would ban the practice. Preckwinkle sought $17 million from the Illinois Retail Merchants’ Association for challenging the constitutionality of the tax and holding up collections for a month. The county eventually withdrew its retribution request against IRMA. Wheeler says a government shouldn’t be able to use the legal system to punish a citizen challenging its authority. “A lot of people have given the ultimate sacrifice to ensure that our liberties are intact and this is one way to start taking them away,” he said. “If you can stop people from asking questions about a tax, you can stop them from asking about anything. That’s a horrible precedent to set.” Preckwinkle withdrew her lawsuit earlier this month after receiving criticism for filing it in the first place. The penny-per-ounce tax adds $1.44 to the cost of a 12-pack of canned soda, or 68 cents to a 2-liter bottle. It also is imposed on fountain drinks. Wheeler’s bill is waiting a committee assignment in the state House.
This policy is intended to address Vermont's aging population. While the state may be rich in beautiful landscapes and maple syrup, it has a rapidly shrinking tax base. "Vermont continues to age, and age faster than the nation as a whole," writes Art Woolf for the Burlington Free Press. "Over the past quarter of a century, the median age nationally has increased by almost five years to 37.8 while Vermont's has increased by 10 years." This trend has made Vermont one of the oldest states in the nation. In addition to the remote worker grant program, the bill also launches the state's Stay-to-Stay initiative. The program, aimed at convincing the state's 13 million annual tourists to permanently relocate to Vermont, will be organized by the Vermont Department of Tourism and Marketing and will connect visitors with local employers, entrepreneurs, community leaders and potential neighbors. "We have about 16,000 fewer workers than we did in 2009. That's why expanding our workforce is one of the top priorities of my administration," Scott said in a statement. "We must think outside the box to help more Vermonters enter the labor force and attract more working families and young professionals to Vermont. That's exactly what the Department of Tourism and Marketing did with this program for out-of-state visitors who may be interested in living full-time in Vermont, and I'm excited to see it move forward." The initiative will take place over four weekends and will be piloted in three communities. One of those selected communities is Brattleboro, Vermont. "The one thing we need more of in Vermont is people," says Adam Grinold, executive director of the Brattleboro Development Credit Corporation. "We need more visitors, we need more employees, we need more business owners. We need more people." Like this story? Like CNBC Make It on Facebook Don't miss:
Families of students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School -- where a former student allegedly killed 17 people in February -- have banded together to create a political action committee (PAC) to counter the National Rifle Association (NRA) and candidates it backs. The Families Versus Assault Rifles PAC -- or FAMSVARPAC -- aims to “remove the NRA from our political system, and then to amend the National Firearms Act of 1934 to include a ban on assault weapons, bump stocks and high-capacity magazines,” according to its website. Jeff Kasky's two children were inside the Parkland, Florida, high school the day of the shooting, WPEC-TV reported. One of his kids, Cameron, has become a March for Our Lives activist since the tragedy. But now, Kasky said, it’s the parents’ turn. “The parents who have been supporting the activist students have been supporting them in any way we can: emotional support, driving them around, giving money for gas and traveling with them,” Kasky told Fox News. “We feel we owe our children an apology for letting the situation get to where the NRA has been allowed to take over portions of our government. This is our way of expressing our need to make amends to the students.” “We feel we owe our children an apology for letting the situation get to where the NRA has been allowed to take over portions of our government. This is our way of expressing our need to make amends to the students.” - Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Jeff Kasky Kasky said he wanted to make it clear that group’s goal is not to “take away anyone’s Second Amendment rights.” He said the organization is made up of a variety of parents -- including some gun owners, such as himself. “We do not wish to affect the Second Amendment in any way, shape or form,” Kasky said. The ultimate goal of the PAC, he said, is to change the National Firearms Act of 1934 to include a ban on the most dangerous firearms. In order to do that, he said, there needs to be more likeminded lawmakers in office. “We need to get the NRA-funded politicians out of office,” he said. While the PAC will actively oppose certain NRA-backed politicians, it will not support any political candidate, Kasky said. “We echo the words from the March for Our Lives: ‘Either change the law or change the lawmakers.’ We plan to do both,” FAMSVARPAC said on its website. The PAC encourages donations of $17, in honor of the 17 victims of the Parkland shooting. According to the Miami Herald, the super PAC registered with the federal government on May 18 -- the same day 10 people died in a school shooting in Texas. None of the parents involved with the PAC are receiving financial compensation, Kasky said.
LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. — Authorities say a Tesla sedan in Autopilot mode has crashed into a parked police cruiser in Southern California. Police Sgt. Jim Cota says the officer was not in the cruiser during the crash Tuesday in Laguna Beach. He says the Tesla driver suffered minor injuries. The police SUV ended up with its two passenger-side wheels on a sidewalk. Tesla’s semi-autonomous Autopilot mode has come under scrutiny following other recent crashes. The carmaker says the function is not designed to avoid a collision and warns drivers not to rely on it entirely.
The jury weighing corruption charges against former Nassau County Executive Edward Mangano said it was at an impasse on Wednesday — one day after starting over from scratch following the replacement of a panelist. The eighth day of deliberations saw the jury send out a note at about 12:30 p.m. stating, “We are deadlocked.” In response, Central Islip federal Judge Joan Azrack urged the jurors — midway through their 12th week of service — to try again to reach a verdict, saying: “There is no reason to believe this [case] can be tried any better or more ­exhaustively than it has been.” The jury didn’t send out any more notes before being dismissed at 5 p.m., and was due to resume deliberations Thursday.
A man who was hailed as a hero after scaling a building to save a child dangling from a Paris balcony will be granted French citizenship and was offered a job as a firefighter. Mamoudou Gassama, 22, a Malian illegal migrant, met with French President Emmanuel Macron Monday at the Elysee Palace, just two days after his daring rescue was captured in a now-viral video. Gassama scaled four floors of a building in northern Paris on Saturday to save a 4-year-old boy, Sky News reported. "I just didn't have time to think, I ran across the road to go and save him,” Gassama told Macron during the meeting. "I just climbed up and thank God, God helped me. The more I climbed the more I had the courage to climb up higher, that's it.” WATCH: HEROIC GEORGIA COP USES CPR TO SAVE CHOKING INFANT A man in the neighboring balcony was attempting to hold the child up before Gassama reached out with his right arm and pulled the child to safety. Gassama, who was dubbed a “real-life Spiderman,” said the boy was crying and had an injured foot. Bystanders captured the rescue on video, which was viewed millions of times on social media platforms. Macron called Gassama’s actions an “exceptional act.” "You saved a child. Without you, no one knows what would have become of him,” Macron said. "You need courage and the capability to do that." TEXAS MAN'S ACT OF KINDNESS FOR ELDERLY WOMAN GOES VIRAL The French president said Gassama, who was in France illegally, will be granted citizenship and offered a new job with the Paris fire brigade. Gassama had arrived in Paris a few months ago in hopes of starting a new life, Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo told Sky News. "I told him that his heroic act is an example to all citizens and that the city of Paris will obviously be very keen to support him in his efforts to settle in France,” Hidalgo said. Macron also gave Gassama a medal and certificate for his bravery. Police later questioned the boy’s father for leaving the child unattended. The boy’s mother was reportedly not in Paris at the time.
Martin Sorrell is staging a comeback just six weeks after he was ousted from WPP, using the same formula as in the 1980s when he transformed a little-known shell company into the world’s biggest advertising group. One of Britain’s best known businessmen, Sorrell said he would invest 40 million pounds ($53 million) of his own money into Derriston Capital while institutional investors have pledged 150 million pounds ($199 million) to buy marketing companies. The London-listed group will be renamed S4 Capital, in reference to four generations of Sorrell’s family, while he will become executive chairman. Its next moves are likely to be closely watched in an industry facing questions over whether the ad guru’s model is still the best way to deliver ad, marketing, research data and media buying in a digital world. WPP and its peers have struggled in recent years as major consumer goods groups such as Unilever trimmed spending on marketing and took some services in house, while consultancies such as Accenture have stepped up competition and Facebook and Google dominate the online ad market. “S4 Capital is a company that aims to build a multi-national communication services business focused on growth,” the 73-year-old said. “There are significant opportunities for development in technology, data and content.” Taking charge of a listed shell company repeats the tactic Sorrell used in the 1980s when he took a stake in Wire and Plastics Products, a maker of shopping baskets, and used it as a vehicle to buy some of the most famous advertising agencies such as JWT and Ogilvy & Mather. Sorrell quit WPP after the board opened an investigation into an allegation of personal misconduct. The company has not given any details and Sorrell has denied any wrongdoing. He told staff he had stepped down because the disruption was putting too much pressure on the business.
In a midterm update of the “Rich States, Poor States” measure of economic competitiveness, economists for the American Legislative Exchange Council said taxpayers won some significant policy battles — while losing some others — in 2016 legislative sessions. Authors Arthur Laffer, Stephen Moore and Jonathan Williams argue that states that adopt free-market-friendly policies tend to experience more growth and a rosier economic outlook. In the ninth edition of “Rich States, Poor States,” Utah, North Carolina and North Dakota topped the list, while New Jersey, Vermont and New York found themselves at the bottom. An update released Friday points to recent wins in lowering taxes and removing forced unionism policies in the months since the report was released. Last week, Missouri became the 28th state to adopt a right-to-work law, following Kentucky’s passage earlier this year, with New Hampshire seriously considering a similar statute. RELATED: Missouri becomes 28th right-to-work state Mississippi received high marks in the ALEC update for its “Taxpayer Pay Raise Act,” which reformed the state’s tax system while also promising $415 million in tax relief over the next decade. The changes to state law include the phase-out of the 3 percent personal income tax bracket and the Mississippi franchise tax, as well as the creation of a tax deduction for a portion of the federal self-employment tax. “While some of the benefits of this significant reform will take a few years for taxpayers to feel, the steps Mississippi has taken to make it a more attractive home for businesses are sure to aid in growing the state’s economy,” the authors wrote. North Carolina also got high marks for continuing to implement tax reforms that have saved state taxpayers an estimated $2 billion since 2011. The Tar Heel State has jumped in the economic outlook rankings from 26th to second during that span. The authors also pointed to Tennessee, where a bipartisan coalition of legislators passed a bill to eliminate a tax that is assessed on all income earned from investments, capital gains and savings. ALEC notes many payers of this tax include “hopeful entrepreneurs, working-class families, retirees and soon-to-be retirees who especially depend on their savings and investments for retirement.” This levy, known as the Hall Income Tax, will be phased out over six years. Some states are headed the other direction. The authors point to Louisiana’s $1.5 billion in tax hikes in 2016, which followed an additional $720 million in taxes approved in 2015, in an effort to shore up a budget shortfall. Meanwhile, employment is tanking, with 18,000 fewer people with jobs in the state in September 2016 compared to 12 months earlier. “Jobs, and therefore taxpayers, are not fleeing Louisiana for lack of taxpayer investment in social programs and infrastructure as some insinuate — but rather, because the tax burdens for such programs continue to worsen,” the authors wrote. Meanwhile, Alaskan taxpayers dodged a big tax increase. Gov. Bill Walker wanted to reinstate the state’s personal income tax, but lawmakers rebuffed his goals. Although the authors commended Walker for pushing fiscal reform in a state with an estimated $4 billion deficit, they said bringing back the personal income tax is not the answer.
Tomi Lahren: Great Week for Trump, Bad Week for Iran, 'Fake News Media' & Obama's Legacy 'Made in USA' Used to Mean Something: Tomi Lahren Says Trump Must Act to Help Cattle Ranchers On the 70th anniversary of Israel’s founding, Donald Trump delivered on his promise to move the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. It’s a truly historic action – one his three predecessors promised, but never fulfilled. It’s time for Final Thoughts. Along with Trump's tough North Korea diplomacy and his decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal, the embassy move represents a return to common sense diplomacy, after decades of frustrating inaction and retreat. The old U.S. apology and appeasement act is finally over. The left has already declared this embassy move disastrous for the peace process. But excuse me - what peace process? The peace process where Palestinian protesters light buildings on fire? The peace process where rockets and explosives are hurled over the Israeli border? The peace process where protesters set fire to the pipeline that brings gas and oil from Israel to Gaza - for the second time in two weeks? Are the Palestinians really interested in peace? You tell me. The Palestinians can no longer continuously reject peace offers and rely on terrorism, knowing they will suffer no consequences. The embassy move symbolizes a return to common sense and fairness. That makes peace more, not less, likely. If Palestinians weren’t so comfortable playing the victim and instead acted rationally, they could welcome this - and demand big Israeli concessions in exchange. Trump would likely pressure Israel into granting them. Look, I get it - the Israel-Palestinian conflict is not black and white. But for goodness sakes, don’t drink the liberal media Kool-aid on this one. Hamas, a designated terror organization that rules Gaza, is committed to Israel’s destruction. And they have been since before they violently took control there in 2007, two years after Israel withdrew its military and civilian presence. Israel and Egypt maintain a security blockade of Gaza. Why? Because Hamas and other Palestinian groups have fired thousands of rockets at Israel, and built dozens of attack tunnels under the border. And Hamas, like most Islamic terror groups, uses innocent people to carry out their reign of terror, even using children as human shields. What we are seeing in Gaza aren’t just normal street demonstrations. They’re attacks - disguised as mass protests. Organizing “Days of Rage” sure doesn’t sound like a step toward compromise, and that's too bad. BUT ... the Israeli Defense Forces shouldn't be expected to sit back and allow 100,000-plus “protesters” to threaten security barriers, and wreak havoc. That's what happened today, when dozens of Palestinians were killed in clashes with Israeli forces. For too long, Arab anger and threats have determined the West's diplomacy. Trump is showing the world he is not afraid. Happy anniversary, Israel. We have your back. Those are my Final Thoughts. From LA, God Bless and take care. Tomi Lahren to Conservatives, Trump Supporters: 'Don't Attach Yourself to Kanye' Tomi Lahren on Michelle Wolf's Performance: 'Trump Didn’t Create Leftist Media’s Ugly Side, He Just Exposed It'
Fox News Insider set the alarm to catch up with one of the fresh faces of Fox News Channel's live morning coverage. New Jersey native Carley Shimkus shared some fun facts about her family, how she started at Fox News Channel and her love of Michigan football. 1. My parents met on an airplane in 1982. My mom was a flight attendant for United Airlines and my dad was a passenger. She jokes it would have been love at first sight if not for his polyester shirt. I also have an older sister who is an incredible artist and art teacher. 2. My career at Fox News started even before I graduated college. I worked as an intern at the D.C. bureau in 2008. I had such a good experience that I decided to apply for a job after graduation. 3. I met my husband, Pete, on my 23rd birthday. We got married in August, 2015 in my home state of New Jersey. ‎ We are both diehard Michigan football fans and even walked out to the Michigan fight song on our wedding day. Go Blue!! 4. One of the most frequently asked questions I get on social media is about my height. I’m 5’10’’ but heels, of course, elevate me a few more inches. Here I am with one of my best friends on her wedding day... 5. Because of my height, I figured I’d give modeling a try when I was in high school. It was a fun experience but not in the cards for me. Here I am in an ad for a costume store. My family still gets a kick out of this picture and likes to pass it around from time to time. Catch Carley Shimkus weekday mornings from 4am to 6am ET on "Fox & Friends First." Follow Carley on Twitter and Instagram! See more about your favorite Fox News hosts... Judge Jeanine Tomi Lahren Shannon Bream Sandra Smith Harris Faulkner
Next Monday during its developer conference Apple will introduce a new feature for iPhones and iPads called "Digital Health," Bloomberg said on Thursday. Digital Health — said to launch as part of Apple's new iOS 12 operating system — will reportedly help users manage how much time they spend on their iPhones and iPads with tools that show how long users spend inside apps, according to Bloomberg. Apple will add other features, including new tools for tracking the stock market, Bloomberg said. Google introduced similar features when it unveiled the new version of Android, currently named Android P, earlier this month. Android P has an app dashboard that will show users how much time they spend inside each app. It will also let Android users set time limits for apps, which means users won't be able to access them after they've used them for a predetermined time during the day. Android P will introduce a "Do Not Disturb" mode that silences all notifications and a "Wind Down" function that turns the phone grayscale at a predetermined time so that people can prepare to go to sleep at night. Apple typically announces the new version of its operating system during its developer conference and then rolls it out to consumers in the fall. Apple was not immediately available to comment. Read the full report on Bloomberg.
The journey for a young child diagnosed with cancer is heartbreaking. Their strength is astounding as they undergo constant testing and treatments to give them hope for a future. While it may be difficult at times for these children to live out a “normal” childhood, those watching over them often do all they can to make their journey a bit less frightening. One little girl named Sophia is certainly showcasing her strength after her diagnosis with a rare disease called Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis. When Dr. Paulo Martins brought out his ukelele in the hospital to cheer up older patients, Sophia soon heard him playing and started looking for him. TRENDING: Mother Cries Tears of Joy After Daughter Who Went Missing 24 Years Ago is Found When Dr. Martins realized what she was trying to do, her visited the pediatric oncology ward to play a song just for her. And as soon as the music began to play, the joy was clear on Sophia’s face. The little girl almost immediately began to dance, the music taking away her thoughts of pain and treatments. Her subtle wiggles quickly turned into energized dance moves as the little girl entertained a growing crowd. Many other hospitals are taking note of the idea that just a little love can brighten any young cancer patient’s day. Take Brazil’s recently renamed Hospital of Love, which encourages an emphasis on love during such a difficult time for a child. The hospital created a video and composed a song just to depict how healing the power of love can be. “Winning cancer is much easier when we are surrounded by much affection and care,” the hospital explained. “In more than 50 years of history, our institution has always endeavored to offer highly qualified, humanized and full of love.” RELATED: Wife Slips into Coma Days After Giving Birth, Husband Sings at Bedside Before She Passes Away In the video a young girl diagnosed with cancer is quickly plunged into fear when faced with the thought of battling the disease. But soon, the love of her family, doctors, and more along her journey pull her up and away from the darkness and back to those who love her. While a child’s journey through cancer is difficult, it’s heartwarming to see how seemingly small moments of love and support can make all the difference in the world to them. Submit your story here, and subscribe to our best uplifting stories here. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Get the new app Now it's even easier to keep up with the latest celebrity news and juicy gossip.
Director Joss Whedon defended comedian Samantha Bee Thursday, arguing the TBS late-night host was “too kind” in calling White House senior aide Ivanka Trump a “feckless c*nt.” “Ivanka legitimized trump by being pretty & seeming sane, & libs created a (kinda sexist) Rapunzel narrative that she was ‘trapped,’” Whedon tweeted. “She’s from a crime family, she married into a crime family, she’s a grown up.” The Avengers director then warned the President’s daughter “will do as much damage as she can get away with.” “Sam was too kind.” Ivanka legitimized trump by being pretty & seeming sane, & libs created a (kinda sexist) Rapunzel narrative that she was ‘trapped’. She’s from a crime family, she married into a crime family, she’s a grown up. She will do as much damage as she can get away with. Sam was too kind. — Joss Whedon (@joss) May 31, 2018 Whedon’s comments echo similar hot takes tweeted by actresses Sally Field and Minnie Driver Thursday, who both said the profane insult is too complimentary for Ivanka. “I like Samantha Bee a lot, but she is flat wrong to call Ivanka a c*nt,” Field said, adding, “c*nts are powerful, beautiful, nurturing and honest.” I like Samantha Bee a lot, but she is flat wrong to call Ivanka a cunt. Cunts are powerful, beautiful, nurturing and honest. — Sally Field (@sally_field) May 31, 2018 Minutes later, Driver chimed in. “That was the wrong word for Samantha Bee to have used,” she wrote on Twitter. “But mostly because ( to paraphrase the French ) Ivanka has neither the warmth nor the depth.” That was the wrong word for Samantha Bee to have used . But mostly because ( to paraphrase the French ) Ivanka has neither the warmth nor the depth. — Minnie Driver (@driverminnie) May 31, 2018 The TBS late-night host branded Ivanka Trump a “feckless c*nt” after she tweeted a loving photograph of herself holding her young son. Still outraged over the cancellation of Roseanne, Bee’s attack was met by a fiery backlash from conservatives. Only after Autotrader suspended its advertising on the program Full Frontal did the comedian apologize. “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it,” Bee said. TBS issued its own apology, admitting the foul-mouthed attack “should not have been aired.” “Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night. Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” Neither Turner nor its parent company Time Warner have indicated that CEO Jeff Bewkes will follow the lead of Disney CEO Bob Iger, who personally called Valerie Jarrett to apologize for a tweet from Roseanne Barr, who then worked for Disney subsidiary ABC.
There was a time not long ago that it appeared as if B.J. Goodson had earned a spot on “The Voice.’’ This had nothing to do with his ability to carry a tune and everything to do with his ability to carry to his teammates the message imparted by the defensive coordinator. Goodson was the coach on the field, the man in the middle, the player with the radio transmitter in his helmet, entrusted with relaying the defensive call coming into his ears to the defensive players in the huddle. When the need arose to change the play once he deciphered what the opposing offense was cooking up, Goodson barked out those instructions for all to hear. No longer is Goodson the point-man and no longer will he be needed as the great communicator on the field. The Giants do not have one man in the middle, they have two, with Goodson and Alec Ogletree as the starting inside linebackers in their 3-4 front. Ogletree, based on his experience — he’s entering his sixth NFL season — and his track record with the Rams, is the new leader of the defense. His is the voice that will be heard as he alerts his new teammates the wishes of James Bettcher, the new defensive coordinator. For now, Goodson has been silenced and that, he admits, is an adjustment he must make. “It is,’’ Goodson said Tuesday after the Giants fourth organized team activity practice of the spring. “But I’m embracing it and I’m enjoying it.’’ Really, what choice does he have? At this time last year, the Giants were raving about Goodson’s leadership initiative and his prowess putting in motion the attack former coordinator Steve Spagnuolo wanted to see on the field. There was so much promise after Goodson embarked on his second NFL season as the starting middle linebacker and chased nearly everything down in the opener, amassing 18 tackles — 14 solo — in a loss to the Cowboys. Goodson played so hard and so fiercely that he suffered a lower leg injury and missed the next two games. So it went for him during a 2017 season to forget. On the field, off the field, suffering an ankle injury, rehabbing, missing practice, starting a game but not finishing it. He appeared in only seven games before finally landing on injured reserve. Goodson is not interested in harping on all that went wrong. He called it “part of the game,’’ and preferred to focus on a happier thought: Tuesday was his 25th birthday. “A clean slate, but just pressing forward, day after day, and obviously today is a great day,’’ he said. “I’m feeling great, and that’s all that matters — pressing forward day-by-day and getting better.’’ Goodson is receiving a fresh start in that his physical ailments are healed and the new coaching regime is reaping the benefits of his sideline-to-sideline hustle and nasty on-field disposition. “It’s a clean slate all the way around, so the guys that were injured a year ago are fighting their way back to get healthy again,’’ head coach Pat Shurmur said, “and some of those injuries are not things they’re going to repeat.’’ see also The Giants Shurmur should tap for reborn leadership council Pat Shurmur has been The Great Communicator, determined to build... Shurmur said Goodson “has been doing really well out here.’’ The Giants envision Ogletree and Goodson controlling the middle of the field. This tag-team approach is new for Goodson, but he senses it could be good for him. “It’s like having another [middle linebacker] in the game,’’ Goodson said. “It’s a difference and it makes it take a little bit of pressure off. Also when one is a little off, it’s great that we have the other one there to have one’s back. It’s great.’’ Goodson, a 2016 fourth-round pick from Clemson, realizes Ogletree is an established, proven player and the trade to get him from the Rams did not come at the expense of his own spot in the lineup. There is room for two, and now Goodson must show he can stay healthy and flash the playmaking ability he displayed early last season. “I’m looking forward to us as a unit playing fast, playing hard,’’ Goodson said. “Just being hard-nosed and being about that Giant culture.’’
Maybe Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie is just playing his cards close to his chest and working for a compromise on the long-stalled child-sex-trafficking bill without giving any public sign of it. Thing is, time’s running out: The legislative session is scheduled to end by June 20, and word is that it may finish even sooner. Which is fine — if lawmakers get their jobs done. But victim advocates and prosecutors both want the End Child Trafficking Act passed. It would bring New York into line with federal laws that define anyone who pimps out minors as a sex trafficker, because kids can’t legally consent to prostituting themselves to adults. Yet Heastie’s Assembly has been blocking the reform for years. And now the speaker will only tell The Post that he’s still worried the bill’s broad language could ensnare innocents: “We just would really like the bill to go at those people who are intentionally, knowingly, willingly profiting or supporting the trafficking of young girls.” But how hard can it be to find language so the law won’t be used against women who are themselves trafficking victims? To be fair, we hear that negotiations toward a compromise are indeed showing promise. But they need to finish before the clock runs out. And it’s all on Heastie to see that they do.
A house at 20 Hook Pond Lane in East Hampton whose massive size has previously enraged neighbors — including Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont and ex-presidential candidate — is on the market for $17.5 million. The seller is developer Jeffrey Schneider, who bought the property for $5.95 million last year. Many locals also didn’t like that the zoning board granted Schneider permission to build a 748-square-foot garage in the front yard as part of a new house on the property. (Dean’s family has owned a place nearby for many years.) But not all have objected. Steve Raia, a partner at Il Mulino, the Italian restaurant that opened over Memorial Day weekend in nearby Wainscott, recently toured the property. The home was once owned by Dwight Chapin, who worked as deputy assistant to disgraced President Richard Nixon during the Watergate scandal. The 10,000-square-foot home with seven bedrooms sits on 1.6 acres, and comes with views of Hook Pond and the Atlantic Ocean. Extravagant details include a 133-inch projection television, a glass-encased wine cellar, a gym, a steam room and an infrared sauna. A third-floor observation deck features a gas fireplace and a wet bar. There’s also an outdoor kitchen, a pool and a pool house. The listing brokers are Corcoran’s Charlie Esposito and Debbie Brenneman.
On Tuesday night, Fox News' Tucker Carlson had California Rep. Eric Swalwell (D) on his show to discuss Swalwell's proposed gun confiscation plan. Earlier this month, Swalwell penned an OpEd in USA Today, where he details exactly how he wants the federal government to take law-abiding gun owners' firearms. Here's what Swalwell proposes: Reinstating the federal assault weapons ban that was in effect from 1994 to 2004 would prohibit manufacture and sales, but it would not affect weapons already possessed. This would leave millions of assault weapons in our communities for decades to come. Instead, we should ban possession of military-style semiautomatic assault weapons, we should buy back such weapons from all who choose to abide by the law, and we should criminally prosecute any who choose to defy it by keeping their weapons. The ban would not apply to law enforcement agencies or shooting clubs. Tucker quoted that part of Swalwell's OpEd and asked him, point blank, if he was calling for gun confiscation. In typical liberal fashion, Swalwell said it wasn't gun confiscation. Carlson: So you've talked about Russia but you've also become known for your position on guns and you're one of the very few Democrats I think who's been honest about that. You say that the U.S. government ought to ban a certain species of rifles. You wrote a piece about this. It's not a secret view you have. You wrote it in USA Today. And you say this: '...we should ban possession of military-style semiautomatic assault weapons. We should buy back such weapons from all who choose to abide by the law, and we should criminally prosecute any who choose to defy it by keeping their weapons.' So we should confiscate this entire class of firearms? What do you think would happen if the federal government tried to do that? Swalwell: Well, Tucker, did you read the OpEd? Carlson: I did. I just quoted from it extensively. Swalwell: I'm not calling for a confiscation. What I'm saying is we should invest in buyback, that we should restrict any weapons that aren't bought back to gun clubs, hunting clubs, shooting ranges. Keep them there, where it's safe. Not on our streets. And if you were caught, just like you were caught, you know, with drugs, or anything else, or they have probable cause to go in your home and you have one of these weapons, yeah. You'd be prosecuted. I've never suggested sending troops out and collecting and confiscating– Carlson: Okay, I'm going to quote an old friend of mine called Eric Swalwell. He's a Congressman from California, on the intel committee— Swalwell: Yeah, he's a good guy. Carlson: Put it back on the screen for me. I'm just going to quote once again. 'And we should buy back those weapons.' And I'm quoting, 'we should criminally prosecute all — criminally prosecute any who refuse — choose to defy it by keeping their weapons.' So, you're going to prosecute people who don't give up their weapons. That's gun confiscation. Swalwell: If they're caught with them, yeah. Carlson: Do you think, because the overwhelming majority of those are law-abiding, they've committed no crime, they have no plan to commit a crime, you would instantly turn them into felons. Do you think that you'd have a Civil War? Are you worried about that? Swalwell: What do you think will happen if we do nothing? More kids will be killed? More churches will lose parishioners? Carlson: I'm not arguing, I'm not arguing on behalf of doing nothing. I'm critiquing your very specific suggestion. And you're a lawmaker, so this is meaningful what you said. Swalwell: And I trust the American people are law-abiding, that their weapons can be bought back or keep them at a gun club. You don't have to give them up. Just keep them at a gun club. And there you have it, folks. One of the loudest, most outspoken gun control advocates admits, on TV, that he does want to come for our guns. Carlson: What if you want to keep them in your home? You haven't done anything wrong, you haven't hurt anyone and now you made them into felons. Swalwell: Yeah. Yeah. No, there's no troop round up here, Tucker. Carlson: You just made them into felons. You just said that in the piece. Look, I'm not making this up. You wrote that, so what do you think if I'm a gun owner and I have one of the weapons that you say should be banned and I don't feel like bringing it to a gun club, I feel like keeping it in my bedroom closet. Swalwell: I don't think you're giving the American people enough credit, that they'd be law-abiding. Carlson: That they'd obey you or they'd be criminally prosecuted. And there you have it folks. They want to come for our guns. The Left does their best to make it sound like we're paranoid about them coming to take our guns. This interview, this OpEd is just another example in gun owners' back pocket that prove that we're not paranoid, but vigilant. The Flaws In The Argument It was obvious in Congressman's Swalwell's interview with Tucker that he realized some of the flaws in his arguments. Swalwell's plan for confiscation has no means of protecting those who legally own the firearms he wants to ban. Assuming the bill passed, law-abiding citizens would suddenly become felons. At least in the past when the Assault Weapons Ban was passed, there was a grandfather clause that protected current owners of said firearms. It would also be beneficial for Congressman Swalwell to visit a "gun club" or a gun range. People don't drop their firearms off in a locker and come to get them whenever they want to shoot them. It's not like renting out a tennis racket at the gym. You take your own firearms to the range or you rent one from the range owners. If guns were limited to just clubs, how would that even work? Would individuals be required to leave their firearms at these clubs? Who would monitor if they were stolen? Who would make sure that they're locked and safe at all times? Would it be the responsibility of the range owner or the firearm owner? And what about utilizing a firearm for self-protection? It's rather hard to protect yourself with a gun if your gun is locked up at a gun club. And, the real topper of it all: if you want to protect yourself or your family and you have one of these guns that banned then you could be criminally prosecuted. Talk about a lack of common sense.
The fierce anti-Kremlin Russian journalist who worked with authorities in Ukraine to fake his own death revealed Thursday he watched reports of his "murder" while at the morgue. Arkady Babchenko, 41, told reporters at a news conference in Kiev he used a makeup artist and pig blood to make it look like he had been shot, and was taken to a morgue in an ambulance. He then changed clothes and watched reports of his "violent" death on television, according to Sky News. Babchenko said that he could have refused when Ukrainian officials approached him with the idea for the ruse about a month ago, but he acted on his own volition. “Everyone who says this undermines trusts in journalists: What would you do in my place, if they came to you and said there is a hit out on you?” he said Thursday. The journalist added that he is now living in a guarded place, and his first priorities were staying alive and protecting his family. The head of Ukraine's security service, Vasyl Grytsak, said the movie-like plot was justified because it meant that he and his team were "able to foil a cynical plot and document how the Russian security service was planning for this crime," Reuters reported. Ukrainian officials said the fake murder was to trace a trail back to Russia, and expose plans for other state-sponsored assassinations. To make the death seem convincing, a picture of Babchenko lying in a pool of blood was released, police made a series of statements about their investigation and even issued a sketch of the killer. “I am absolutely convinced there was no other way. You’re a great guy," Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko told Babchenko in a video released Wednesday, according to Reuters. ANTI-KREMLIN RUSSIAN JOURNALIST'S DEATH IN UKRAINE WAS FAKED, USED TO THWART MURDER PLOT, OFFICIALS SAY But some criticized the incident as a stunt in poor taste that sparked a false outpouring of grief and finger-pointing at Russia. Harlem Desir, the representative on media freedom for the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, had flown to Kiev to meet Babchenko’s colleagues in a show of solidarity. “Relieved that Arkadiy #Babchenko is alive!” Desir tweeted. “I deplore the decision to spread false information on the life of a journalist. It is the duty of the state to provide correct information to the public.” Russian officials reacted to the plot by saying "Thank God" the journalist was alive, but that the stunt does not change the view that Ukraine is a "country dangerous for journalists." "This incident is strange, to say the least," Russian Presidential Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told the TASS News Agency. "I don’t know whether the ends justify the means in this particular case." But Babchenko thanked the Ukrainian security services for saving his life, defending their actions on Wednesday. “The English press says operation has done more harm than good?” he said on Facebook, according to Reuters. “You want good? Give me a UK passport and protection. And then you can lecture me how to save my family.” The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Several Colorado groups are rallying and joining forces in support of GOP proposals to simplify and reform the nation’s tax system, which they see as a drag on both economic growth and a more prosperous middle class. But for others in the state, advancing certain tax reforms seems problematic, especially when Republicans have offered few concrete details about their proposals. Americans for Prosperity-Colorado recently rallied more than 100 supporters in Denver during an event that featured Colorado Rep. Ken Buck, R-Windsor, as keynote speaker. The organization has chapters in 36 states and has garnered financial support from billionaires Charles and David Koch. “We are very interested in seeing loopholes closed that seem to only benefit the well-connected,” Tamra Farah, deputy state director of AFP-Colorado, told Watchdog.org. The most recent major tax reform proposals passed by Congress and signed into law resulted in tax cuts amounting to roughly $2,500 per capita per year, Farah said. Such changes can go a long way in helping the average American to purchase groceries or find better housing, she said. The hours Americans spend preparing taxes also need to be slashed, according to Farah. “Even that is a hindrance to the economy,” she said. The nation has the highest corporate income tax compared to other developed nations, a recent White House press release said. That ultimately hurts the middle class through reduced economic growth and fewer added jobs, according to Farah. “If corporations are paying an excessive amount in taxes, they are not able to spend some of that money … on growing their businesses,” she said. The Colorado Business Roundtable has also joined the tax reform bandwagon. The business advocacy group has launched a tax reform coalition with the state’s Farm Bureau, manufacturers, chambers of commerce and small businesses, according to its president, Jeff Wasden. “You’re starting to see urgency around tax reform,” Wasden told Watchdog.org. “This president has learned lessons from the health care debacle.” Wasden, who expects tax reform to pass this year, noted that President Donald Trump has already visited North Dakota and Missouri to make speeches on tax reform and has cut a deal with congressional Democrats Nancy Pelosi and Charles Schumer on the federal debt ceiling. Trump is setting the stage and building the coalitions needed to make tax reform possible, he said. “Congress and the White House understand this is an important time in our nation’s history,” Wasden said, arguing that it’s been three decades since the last comprehensive review of the U.S. tax system was accomplished. The nitty-gritty of federal tax reform must focus on a fairer, simpler code, a competitive corporate income tax rate, tax relief for average Americans and efforts to encourage corporations to take money that is now parked overseas and invest it in the American economy, he said. A competitive corporate income tax might be 25 percent, according to Wasden, down from the current federal rate of 35 percent. “It’s placing a $262 billion burden on our economy,” he said of the existing tax code. Over six billion hours are spent each year to comply with the current tax regulations, Wasden said, citing the Internal Revenue Service’s Taxpayer Advocate Service. A fairer tax code would go a long ways to benefit the economy in Colorado, where nearly 900 companies operate internationally and generated $149 billion for the economy in 2013, he said. Michael Waggoner, a tax expert and University of Colorado, Boulder, law professor, agrees that a high corporate tax rate can discourage investment in the United States, but corporate profits are at record levels today — at the same time that wages for the average American have been flat-lining for decades, he said. “U.S. corporations are so awash in cash that it is hard to see how they need any more cash to be able to hire and invest,” Waggoner said in an email to Watchdog.org. One solution could be to cut corporate tax rates while eliminating business deductions, which would produce revenue neutrality and a simpler system, he said. But such a change would create winners and losers within the economy, setting up a political fight as losers resist the proposed changes, according to Waggoner. In addition, creating tax incentives to encourage companies to invest may not be as significant as other issues facing businesses, so the incentives may end up being wasted, he said. Another problem involves businesses choosing between spending on equipment or labor to expand their operations. The tax system currently encourages business to spend on capital projects and equipment, while hiring people burdens businesses with liabilities, Waggoner said, including Social Security taxes, unemployment compensation, retirement plans and health insurance. As a result, “there will be fewer jobs, and fewer jobs mean less competition for employees, which means lower wages,” he said.
The digs that Hollywood superstar Marilyn Monroe briefly called home during her short-lived marriage to New York Yankees legend Joe DiMaggio in 1954 has been transformed into a $1,200-a-night hotel room at the Lexington Hotel. It’s now known as the Norma Jeane Suite, after Monroe’s given name. Following their honeymoon, they settled into the Lexington, located at 511 Lexington Ave. at 48th Street. This 600-square-foot suite — which features a living room, a dining area, a 200-square-foot private terrace — is also where Marilyn lived when she shot her iconic skirt-blowing scene in “The Seven Year Itch,” which was filmed just a few blocks away on Lexington Avenue and 52nd Street. Vintage photos and memorabilia act as a shrine to the couple. The suite, formerly called the Centerfield, was available to rent before; the new facelift is courtesy of interior design firm Fringe.
School choice is on the legislative agenda in Oklahoma this year, with education savings accounts getting much of the attention, the Tulsa World reports. A bill by Sen. Kyle Loveless, R-Oklahoma City, would create an ESA program allowing parents to spend their child’s allotment of state education money on tuition, textbooks, tutoring and other educational needs. Loveless is also sponsoring legislation that would expand education tax credits for donations to pay for private-school scholarships. Two Norman senators, one Republican and one Democrat, are taking a different tack on ESAs. Republican Sen. Rob Standridge would create ESAs, but they would go into effect only if teachers get a raise. Democrat John Sparks’ bill would bar use of ESAs to pay for private school. Read more here.
NEW YORK (AP) — The Latest on the cancellation of “Roseanne” (all times local). 11:25 p.m. Roseanne Barr has returned to Twitter and told people not to feel sorry for her while also highlighting supporters’ tweets that attacked ABC and others. Barr’s tweetstorm late Tuesday evening came hours after ABC announced it was canceling the reboot of her show “Roseanne” over a racist tweet that referred to former Barack Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett as a product of the Muslim Brotherhood and “Planet of the Apes.” In the post-firing tweet, Barr apologized to “all the wonderful writers (all liberal) and talented actors who lost jobs on my show due to my stupid tweet.” hey guys, don't defend me, it's sweet of you 2 try, but…losing my show is 0 compared 2 being labelled a racist over one tweet-that I regret even more. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 30, 2018 thanks for supporting me! I gave them the weapon to kill me-I was not equipped to take all the heat. I cracked & made a stupid insensitive joke-it’s my fault. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 30, 2018 She then retweeted supporters’ statements attacking ABC’s hiring of Keith Olbermann, who has harshly criticized President Donald Trump, and a meme that placed Jarrett’s photo side-by-side with a “Planet of the Apes” actor.
Stopping at a family farm just outside of Springfield, the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture said he wants to focus on markets, not programs. USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue said Monday that farmers aren’t as productive when they’re planting to conform to a program, rather than consumers, and gave an example from his native state of Georgia, where farmers were given substantial subsidies for growing peanuts. “The peanut guys did very, very well,” Perdue said, ”and you saw a lot of acres go to peanuts that probably shouldn’t have been in peanuts, they were not peanut farmers. Yet, they were farming for the peanut program.” State Sen. Sam McCann, R-Plainview, was in attendance and said that was a great message. “We want to make sure that we are meeting the supply and demand ratio,” McCann said, “and that people are properly rewarded for that so that they can make a living providing that food to the rest of the world.” Farmers told Perdue they don’t want changes to the subsidy program, which they characterized as a safety net. Perdue said some industries might need to be separated in the insurance program, like keeping cattle separate from milk, but “I’m glad you feel like the insurance program has done well on the cash grain guys and I know that Congress will take that into consideration as well.” U.S. Rep. John Shimkus, R-Collinsville, was also in attendance Monday. He said “Mother Nature, you just can’t control that, so you need a safety net.” “Farmers pay into it,” Shimkus said. “They quibble about how much they pay in, how much is covered … but the agriculture community needs at least a safety net so they can continue to be in the field.” Perdue said the USDA plans to do more with less to help alleviate the nation’s debt. Aside from what would be in the federal farm bill, international trade was one of the chief concerns Perdue heard about. Perdue was praised by the Illinois Farm Bureau for urging the Trump Administration to stay in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). But Perdue said the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) was bad for the U.S. “Honestly, we have more in common in this North American continent than we do within all the TPP nations,” Perdue said. “And it’s worked very well. Agriculture has benefited very well under NAFTA for the most part.” He said some of the fruit producers in southern states might not be happy with the deal, but the grain and livestock industries continue to benefit from the agreement. A cattle farmer in attendance said something has to be done with the recent tariff of 50 percent that Japan imposed on U.S. beef. Purdue said they’ll work to correct that. “I think many agriculturalists were disappointed over the TPP,” Perdue said, “but frankly I do believe that President [Donald] Trump is right. I think that we’re going to be tough negotiators and negotiating bilateral deals and we just have to start very quickly.” Purdue said he believes Japan wants a bilateral agreement, and he’s headed to Asian markets to hash out deals soon.
A Walmart greeter in Ohio has become known in his small town for doing something amazing: paying tribute to Americas' veterans. Every time Freddy Davidson sees a veteran walk through the doors of his Chardon, Ohio Walmart store, he stands and sings the National Anthem. Shoppers and employees alike stop, place their hand over their heart and pay tribute to those men and women as well. Some even sing along. Davidson recounted the first time he sang the National Anthem while at work: “I saw the flag up there and said, 'hey, let me honor your service and let me sing the National Anthem if you’ll stand with me,' and he said yes,” he told FOX 8. Although Davidson struggles to stand due to a bad back break more than 20 years ago, he does so while he sings. “I can’t stand for more than 4-5 minutes, but I stand for the anthem,” Davidson said. “It is painful, but you just don’t notice it.” The first time Assistant Manager George Hill, III, heard Davidson's voice, he was surprised. “It’s not a regular voice,” Hill said. “It really is a powerful voice!” According to Hill, staff and customers have truly embraced Davidson's tribute. "They stop, they turn around, they face the flag, hand over their chest, they sing along with him and even hold hands,” Hill said. “It’s very heartwarming,” Marine Corps Veteran Bill Gibson said. “It gives me the shivers.” Davidson continues to look for hats, tattoos and various clothing that identifies someone as a veteran, all with the hopes of paying them a small tribute. He says he hopes to inspire others to thank a veteran for their service.
Not all superheroes wear capes, apparently. A Texas police officer nicknamed “Blade” after Marvel Comics’ vampire hunter is being lauded as a real champ when he was caught on video during an impromptu boxing match with a teen after responding to a noise complaint. Officer Winston Bowen squared up with the unidentified teenager at Hillcrest Apartments in Mesquite on Memorial Day. The longtime recreational boxer said he couldn’t turn down an invitation to show off his less-lethal guns after getting challenged to a sparring match. “They were having a little barbeque, they were playing some music, and there some kids out there with some gloves,” Bowen told KTVT. “There’s this perception that police officers have guns, we have a badge, but we can’t fight.” The video, which had been viewed more than 1.8 million times on Facebook as of Wednesday, shows a group of teens standing atop a car as Bowen rushes the youngster, but doesn’t land a direct shot. Bowen then dominates the teen with a flurry of jabs and haymakers, drawing jeers from onlookers in the apartment complex’s parking lot. But Bowen’s show of force ends without a major blow as the teen tries his best to save face among his friends. The unscripted main event ends when Bowen’s radio is knocked off his hip, video shows. A throng of witnesses, including several young children, then rush both Bowen and the teen to congratulate them. One witness told KTVT that “everybody” in the neighborhood loves Bowen. “When he pulls up, they’re like, ‘Aw, there’s Officer Blade,’” De’Ovion Tutt told the station, adding that he thought the officer won the brief match. The Mesquite Police Association also praised Bowen, a 14-year department veteran who has been boxing since he was just 13. “We’re so proud of our officers and their level of involve in our city,” the association posted on its website. “Mesquite is so fortunate to have officers like this that fully engage with the communities they serve!” Not everyone was in Bowen’s corner, however. “[On-duty] police officers while in uniform should never display this lack of authority, it is a bad example of department discipline,” one man posted on Facebook. “I admire this officer for having the courage to box this young man but not while in uniform. I trust the police chief feels the same as this puts this officers at great disadvantage if things turn bad.” Lt. Brian Parrish, a police spokesman, said Bowen left the scene after the match and returned with chips and sodas for the teens.
Todd Starnes spoke with musician Matthew West about co-hosting the 6th Annual K-LOVE Fan Awards this year, as well his decision to pay tribute to Rev. Billy Graham at the event. "We're going to be doing a tribute to Rev. Billy Graham, who had a profound impact on my life. He's a big reason why I do what I do today. Because of the way that he lived his life and because of me as a 13-year-old kid watching a Billy Graham Crusade on television, that was a defining moment in my life," West said. Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America! Watch the whole interview here: Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."
It has been fifteen years since Angelina Jolie starred as Lara Croft on the big screen. That best supporting actress Oscar winner has gone on to other projects and now we have another best supporting actress Oscar winner taking on the ironic character in a cinematic reboot of the franchise. Alicia Vikander, who won her Oscar for The Danish Girl, stars as the title character in the new action-packed Tomb Raider. As the film begins, Croft is a bicyclist food delivery person. She rides around London — veering around traffic and pedestrians alike — on her way to her destinations. Croft has inherited a fortune from her missing father Richard (Dominic West) but refuses to accept that he’s dead. When she visits the headquarters of her father’s business empire, she finds a clue and she embarks on a mysterious quest to discover what really happened to her Dad. Unlike the two Tomb Raider films starring Angelina Jolie, this new feature is undeniably an origin story. It showcases Croft’s early interest in puzzles and her ability to survive and thrive in dangerous archaeological expeditions. Surprisingly enough, it’s the film’s earliest action scenes that really stand out. In a realistic bike race in London and a gritty chase scene in Hong Kong, director Roar Uthaug really brings an exciting energy to the film. These scenes are grounded in reality and keep the focus on Croft’s ability to outmaneuver and outsmart every person who gets in her way. In Hong Kong, Croft eventually teams up with a drunken sailor (literally) named Lu Ren (Daniel Wu) and the two travel together to a mysterious island. The island houses the tomb of a mystical enchantress and may have been the last known location of Croft’s father. On the island, Croft is captured alongside Lu Ren by a greedy archaeologist named Mathias Vogel (Walton Goggins). Vogel is hunting for the same tomb that Croft’s father was searching for. Unfortunately for the story though, the plot goes downhill from there as the excitement from Croft’s origin story gives way to a forgettable story about a villainous tyrant hoping use the tomb for his own financial success. In a film that seemed so unique early on, it’s undeniably disappointing to see the story take a more traditional tone after Croft arrives on this island. That’s not to say that there isn’t exciting on the island. One of the movie’s best sequences features Croft stuck on the wing of a downed airplane at the apex of a waterfall. All alone, Croft is forced to find safety as the plane falls apart underneath her feet. Even when you think the action is done, the director adds on another literal cliffhanger and there’s a wonderful excess to the way he stages this elaborate scene. As her bad luck keeps coming, Croft even says “Really” to herself knowing how crazy her situation has turned out to be. Apart from the plane sequence though, there is a general lack of originality on the dangerous island. It’s hard not to compare some of the forgettable archaeological action sequences here with scenes from Steven Spielberg’s classic Raiders of the Lost Ark, which really set the standard for films like this. Still, there’s a lot to like in this new remake. Vikander delivers a solid performance here and really ignites some of the action scenes. The earliest action sequences really work as well and it’s exciting to watch them on the big screen. It’s too bad that the film’s unique footprint is lost as the disappointing plot leads to a familiar-seeming final act. My grade: B- Looking for more reviews? Make sure you subscribe to my YouTube page here.
The Television Academy, famed for its Emmy Awards, is still set to award foul-mouthed late-night host Samantha Bee with a major honor despite being roundly criticized and forced to apologize for calling White House advisor Ivanka Trump a “feckless cunt.” According to the announcement on Emmys.com, Bee is being hailed for the “inspirational” content on her TBS comedy show, Full Frontal With Samantha Bee. “For its dedication to making the audience laugh while making it think, the Television Academy is proud to include Full Frontal with Samantha Bee in the Television Academy Honors,” the award announcement reads. The Academy goes on to praise Bee for helping lift the “wool-covered glasses” from viewers’ eyes to “expose a clearer vision of what is really going on in the world.” “Full Frontal with Samantha Bee’ doesn’t just serve to inform and amuse. What Toronto native Bee and her team are doing is far more important and complex than just delivering the news or just writing a funny joke about a politician,” the group says with its effusive praise of Bee and her show. Bee is apparently still set to receive the award on Thursday night during the Academy’s gala at NeueHouse in Hollywood. Controversy erupted around the Canadian-born TV show host’s Wednesday show after she called Ivanka Trump a “feckless cunt” and hinted that she engage in an incestuous sexual relationship with her father, President Donald Trump, in order to get a liberal political policy put into action. By Thursday, Bee had apologized for her comment with a tweet saying, “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night,” Bee said in a statement. “It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it.” But the fallout continued despite Bee’s “apology” when one of her sponsors dropped its advertising during her show. On Thursday, Autotrader announced that it was cancelling its support of Bee’s broadcasts. Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal. The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company. As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee. — Autotrader (@AutoTrader_com) May 31, 2018 Autotrader was soon followed by another sponsor when State Farm Insurance similarly abandoned Full Frontal. Thus far, the Television Academy has not released a statement about its intended honoree. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.
Many states have a hospital regulatory regime called certificate of need, in which new health care facilities must apply for permission from the government for their existence and “prove” that the existing health care service providers in the geographic region can’t service the existing population. But researchers say that certificate of need regulations lead to artificially constricted supply and a pseudo-monopoly – and that some of the justifications for these regulations fall short. Virginia has some of the strictest certificate of need (CON) laws in the country, justified by incumbent providers claiming that their regulatory advantages allow them to serve customers better, as well as provide charity care to the least vulnerable. But some providers in Virginia have recently instituted stricter regulations on who qualifies for charity care within their service areas, while at the same time raising prices because, they argue, they have to absorb the costs of the charity care. “The primary justification for certificate of need laws is that it allows incumbent hospitals and providers to cover the cost of charity care,” Christopher Koopman, senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, told Watchdog.org. “The idea being that giving them a monopoly or a quasi-monopoly gives them the ability to charge paying customers more, and then use those excess profits to cover the cost of nonpayer care.” In Fairfax County, incumbent provider Inova made changes to its charity care policies without approval from the Health Care Advisory Board – approval that has been required under agreements between the incumbent provider and the board. Inova recently put charity care eligibility restrictions in place based on geography and residency. As the HCAB meeting summary says: “[Inova representative] Mr. Magenheimer acknowledged that the changes Inova proposed to its charity care policy should have been presented to the Board of Supervisors for approval, per the requirements of Inova’s lease agreement with the County. … It was pointed out that the lease agreement does not allow for eligibility determinations based on nationality. Residency or citizenship requirements are questionable under those parameters.” Regardless of the “questionable” distinction, Inova pushed forward with the residency restrictions for charity care. Representatives for the HCAB’s chair told Watchdog.org that the legality of this was unclear. Over the past two years, Inova relaxed its income requirements for charity care — to up to 400 percent of the federal poverty line — then used that expansion as justification to raise prices for paying customers. Then, at the end of 2016, Inova said that its expanded income eligibility was more expensive than previously thought — requiring yet another price hike, and the need to “re-evaluate” the income expansion. So the incumbent health provider, granted a quasi-monopoly by Virginia’s certificate of need laws, was able to raise prices by citing its expansion of charity care benefits, then raise prices again while citing the need to re-evaluate its charity care policies because it was too expensive. “There is no relationship between the presence of a certificate of need law and any increase in charity care,” Koopman told Watchdog.org. “Certificate of need laws are a very clunky, awkward, inefficient attempt to cover the cost of nonpayer care.” As Watchdog.org has reported in the past, certificate of need laws have been found to be anticompetitive and result in worse health outcomes for patients. From Florida to Vermont to other states with CON laws, studies show that the regulations decrease Americans’ access to health services, including hospitals, private practices and emergency rooms. CON laws have shown little ability to decrease costs of services or improve quality, either. And they give political power to incumbent health providers – particularly large chains – that can be used to shut down the potential expansion of competitors.
Home prices in Las Vegas are shooting up higher than the hotel and casino towers on the glittering Strip. Prices for single-family homes were up across the nation by about 7% annually as of March. But Las Vegas led the pack of metros, with the largest annual price hike, 12.6%, as of March, according to real estate data firm CoreLogic's recently released Home Price Index. (That's higher than San Francisco, where single-family homes were 10.8% more expensive year over year.) Among the states, Nevada tied with Washington for the largest price gains, at 12.6%, according to the report. Sorry, Silver State buyers. "California is losing its luster," says Danielle Hale, chief economist at realtor.com® . "These areas [that topped the list] have a lot of California-like amenities—dry, sunny weather and great outdoor activities—but they don’t have exorbitantly high home prices, congestion.” Nevada and Washington were followed by Idaho, at 12.3%, and Utah, at 11.2%. California rounded out the top five at 8.9%. These states are "definitely more affordable than California, but prices are up quite a bit," Hale says. “People coming in to those markets are not going to be priced out. But those who are already in those areas could be.” The dramatic rise of Las Vegas' housing market is rooted in its crash when the housing bubble burst, says local real estate agent and property manager Bryan Kyle of First Serve Realty. The Sin City metro area was among the hardest hit in the nation, so "there was more space to come back up," he says. The market has been gradually picking up steam for the last three years, Kyle says, and now, with a strong job market and a flood of buyers, there is nary an affordable home to be found. More affordably priced homes typically receive several offers and can sell for more than their asking prices: "If we put a home on the market for $350,000, it sells immediately.” All of the cities and states where prices are rising the most are seeing strong job growth, says Frank Nothaft, chief economist of CoreLogic. "Millennials move there for the job opportunities," Nothaft says. And once they arrive, they compete with locals for a very limited supply of properties, driving up prices. "That's adding to the demand to buy homes.” Nationally, each state saw single-family home price increases. But some saw much lower bumps. Wyoming had the lowest price gains, at just 0.4% as of March. Washington, DC, wasn't too far behind at 1.4%; followed by Alaska, at 1.7%; Oklahoma, at 1.9%; and South Dakota, at 2%.
Founders of a company have two options: keep the company private or go public. For the sake of clarity and space, let's assume the CEO is also the founder of the company. If the CEO decides to keep the company private, he is welcome to run the company as he pleases. He can choose to ignore the advice of everyone around him. He doesn't have to apologize when things go badly, and he can take the credit when things go well. In general, running a privately held company allows for all the freedom the CEO desires. The downside, some might say, to running a privately held company is generating capital. The CEO must be mindful when spending money because it is limited. Without investment managers and willing investors funneling money into the company by buying stock or buying debt, the company's resources are a bit more limited. On the other hand, the CEO of a public company, one that allows individual and institutional investors to buy stock and debt in the company has a different role. This CEO must answer to shareholders. Since a publicly traded company allows investors to purchase stock shares, groups like the SEC require a certain amount of accountability. Lately it seems CEO's have forgotten that they have a responsibility to their shareholders. Take for example the recent bad behavior by Tesla CEO Elon Musk during the Tesla earnings report. During a Q&A portion of the call Musk was asked about Tesla's capital requirements and an update on Model 3 production. Rather than answering the honest questions and showing respect to his shareholders, he made the following comments: “Boring, bonehead questions are not cool — next,” and, “These questions are so dry. They’re killing me.” Clearly Elon Musk has forgotten that his entire company is reliant on money from outside his company. Tesla is, after all, not a profitable company. In fact, to date, Tesla has not made a profit. The company relies heavily on subsidized funds from the federal government and investors. It has been reportedthat since going public in 2010, Tesla has been profitable in just two quarters (2013 and 2016) while losing a total of $4.6 billion dollars. Any CEO of a publicly traded company that relies on other people's money to conduct business should treat questions about his company with more respect. Showing such contempt for shareholders as Musk has is no way to run a company. Maybe Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon will do better at respecting shareholders money. Maybe not. Everyone knows Amazon is looking for just the right place to build their massive HQ2 facility. Cities and states have been rolling out the red carpet to Bezos ad Amazon trying to entice the company to “choose me.” With 50,000 jobs planned and a $5 billion capital investment the opportunity to bring Amazon to a city near you is looming large. What criteria would be important for selecting a location to build a corporate office? Things like state and local taxes, a business-friendly environment, zoning laws, access to a large work force, and perhaps transportation routes. These criteria certainly seem important for any company seeking to be profitable and maximize the return on shareholders investment. And yet, it appears Bezos is more interested in finding a home in a place that is LGBT friendly. Sources close to Bezos and members of the scout team say the Amazon founder would consider eliminating locations based on the LGBT environment. This means many states that present the best financial opportunity could potentially be eliminated from contention. As the Washington Post comments: “But many of the states being criticized — among them Georgia, Indiana, North Carolina and Texas — are among the least expensive of the options, providing a low tax environment the company covets. That could force Bezos to choose between getting the best deal for his new headquarters and supporting gay rights.” The states being criticized, Georgia, Indiana, North Carolina, and Texas, are being criticized for their refusal to indulge the sexual revolution and change the way they view gender and sexuality. Because they maintain traditional ideas of gender and sexuality Amazon appears willing to ignore the fact that they are the best locations for HQ2. Then again, wherever Amazon lands is sure to experience a liberalization in state and local politics to some degree. Maybe states that value the historical understanding of gender and sexuality don't want Amazon coming in and influencing their politics and values. CEO's of publicly traded companies have a responsibility to their shareholders to do all they can to be as profitable as they can be. Every decision has this one underlying objective. CEO's must put aside their ego's and their political agenda's to do what is best for their companies and their shareholders. If Musk and Bezos ignore their shareholders, what kind of boss are they? Maybe the negative stories coming out of these companies concerning cash flow, spending, and worker conditions need more attention.
Mitt Romney on Wednesday revealed who he voted for in the 2016 presidential election and it wasn't an official candidate for office. Romney told the Deseret News that he "wrote in the name of a person who I admire deeply, who I think would be an excellent president" — his wife, Ann Romney. The 2012 GOP presidential nominee said he realized his vote "wasn't going to go anywhere, but nonetheless felt that I was putting in a very solid name." Romney, a vocal critic of President Trump currently running for a U.S. Senate seat in Utah, hadn't publicly said who he voted for, but in March 2016 encouraged Americans to vote for Sen. Ted Cruz. Earlier that month, Romney called then-candidate Trump a "phony" and a "fraud" who was playing Americans for "suckers."
Homeland has always aimed for political relevancy. In its earliest seasons, the main character was haunted by the events of September 11th and our nation’s inability to prevent that terrorist attack. Now, in season 7, the show continues to offer timely and important stories about the consequences of fake news and how political divisions can lead to catastrophic consequences. As season 6 ended, president-elect Elizabeth Keane (a superbly-cast Elizabeth Marvel) was nearly killed after military officials attempted a coup against the newly-elected and naive leader. Her frustrations with the intelligence community led to outright disdain and at the end of the season, her new government wrongly imprisoned hundreds of intelligence officers. At the beginning of season 7, President Keane has been in office for two months and those officials are still being held by the government they once served. Most of the captive officials are innocent but Keane’s zealous sense of righteousness has prevented her from seeing beyond her own biases. That has only made the reality on the ground worse as people have decided to rise up against her tyrannical methods. Despite its age, Homeland still has the ability to tackle politically-tricky subjects while maintaining its dramatic momentum. In this season’s first five episodes, the program has featured several distinct storylines. Carrie (Claire Danes), the show’s main character and a former CIA official, has spent much of that time pursuing a way to undercut the president. She’s found a link between the strange death of a prisoner charged with conspiring to attack the president-elect and the presidential administration. This story has reminded viewers of Carrie’s bipolar disorder which, when left untreated, can cause dire consequences. Over the course of the series, this storyline has become a bit repetitive (since the beginning, many have questioned Carrie’s ability to evaluate situations clearly when she’s not giving the proper meds) so it’s a little frustrating to see the program rehash this concept. Fortunately, the plot thread has something more interesting and reminded viewers that this show can still offer some exciting twists and surprises. The storyline featuring intelligence expert Saul Berenson (Mandy Patinkin, who continues to do incredible and subtle work here) has a greater power to it and keeps the program’s momentum going. Berenson, who was being held as a suspect in the Keane assassination attempt (despite little evidence he was involved) is sprung from jail by a repentant President Keane. Keane recruits Berenson as her new national security advisor. Keane has her eyes on different targets now and asks Berenson to capture the conspiracy-spewing government-hating host of an online show. As that plot unfolds, the possible existence of fake news comes to the forefront after the airing of an erroneous report about a hostage situation. While others see a simple mistake, Berenson questions whether the Russians could’ve planted bad information to sow discord in our country. As Berenson says, they “exploit existing divisions wherever they find them.” As of yet, we don’t know if Berenson is right here — inevitably, answers will be revealed as the season continues — but the show is so willing to take on heavy subjects that its episodes carry a dramatic urgency. This is a show that understands the hectic times we live in and instead of veering away from tricky subjects, it embraces them. Few of the characters are either good or bad. They are motivated by their own backgrounds and there’s a gray area that this show dwells in so meticulously. Many shows in their seventh season have settled into a routine but Homeland is a different animal. In its first season (still its best), the show focused on a returning Marine who may or may not have been turned by his terrorist captors. Six seasons later, the program has adapted to a new reality and it continues to change, adapt and surprise as it follows the characters wherever they go and it mirrors real-life news events wherever they may lead us. Grade: B+ Looking for more reviews? Check out my video review of A Wrinkle in Time here.
Miguel Andujar collided with Houston’s Yuli Gurriel trying to make a play at third in the seventh, but remained in the game after being looked at by the training staff. Andujar said he got hit in the left side of his head, but was OK and Aaron Boone added: “I don’t think it’s anything big.” Aaron Hicks was hitless in 15 at-bats before a sixth-inning double in the Yankees’ 5-3 win over the Astros Wednesday night at the Stadium, but Boone said he still values what he brings to the team. “When he’s not getting hits, he’s getting on base 35 percent of the time,’’ Boone said. “And he’s a real center fielder that can really legitimately play center field. He has power and in a lot of ways is still a young player who’s still developing and is highly productive.” That’s Boone’s polite way of saying you shouldn’t expect to see Clint Frazier back in The Bronx anytime soon, regardless of how well he hits with Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre. “[Frazier] continues to grow and establish himself as a big part of our future,’’ Boone said. “Aaron is a really good player for us and plays a premium defensive position. You can’t just fire anyone out in center field.’’ Boone said Luis Severino would start one of the games of the doubleheader on Monday in Detroit and the team was discussing who would pitch the other game. Boone said he preferred to have a starter as opposed to using the game as a bullpen day. Adam Warren threw three scoreless innings for Double-A Trenton. … Austin Romine extended his career-high hitting streak to nine games, and is 12-for-26 in that stretch.
A couple of years ago at a motel in Columbus, Ohio, a young woman shared a bag of heroin with her father. Both of them nodded off. Because she woke up and he did not, she was sentenced to three years in prison for involuntary manslaughter. That arbitrary outcome encapsulates the senseless cruelty of a strategy that in recent years has gained favor among prosecutors across the country: treating opioid-related deaths as homicides, regardless of intent. The resulting prosecutions not only are manifestly unjust but could make fatal overdoses more likely by discouraging bystanders from seeking help. A recent New York Times investigation identified more than 1,000 arrests or prosecutions related to accidental opioid deaths in 15 states from 2015 through 2017, a period when the annual number of cases almost doubled. According to a 2017 report from the Drug Policy Alliance, annual press mentions of such prosecutions more than tripled between 2011 and 2016, from 363 to 1,178. DPA found examples in all but four states. Twenty states have laws that specifically address drug-induced homicide, DPA senior staff attorney Lindsay LaSalle notes in the report, while others “charge the offense of drug delivery resulting in death under various felony-murder, depraved heart or involuntary or voluntary manslaughter laws.” Possible prison sentences range from two years to life. Under federal law, drug distribution resulting in death or serious injury is punishable by 20 years to life. Although legislators and prosecutors may portray such cases as a way to punish callous, death-dealing drug traffickers, the defendant is usually someone close to the decedent. As a practical matter, that makes sense, because the higher up you go in the distribution chain, the harder it is to prove a connection between the defendant and a particular consumer. The upshot is that a defendant’s role in “distributing” a drug may be limited to buying it for someone else, arranging a purchase or sharing a stash. When money changes hands, the dealers are often selling just enough to finance their own habits. Looking at cases in Pennsylvania during the first half of 2017, the Times found that three-quarters of the defendants were themselves drug users. Last year WITI, the Fox station in Milwaukee, reviewed the 100 most recent prosecutions for drug-induced homicide in Wisconsin and found that “just 11 defendants were higher-level drug dealers,” while the rest were friends, relatives or “low-level street dealers.” A woman in Minnesota got four years for sharing a fentanyl patch with her fiancé. A New York woman got six years for mailing a friend some heroin at his request while he was on a business trip in Chicago. A Louisiana man got a life sentence for using heroin with his girlfriend. “Many law-enforcement officers hope that the cases act as a deterrent,” the Times notes. But it may not be the kind of deterrent they have in mind. Because prompt medical attention is crucial in saving people from potentially fatal opioid overdoses, 40 states and the District Columbia have enacted “911 Good Samaritan” laws that shield bystanders from some drug-related charges when they call for help. But those laws do not apply to homicide charges. A 2002 analysis of drug-induced homicide prosecutions in New Jersey found that most of the defendants were friends of the decedents and “in some cases the people who sought emergency care for them.” A Minnesota woman is serving a six-year prison sentence because she let her husband take methadone prescribed for her, even though she called 911 and tried to save his life. A woman who was charged with drug-induced homicide in Illinois because she helped her husband buy heroin was the person who called 911 when he overdosed. “The most common reason people cite for not calling 911 in the event of an overdose is fear of police involvement,” DPA’s LaSalle notes. “The only behavior that is deterred by drug-induced homicide prosecutions is the seeking of life-saving medical assistance.”
Branding the flesh of female “sex slaves” was her own idea, says former “Smallville” actress Allison Mack — now an accused leader of the upstate cult Nxivm. Speaking with a reporter for The New York Times Magazine, Mack scoffed at the idea of merely tattooing the women. Tattoos are for wimps, Mack implied in the interview, which she gave six months before her arrest on federal human-trafficking charges. “I was like: ‘Y’all, a tattoo?’” Mack told reporter Vanessa Grigoriadis, speaking from her apartment in Prospect Park, Brooklyn, for a Nxivm profile running Sunday. “People get drunk and tattooed on their ankle ‘BFF,’ or a tramp stamp,” said Mack, who played Clark Kent’s buddy on the long-running WB series. “I have two tattoos, and they mean nothing.” Apparently, searing their flesh with a cauterizing pen instead, leaving them permanently scarred with the initials of both Mack and accused cult boss Keith Raniere, would be far more meaningful — even if the branded women themselves didn’t know the meaning. “Not all the women were told that these initials were present in the symbol,” Grigoriadis writes. Astoundingly, she adds, some of the women saw being branded as a way to conquer their fears. “Some of them kidded around through it,” the article says. “Even if they cried when they were getting the brand; even if they wore surgical masks to help them with breathing in the smell of burning flesh . . . they were still able to transcend the fear and cry out to one another: “Badass warrior bitches! Let’s get strong together.” Grigoriadis also spoke to Raniere, who easily admitted he was “polyamorous” but insisted that he never brainwashed anyone. Both Raniere and Mack are due to stand trial in October on conspiracy and trafficking charges carrying a minimum prison term of 15 years.
When it comes to his sudden misfire against the media, Elon Musk is losing some of his rocket fuel. Musk was showered with waves of positive press as he built two great companies. He is an amazing entrepreneur. It’s impossible not to admire the guy. But now that some difficulties at Tesla and Space X are drawing routine journalistic scrutiny, he is railing against the media—and it’s sounding a bit like a temper tantrum. Musk somehow got the idea that criticism from the business press automatically means that he’s being treated unfairly. Like any CEO, he has every right to push back. But I’m not sure, based on his recent tweetstorm, that he has a firm grasp on how the media work. Or maybe Musk is just mad, as when he told a Wall Street analyst on a recent call not to ask a “bonehead” question. At Tesla, Musk has run into some production problems with versions of the Model 3, and the Center for Investigative Reporting has questioned workplace safety at his factories. Plus, a semi-autonomous Tesla sedan slammed into the back of a fire truck earlier this month. (I do think Musk had a point when he called it “super messed up” that an accident that caused the driver to suffer a broken ankle “is front page news and the ~40,000 people who died in US auto accidents alone in past year get almost no coverage.”) Journalists have also questioned the reliability of Space X rockets after a pair of critical government reports and a Falcon 9 that failed to reach orbit in January. But the recent fusillade was ignited by his car company, prompting Musk to tweet: “The holier-than-thou hypocrisy of big media companies who lay claim to the truth, but publish only enough to sugarcoat the lie, is why the public no longer respects them.” Many folks would agree with the hypocrisy charge, but the second part sounds like an accusation of fake news. And indeed, there was this followup: “Anytime anyone criticizes the media, the media shrieks ‘You’re just like Trump!’ Why do you think he got elected in the first place? Because no one believes you any more. You lost your credibility a long time ago.” Again, I can hear at least part of America cheering. But then Musk begins to veer off the road. Another tweet begins with a sharp but pointed critique—“Problem is journos are under constant pressure to get max clicks”—before hitting a ditch: “& earn advertising dollars or get fired.” Reporters don’t think that way. They cover problems in the auto industry without worrying about losing their jobs (or actually losing their jobs). Tesla doesn’t advertise, so Musk feels at a disadvantage against “gas/diesel car companies.” But one major reason that Tesla’s luxury cars (Model S starts at $74,500) have been such a phenomenon is the endless headlines that portrayed them as sexy and the founder as a cool visionary. The wheels really started to come off when Musk proclaimed that he would get into the media criticism business himself: “Going to create a site where the public can rate the core truth of any article & track the credibility score over time of each journalist, editor & publication. Thinking of calling it Pravda …” (Weird to use the name of the onetime Soviet propaganda sheet, even if tongue-in-cheek.) First, the idea that the public can rate “the core truth” of any article seems bizarrely out of touch. Why would such a site not be buried under a mountain of partisan barbs from all sides? (He says he’d weed out propaganda bots, but how about propaganda humans?) Second, how does the public know the “core truth” about any article? And if more than half found a particular story untruthful, would that mean anything beyond your typical, self-selected online poll? Musk seems unaware that there are fact-checking sites and social media efforts, however flawed, that attempt to hold journalists accountable. He seems to think he’s inventing the wheel here. Still, he insists: “Even if some of the public doesn’t care about the credibility score, the journalists, editors & publications will. It is how they define themselves.” In his Twitter poll, 88 percent said his proposed site “would be good,” while 12 percent say “no, the media are awesome.” More than 680,000 votes were cast, but of course this reflects Musk’s nearly 22 million Twitter followers, most of whom are presumably fans. Musk’s stature is such that he can rip the media and have an important impact on the news business, but not with a gimmicky site. He just needs to tap the brakes a bit in the process.
Roseanne Barr has always been a controversial figure, from her class to her weight to her political ideas. Her look has also changed as fast as the whirlwind controversies that surround her. Getty Images
More Podcasts… · The FOX News Rundown Long form and in depth story telling of the major news item of the day. · The Whip Around In hurry? Start the day with this quick news podcast! · Hourly Newscast The news updated every hour! · The Five It’s the full primetime show. FREE! · Perino & Stirewalt Dana Perino & Chris Stirewalt dishing on politics news every week. · The One w/ Greg Gutfeld You know him. You love him. Greg Gutfeld. · Livin’ the Bream Inspirational stories, personal anecdotes and an insider’s perspective from Shannon Bream. · HemmerTime One on one with engaging personalities hosted by Bill Hemmer.
1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals.
Texans looking for property tax relief won’t find much in Senate Bill 2 because lawmakers half-stepped the process. Homeowners in just 10 of 34 cities and counties would realize any savings under the bill passed by the Senate Tuesday. The annual reduction on an average homesteaded property was calculated to range from $12.77 in San Antonio to $81.25 in Bryan, according to an analysis obtained by Watchdog.org. Homeowners in several metro areas — including Tarrant [Fort Worth] and Nueces [Corpus Christi] — would see no change. State Sen. Paul Bettencourt, R-Houston, hailed SB 2’s passage, saying his measure would “help slow the growth of future property tax bill increases.” But Galveston County Tax Assessor-Collector Cheryl Johnson said promises of reform and relief are exaggerated. “There is no tax relief in this bill. SB2 is a waste of time for individual homeowners,” declared Johnson, who compiled the study. “Twenty-one million homeowners will see no relief from SB 2,” she told Watchdog in an interview. If Johnson’s assessment is correct, SB 2 could haunt state Republicans, including Gov. Greg Abbott and Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, for again failing to deliver substantive property-tax relief. Amid much fanfare, the 2015 Legislature raised the homestead exemption with promises of lower levies, but property tax bills continue to soar. Johnson said the Republican-dominated Legislature’s piecemeal approach is doomed to fail. “SB 2 is only one piece of the puzzle, and the GOP will lose elections because of this,” predicted Johnson, a Republican. Until appraisals are capped, Johnson said tax bills will keep climbing. So she recommends a complete overhaul. Lawmakers should “freeze everything and rewrite the [tax] code,” said Johnson, who favors a “price-paid” appraisal system to effectively freeze residential taxes while transferring commercial/industrial appraisal responsibilities to the state comptroller. “That would spread the wealth across the state and equalize education funding. Then we’re done,” she said. “If we don’t get a cap bill, do [legislators] want to come back in two years and do it all over again? It’s time to man up,” Johnson said. Lawmakers appear more interested in nibbling around the margins, however. Just before the clock struck midnight, the Senate Finance Committee lifted the lid on tax revenue increases from 4 percent to 5 percent to conform to a softer bill in the House — further eroding whatever small savings taxpayers might receive. Kenric Ward writes for the Texas Bureau of Watchdog.org. Contact him at kward@watchdog.org and follow him on Twitter @Kenricward
The Virginian-Pilot: 2 Virginia Beach council members propose budget with no tax increases Residents looking for relief from flooding without paying more in taxes have at least two champions on the City Council. Council members John Moss and Jessica Abbott have come up with an alternative to City Manager Dave Hansen’s proposed budget, which calls for a real estate tax increase of 1.25 cents per $100 of assessed value to help pay for full-day kindergarten and a stormwater fee increase of 2.5 cents per day for five years to make a dent in $450 million in needed drainage infrastructure repairs and upgrades. Richmond Times-Dispatch: Virginia Supreme Court takes first look at pipeline survey law The issue is new to the Virginia Supreme Court, but not to landowners whose property already has been surveyed without their permission for two proposed interstate natural gas pipelines. The court heard arguments on Wednesday in two cases testing the legality of a state law that allows gas companies onto private property without landowner consent to survey routes for pipelines, including an appeal by an 83-year-old widow whose Augusta County land already has been surveyed for the proposed Atlantic Coast Pipeline. Northern Virginia Daily: Split board Oks tax increase Warren County real estate owners can expect an increase in their next tax bills. The Board of Supervisors voted 3-2 to adopt the fiscal 2018 budget that assumes an increase in the real estate tax rate from 62 cents to 65 cents per $100 of assessed value. The majority of the additional revenue from the tax increase will cover the cost to open and operate the new middle school for the first year. The Virginian-Pilot: Norfolk treasurer heads to prison to begin serving 6-year sentence for corruption
America has a major dependency problem. In recent decades, there’s been a significant increase in the number of working-age adults relying on handouts. This is bad news for poor people and bad news for taxpayers. But it’s also bad news for the nation since it reflects an erosion of societal capital. For all intents and purposes, people are being paid not to be productive. Guided by the spirit of Calvin Coolidge, we need to reform the welfare state. Professor Dorfman of the University of Georgia, in a column for Forbes, pinpoints the core problem. The first failure of government welfare programs is to favor help with current consumption while placing almost no emphasis on job training or anything else that might allow today’s poor people to become self-sufficient in the future. …It is the classic story of giving a man a fish or teaching him how to fish. Government welfare programs hand out lots of fish, but never seem to teach people how to fish for themselves. The problem is not a lack of job training programs, but rather the fact that the job training programs fail to help people. In a study for ProPublica, Amy Goldstein documents that people who lost their jobs and participated in a federal job training program were less likely to be employed afterward than those who lost their jobs and did not receive any job training. That is, the job training made people worse off instead of better. …Right now, the government cannot teach anyone how to find a fish, let alone catch one. And Peter Cove opines on the issue for the Wall Street Journal. …the labor-force participation rate for men 25 to 54 is lower now than it was at the end of the Great Depression. The welfare state is largely to blame. More than a fifth of American men of prime working age are on Medicaid. According to the Census Bureau, nearly three-fifths of nonworking men receive federal disability benefits. The good news is that the 1996 welfare reform taught us how to reduce government dependency and get idle Americans back to work. …Within 10 years of the 1996 reform, the number of Americans in the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program fell 60%. Interestingly, European nations seem to be more interested in fixing the problem, perhaps because they’ve reached the point where reform is a fiscal necessity. Let’s look at what happened when the Dutch tightened benefit rules. A fascinating new study from economists in California and the Netherlands sheds light on how welfare dependency is passed from one generation to the next – and how to save children from lives of idleness. A snowball effect across generations could arise if welfare dependency is transmitted from parents to their children, with potentially serious consequences for the future economic situation of children. …there is little evidence on whether this relationship is causal. Testing for the existence of a behavioural response, where children become benefit recipients because their parents were, is difficult… Our work overcomes these identification challenges by exploiting a 1993 reform in the Dutch Disability Insurance (DI) programme… The 1993 reform tightened DI eligibility for existing and future claimants, but exempted older cohorts currently on DI (age 45+) from the new rules. This reform generates quasi-experimental variation in DI use… Intuitively, the idea is to compare the children of parents who are just over 45 years of age to children whose parents are just under 45. . Here’s the methodology of their research. The first step is to understand the impact of the 1993 reform on parents. Figure 1 shows that parents who were just under the age 45 cut-off, and therefore subject to the harsher DI rules, are 5.5 percentage points more likely to exit DI by the year 1999 compared to parents just over the age 45 cut-off. These treated parents saw a 1,300 euro drop in payments on average. …the reform changed other outcomes as well. There is a strong rebound in labour earnings. This chart from their research captures the discontinuity. Here are the main results. The second step is to see how children’s DI use changed based on whether the reform affected their parents. We measure a child’s cumulative use of DI as of 2014, by which time they are 37 years old on average. Figure 2 reveals a noticeable jump in child DI participation at the parental age cut-off of 45. There is an economically significant 1.1 percentage point drop for children if their parent was exposed to the reform, which translates into an 11% effect relative to the mean child participation rate of 10%. …welfare cultures, defined as a causal intergenerational link, exist. This second chart illustrates the positive impact. But here’s the most important part of the research. Reducing access to redistribution to parents is a good way of boosting income and education for children. …we examine whether a child’s taxable earnings and participation in other social support programmes change. Cumulative earnings up to 2014 rise by approximately €7,200 euros, or a little less than 2%, for children of parents subject to the less generous DI rules. In contrast, we find no detectable change in cumulative unemployment insurance receipt, general assistance (i.e. traditional cash welfare), or other miscellaneous safety net programs. Looking at a child’s educational attainment, there is intriguing evidence for anticipatory investments. When a parent is subject to the reform which tightened DI benefits, their child invests in 0.12 extra years of education relative to an overall mean of 11.5 years. …these findings provide suggestive evidence that children of treated parents plan for a future with less reliance on DI in part by investing in their labour market skills. And it’s also worth noting that taxpayers benefit when welfare eligibility is restricted. These strong intergenerational links between parents and children have sizable fiscal consequences for the government’s long term budget. Cumulative DI payments to children of the targeted parents are 16% lower. This is a substantial additional saving for the government’s budget, especially since there is no evidence that children substitute these reductions in DI income for additional income from other social assistance programmes. Furthermore, there is a fiscal gain resulting from the increased taxes these children pay due to their increased labour market earnings. Overall, we calculate that through the year 2013, children account for 21% of the net fiscal savings of the 1993 Dutch reform in present discounted value terms. This share is projected to increase to 40% over time. Ryan Streeter of American Enterprise Institute explains that other European nations also are reforming. Welfare reformers might draw some lessons from unlikely places, such as Scandinavia. While progressives like to uphold Nordic democratic socialism as a model for America, the Scandinavian welfare systems are arguably more pro-work than ours… For instance, to deal with declining labor force participation, Denmark eliminated permanent disability benefits for people under 40 and refashioned its system to make employment central. Sweden reformed its welfare system to focus on rapid transitions from unemployment to work. Their program lowers jobless assistance the longer one is on welfare. The Nordic model is more focused on eliminating reasons not to work such as caregiving or lack of proper training than providing income replacement. Similarly, the British government combined six welfare programs with varying requirements into a single “universal credit.” The benefit is based on a sliding scale and decreases as a recipient’s earnings increase, replacing several differing formulas for phasing out of welfare programs with one. An evaluation of the new program, which encourages work, found that 86 percent of claimants were trying to increase their work hours and 77 percent were trying to earn more, compared to 38 percent and 55 percent, respectively, under the previous system. …Scandinavia and Britain learned a while ago that successful welfare reform is not just about how much money a country spends on people who earn too little. It’s really about how to help them find and keep a good job. It’s time for America to catch up. Amen. For what it’s worth, I think we’ll be most likely to get good results if we get Washington out of the redistribution business. In effect, block grant all means-tested programs to the states and then phase out the federal funding. That would give states the ability to experiment and they could learn from each other about the best way of helping the truly needy while minimizing incentives for idleness.
Memorial Day is a time to remember the brave military men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our nation, while also honoring those who serve today. From coast to coast, check out the three largest Memorial Day celebrations that patriotically commemorate the holiday. The National Memorial Day Parade Held annually along Constitution Avenue in Washington, D.C., the National Memorial Day Parade is "our nation’s largest Memorial Day event" with over 250,000 spectators gathering in the National Mall area to show support for our armed forces while cheering on parade floats, youth groups, marching bands and more. Organized by the American Veterans Center & World War II Veterans Committee, the May 28 event is in its 14th year running. MEMORIAL DAY: 5 THINGS YOU DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT THE HOLIDAY Little Neck-Douglaston Memorial Day Parade Billed as one of the biggest Memorial Day festivities in the nation, nearly 10,000 people march in the New York parade organized by a group of local volunteers. The Little Neck-Douglaston event has been held every Memorial Day since 1927, rain or shine. Chicago’s Memorial Day Parade Held this year ahead of the holiday on May 26, Chicago’s Memorial Day Parade is one of the largest of its kind. The event began with a morning Wreath Laying Ceremony at the Eternal Flame on Daley Plaza, with veteran’s groups, bands and more then proudly marching south on State Street from Lake Street to Van Buren Street. Various Memorial Day parades and celebrations have been held in Chicago since 1870, by the city's account. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
President Trump announced plans to give conservative filmmaker Dinesh D'Souza, who was convicted of making an illegal campaign contribution in 2014, a "full pardon" on Wednesday. D'Souza, 57, pleaded guilty to campaign finance fraud after donating $20,000 to New York politician Wendy Long, a Republican, during her Senate race in 2012. He was indicted two years later, in January 2014, for using a “straw donor,” a person who makes illegal contributions to a campaign in the names of others, to make the donation. As a result, D'Souza was sentenced to five years probation, eight months in a "community confinement center," weekly counseling sessions and given a $30,000 fine. TRUMP TO GIVE 'FULL PARDON' TO DINESH D'SOUZA "He was treated very unfairly by our government!" Trump said in a tweet Wednesday, which was then retweeted by D'Souza. At the time, D'Souza's attorney, Benjamin Brafman, told The Washington Post in a statement that D'Souza did not have any "criminal intent" — it was simply an "act of misguided friendship." “He and the candidate have been friends since their college days," Brafman explained to the newspaper. "It is important to note that the indictment does not allege a corrupt relationship between Mr. D’Souza and the candidate.” HOW DO PRESIDENTIAL PARDONS WORK? D'Souza will become the fifth person Trump has pardoned since taking office, following behind former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, former Navy sailor Kristian Saucier, former Vice President Dick Cheney's aide Scooter Libby and the late Jack Johnson, boxing's first black heavyweight champion. Here's what you need to know about the charges D'Souza faced. What was he charged with? D’Souza was charged with one count of illegally donating to a Senate campaign and one count of causing false statements to be made to authorities in connection with the contributions. “D’Souza attempted to illegally contribute over $10,000 to a Senate campaign, wilfully undermining the integrity of the campaign finance process. Like many others before him, of all political stripes, he has had to answer for this crime – here with a felony conviction," then-Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement in September 2014. DINESH D'SOUZA GOT A FELONY CONVICTION FOR ILLEGAL CAMPAIGN DONATIONS; WILL ROSIE O'DONNELL GET THE SAME TREATMENT? In 2012, the Federal Election Campaign Act limited campaign contributions to $5,000 from "any individual to any one candidate," the indictment stated. D’Souza gave Long $5,000 from himself and another $5,000 from his wife in March 2012. Months later, he asked others — an assistant and romantic interest — to donate to Long's campaign on behalf of themselves and their spouses, promising to later reimburst them $20,000 in cash, the U.S. Attorney's Office said in a statement online. "When confronted by Ms. Long, D’Souza initially misled the candidate before admitting what he had done," the statement adds. D'Souza's actions caused the campaign committee to submit "materially false, fictitious, and fraudulent statements" to the Federal Election Commission regarding the sources of the campaign contributions. In total, Long's campaign raised less than $1 million for her losing fight against now Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., The Washington Post reported. Fox News' Brooke Singman and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) on Wednesday announced a bi-partisan school safety plan for schools in the Lone Star State. The plan was crafted after Abbott held a three-day roundtable with victims, parents, educators, lawmakers, law enforcement and policy experts, to discuss how to strengthen safety in schools. “This plan is a starting point, not an ending place,” Abbott said in a statement. “It provides strategies that can be used before the next school year begins to keep our students safe when they return to school. This plan will make our schools safer and our communities safer.” Gov. Abbott's School and Firearm Safety Plan includes: • Criminal Justice Division in the Office of the Governor will provide $70 million in grants and the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 will provide an additional $40 million in grants to help implement the plan. Abbott will also work with the Texas legislature to find an additional $30 million for this initiative. • Immediately increasing law enforcement presence at schools by hiring retired law enforcement officers and military veterans for school security. • Training more school marshals, increasing funding for school marshals and increasing the number of school marshals that can be appointed at each school. • Removing the firearm storage requirement for school marshals who are in direct contact with students, revamping marshal training requirements to focus more time on firearms training and requiring marshals to undergo an annual refresher course. • Providing active shooter and emergency response training by better preparing campus security to respond to active shooter. The Texas School Safety Center will partner with the I Love You Guys Foundation to provide training in the Standard Response Protocol and the Standard Reunification Method for school personnel. • The Texas Education Agency (TEA) will work with school districts to prioritize $62.1 million in new federal funding toward immediate school safety improvements, including school hardening, increased law enforcement patrols, implementation of mental health programs, and other recommendations discussed in this plan. • The School Safety and Security Committee should be required to discuss the expansion of patrol zones to include the school district with local law enforcement; hold meetings at least three times a year; periodically provide updates to the school board; and schools should be required to notify parents if a significant threat to students’ safety occurs. • Providing mental health evaluations to identify students at risk of harming others and expand access to Texas Tech Health Sciences Center’s Telemedicine Wellness Intervention Triage & Referral (TWITR) Project. • Increasing Mental Health First Aid training during summer 2018. • The Texas School Safety Center will partner with SIGMA Threat Management to deliver training on Behavioral Threat Assessment to school personnel. • Expanding Crime Stoppers operations and launch an awareness campaign for school employees and students to encourage the reporting of tips related to school crime. • Increasing the use and awareness of DPS’ “iWatch Texas” reporting system to enable and encourage parents, students, and teachers to easily report potential harm or criminal activity directed at school students, school employees, and schools. • Increasing the number of fusion centers in Texas to improve law enforcement’s ability to identify, process, and resolve potential threats that appear on social media. • Including charter schools in the same school safety requirements and options as Independent School Districts. • Creating a statewide case management system to provide magistrates immediate access to critical information and to speed the timely reporting of court records for federal background checks. • Encouraging the Texas Senate and House leaders to issue an interim charge to consider the merits of adopting a red flag law allowing law enforcement, a family member, school employee, or a district attorney to file a petition seeking the removal of firearms from a potentially dangerous person only after legal due process is provided. • Mandating a 48-hour reporting period to close gaps in federally mandated background checks. • Strengthening The Safe Firearm Storage Law and promoting the use of gun locks. • Making it mandatory for gun owners to report when their firearms are lost or stolen within 10 days. Santa Fe will immediately receive $1 million to Santa Fe ISD through the School Emergency Response to Violence (SERV) program: • Deploying crisis response counselors to beet immediate mental health needs. • Assisting Texas Health and Human Services Commission (HHSC) efforts to provide a long-term behavioral health response. • Ensuring First Responders have mental health resources. • Providing additional counselors to ISDs in the Santa Fe area. • Providing highly-trained counselors to Santa Fe ISD for the upcoming school year. • Coordinating long-term community mental health efforts. The Dallas Independent School District live streamed the press conference, where the plan was unveiled:
Townhall's Rating: B+ Ready Player One is built for the nostalgia lover in all of us. Actually, it’s built for those who love nostalgic references to the '80s and the '90s. If you qualify, this movie is so packed with references to some of the biggest cultural hits of the past few decades that even astute viewers will have a hard time keeping up. Steven Spielberg, the visionary who previously helmed action-packed films like Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981), Jurassic Park (1993) and War of the Worlds (2005), returns to that genre here. The two-time Oscar winner reminds us once again of his visual prowess as he crafts this unique feature. Adapted from the Ernest Cline novel, the film takes place in 2045. After a series of horrific events (including a corn syrup drought and bandwidth riots), many people spend much of their time in the Oasis, a virtual reality world created by the late Halliday (Mark Rylance).This world allows users the opportunity to fulfill their wildest dreams. As frequent Oasis user Wade Watts (Tye Sheridan) states, “The limits of reality are your own imagination. You can do anything. Go anywhere.” What Wade truly wants is a better life and he knows he can find that if he completes the challenge Halliday created before he died. Halliday left three hidden keys in the game. Whoever finds those keys first and earns the most points will inherit the Oasis and the money that comes with it. Wade navigates the Oasis using an avatar named Parzival. In the game, he enlists the support of his best friend Aech (Lena Waithe), the mysterious Art3mis (Olivia Cooke) and two other characters to solve the puzzle that Halliday left behind. Although much of the film takes place in the Oasis, the main characters also appear outside of the virtual world. Unfortunately though, these characters never come across as fully fleshed-out individuals. In fact, their backgrounds are bland and uninspired. Sheridan, for one, is a great young actor (his performances in Joe and The Stanford Prison Experiment truly stood out) but Wade never has the chance to really develop here. He’s introduced simply as a put-upon teenager who lives with his irresponsible aunt and her latest obnoxious boyfriend. It’s truly in the Oasis where the character really comes to life but even there, Wade acts like a typical teenager who falls in love easily (way too easily) and simply wants to win the grand prize. Fortunately though, the feature’s stunning visuals are a sight to behold and it’s wonderfully exhilarating to see Spielberg pay tribute to so many other iconic films. From Back to the Future to Masters of the Universe, the Oasis — like the many video games that are mentioned in it — is packed with Easter eggs that viewers will be discovering in the years to come. This is a celebration of '80s and '90s culture and the movie will reward frequent viewers and perceptive filmgoers. The world of the Oasis is truly a beautiful world to behold and Spielberg navigates the action with a keen eye, keeping viewers enthralled in epic car chases, elaborate dance scenes and a climactic large-scale battle. Spielberg knows how to direct action scenes and these sequences work by keeping an intense focus on the participants involved in the action and crafting a grandiose world around them. There’s truly a lot to love and appreciate in this massively-involved production. There are moments in it that are truly spectacular and unbelievably constructed. That being said, the lack of character depth does ultimately hinder the efforts here. Despite the fantastic effects, this is a traditional narrative about an underdog vying for love and financial success and a corporate villain (Ben Mendelsohn) who wants all the power for himself. Ready Player One will likely delight fans of action films, pop culture lovers and video game aficionados alike but those looking for a deeper story may find something lacking here. Looking for more reviews? Make sure you subscribe to my YouTube page here.
Station 19, which premieres tonight on ABC, is the latest Shonda Rhimes production. Rhimes is the uber-successful executive who has produced the network’s Thursday night hits Grey’s Anatomy, Scandal and How to Get Away with Murder. Each of those shows celebrates their unique characters and their strong protagonists. It’s unfortunate then that Station 19 — a Grey’s Anatomy spinoff — feels so forgettable. The first episode, which was available for review, introduces us to the team at one of Seattle’s many fire stations. Station 19 is managed by the serious-minded Pruitt Herrera (Miguel Sandoval). Herrera believes in unit discipline and taunts his officers by preventing them from sliding down the fire house pole. The chief suffers a medical ailment in the first episode, setting up an interesting rivalry between Herrera’s daughter Andy (Jaina Lee Ortiz) and Lieutenant Jack Gibson (Grey Damon). This being a Rhimes production, the duo are romantically involved at work and at home. Andy is undeniably the show’s main character and comes to the forefront after her father is hospitalized. But Andy doesn’t have the unique appeal of some of Rhimes’ other protagonists. In fact, she seems like a step backwards. Even before the revelations about her father’s condition, Andy is upset about Gibson potentially proposing to her. Soon enough, she’s reconnecting with an old flame named Ryan (Alberto Frezza), setting up a potential love triangle. The triangle lacks the heat and passion that might make it interesting (maybe that depth would be revealed in later episodes) and its clumsy introduction doesn’t serve the story well. The program’s workplace doesn’t even come alive in the way that the Grey’s Anatomy hospital did in its early seasons or Annalise’s law firm did at the beginning of How to Get Away with Murder. Ryan Murphy’s Fox drama 9-1-1 (which similarly features the comings and goings of a fire department) offers a much more exciting and unique look at the daily workings of a fire house. In Station 19, the fire station and the work of the fire department often takes a back seat to the romantic entanglements and Andy’s relationship with her father. For a show centered around a fire station, the work of the firefighters is ironically often left on the back burner. As a Grey’s Anatomy spinoff, the pilot does contain an obvious connection to that ABC hit. Dr. Ben Warren (Jason George) has transferred over from the Grey Seattle hospital to this fire station. He’s considered the station’s new guy and is derided as such. This series’ pilot does include a nice little scene with him and Dr. Miranda Bailey (Chandra Wilson), who reminds him of how to show off his talents. “The only way to prove that you’re any good is to be good,” she says. One only wishes that the show would’ve followed that philosophy. This show’s premiere episode never offers much for viewers to hold onto. It feels very safe, a marked departure from some of Rhimes’ other shows, which could grip viewers very quickly. Rhimes will soon be moving on to Netflix, where she might have more freedom to explore interesting characters and set-ups. For now, Station 19 lacks the unique footprint that could make it stand out. Grade: C Looking for more reviews? Make sure you subscribe to my YouTube page here.
Maria Bartiromo, anchor of Mornings with Maria on Fox Business Network and Sunday Morning Futures on Fox News Channel, sat down with Starbucks CEO, Kevin Johnson, Wednesday morning to discuss the company's anti-bias training at stores across the country and their new bathroom policy. Maria joined Fox News Radio's Guy Benson and Marie Harf to discuss this interview and the volatility of the market. On the authenticity of Starbucks' anti-bias training: I don't think it was damage control. This isn't the first time the company has been upfront about social issues. I think they went too far by saying everyone come in, but I think he made a point that Starbucks is a place you feel welcome. (00:30) On the market response to Starbucks' controversy: Analyst and the investment community is looking at the growth prospects and This is not really a factor in terms of owning stock and investing in the company. (2:38) On how Trump affects the markets: You have to look on the affect on business first. The corporate tax cut had a major impact. The business sector has seen growth, no doubt about it, but the consumer and the retail sales picture is murky. While we do see growth now come 2019 and 2020 we will see it slow down. (3:13) On the up and down of the market: Right now there's definitely some uncertainty about the China situation. Yesterday there was uncertainty about a trade war and then today a comfort level in terms of where that is going. I would not focus on short term moves. (6:02) Watch below:
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. FOX News Radio's National Correspondent Jared Halpern along with a team of FOX News reporters & contributors look at the week that was inside the beltway. THIS WEEK: This month, President Trump announced he'd be meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un for a summit in Singapore. On Thursday, The President decided to pull out of the summit due to North Korea's "open hostility." Rich Edson covers the State Department for FOX News and explains. This week the President claimed a "deep state" FBI informant allegedly infiltrated his campaign. FOX News Radio's Rachel Sutherland was joined by former covert CIA operations officer, Mike Baker, to pose the question, "What's the difference between a spy and an informant?" Republicans on Capitol Hill are jockeying for position as talk of replacing House Speaker Paul Ryan is ratcheting up. Jared and FOX's Senior Capitol Hill producer Chad Pergram discuss. FOX News announced this month that they are doing away with exit polls and launching a new system to provide results for election nights. So what is FOX News Voter Analysis and how does it work? Arnon Mishkin, the director of the FOX News Decision Desk, sat down with Jared to discuss finding ways to better predict election results. Listen to the latest "From Washington": Follow Jared on Twitter: @JaredHalpern Follow Rachel on Twitter: @SutherlandFox
Villanova’s NCAA Tournament hero is going out on top. Donte DiVincenzo announced Tuesday that he will sign with an agent and stay in the NBA Draft, where he is projected to be a mid-to-late first-round pick next month. “I thank everyone who has helped me reach this decision because it was not easy,” the 6-foot-5 guard wrote in an Instagram post announcing the move ahead of Wednesday’s deadline. “I strive to get better as a person and a player everyday, everything that Villanova has instilled in me will allow me to reach all goals I have in mind.” DiVincenzo, a redshirt sophomore, shot up draft boards as he led the Wildcats to the NCAA championship. He scored 31 points in the national title game against Michigan and was named the Final Four Most Outstanding Player. The 2017-18 Big East Sixth Man of the Year averaged 13.4 points and 4.8 rebounds per game. He then impressed at the NBA Combine and in individual workouts with teams, enough to forego his final two years at Villanova and begin his pro career. “Proud of our guy Donte – we have great confidence in him at the next level !!” Villanova coach Jay Wright tweeted.
As we head into a long holiday weekend, markets have been given a lot of chance to react this week to more news catalysts. Improvements in the trade talks with China. A fallback in the trade talks with China. A step forward with North Korea. A step backward (and now cancelled "Korea summit"). Political ire and conspiracy theory. Auto imports investigation? Fed dovishness permeates the May meeting minutes. Now some of these things we have long discussed how they really aren't catalysts to market movements because the markets just don't care). Others not only have been catalysts but were so this week (up big Monday, down big Thursday, etc.). But with all of this and more, we appear to be headed at press time into the end of the week into a just modestly down if not a flat week. So the directionless-ness theme may be continuing, and yet I would add, equity markets are up substantially in May (with three trading days in May to go next week). You also should note this week the introduction of a Politics Meets Markets section within the Dividend Cafe. Because we have such a large number of readers and clients who care about the political effects on markets, we believe extracting the economic and market-centric information each week that is right out of K Street will be useful to many. And with all that said, let's jump into the Dividend Cafe ... Economic Vocabulary and Investment Policy One great fallacy in media coverage and casual conversation about the present state of affairs is an inability or unwillingness to delineate between short-term rates and long-term rates. We talk about "interest rates going higher" as if they are the exact same thing when they are anything but. As all the talk about the "yield curve" makes very clear (and this week's commentary offers up important banter about the whole hubbub around "yield curve inversion"), there is not one "rate", but rather relationships between short rates, and intermediate rates, and long rates that matter. And we want you to understand this. Most of your economic activity centers around some form of short rate. Credit lines are usually hitched to things like the Federal Funds rate or the LIBOR 30-day rate. Credit cards usually are as well. Business bank borrowing too. The short-term rate in the market should be thought of as the proxy for practical borrowing costs. Corporations, Cities, States, Individuals, and even the Treasury Department, rarely lock up their financing cost to a long-dated maturity - those rare and glorious 15-year or 30-year homebuyers being the most common exception. So the short rate matters because it impacts borrowing costs for all economic actors who borrow (see list in prior sentence), but the long rates matter because they are a proxy for the actual anticipated economic growth rate. So if a 10-year treasury bond is at 2%, it is not an indication of what borrowers are paying; it is an indication that structural growth in the economy is anticipated to be awful. If the 10-year bond yield is at 8%, that is in anticipation of severe inflation. The worst place for investors is if borrowing costs (short rates) are flying higher (impacting corporate profits etc.), and yet the 10-year and 30-year rates are staying flat or going down (no growth anticipated). The pace of change between the different rates matters. The relationship between the two rates matter. But "what interest rates are doing" cannot be believed to have practical efficacy to it. Midstream energy (MLP's) back into focus A rally of over 15% in the last month or so has brought MLP's (oil and gas pipelines) back into positive territory on the year, stunning many who left the sector for dead. The thesis behind pipelines has always been, and always will be, volume. We need more oil and gas flowing through pipes. Rig counts are up 150% since mid-2016, and despite 45% of those rigs being in the Permian Basin, we are still way, way under-rigged, and under-piped, in the Permian Basin. The yields in this space compared to high yield bonds, not to mention investment grade bonds, are extraordinary. Spreads are a valuation metric, and spreads indicate this space is anything but rich! Click here to view the chart. How is this playing out across the whole energy sector? It has been quite a while since we have seen this. The relative performance of how the energy sector is doing vs. the whole market has not only trended violently better the last 6 weeks or so, but gone into the net positive for the first time in, a long time. Click here to view the chart. But is all this oil stuff good news or bad news? I wish I could give you an economically coherent answer, and I wish even more than other "pundits" would answer with some competent understanding of history. In the most basic sense, it stands to reason that oil is a commodity price, and represents an input cost for many companies, and overhead for a consumer. Therefore, it functions as a sort of "tax" and leaves less money in the pockets of people who spend money on oil-related items. We would traditionally think of this as a negative, right? But, and this cannot be said emphatically enough, all the rage throughout the oil malaise of 2014-2016 was that the low oil price meant Armageddon for the economy and stock market. It meant bond defaults, bank stress, and indicating weakening demand in the global economy. So certainly people cannot have it both ways. It cannot be a sign of bad things when it drops, and then a sign of bad things when it rises. The more cogent approach is this: It means different things at different times, whether high or low, depending on many other circumstances. Supply and demand circumstances; the geopolitical landscape; the forces pushing supply and demand; etc. all matter. When something happens that never happens Actually, what we are describing here does sometimes happen (including right now), but it is pretty darn rare. Over the last five weeks the U.S. dollar has appreciated quite a bit, and yet oil has risen substantially as well. We are used to oil and the dollar trading inversely to one another, for the obvious reason that the world oil price is denominated in U.S. dollars. If this relationship were to sustain itself - a rising dollar and rising oil prices at the same time - it would have a profound impact on emerging markets and commodity prices. There is very little reason to believe the dollar will, in fact, continue in this rise (which has been, by the way, an interruption from a 16-month dollar decline period). But because many emerging markets countries have financed their debt in U.S. dollars, especially in the corporate sector, a rising dollar raises the cost of servicing that debt. It also forces EM countries to hike their own domestic rates to fight off imported inflation, thus making their own local currency debt tougher to service. Does all of that macro/currency/dollar/inflation/rate stuff matter for an individual growing company with strong competitive advantages and great metrics and management? No, it really does not. Pricing power overcomes a lot of "stuff." But, in the short term, price movements in EM can be very driven by such things, and it behooves a disciplined emerging markets investor to be aware of this reality. We happen to not believe the dollar rally will continue like this, but if it is geared up for a longer rally than we have anticipated, short-term headwinds are likely. We don't care. But we are aware. But the yield curve is flattening ... One of my favorite things I deal with in my profession is when a whole lot of people in the media begin using a term that they do not understand, and it becomes contagious, allowing a whole lot of other people to begin using a term that they also do not understand. We are living this out in real time right now with the expression "flattening yield curve" ... Allow me to elaborate. A "flat" yield curve is when short-term interest rates and longer-term interest rates are the same, so a "flattening" yield curve is one where they are "headed that direction" (i.e. either short-term rates rising or long-term rates dropping or both). Even that, actually, is somewhat inaccurate, as it also could happen by short term and long term rates rising, but with short-term rates rising more than long-term rates do (which is what has happened in recent months. An "inverted" yield curve is when short rates are actually higher than long/longer rates, and that has very often predicted a recession. We do not have an inverted yield curve in the United States, but we certainly have a flatter one. There are all sorts of reasons for this ranging from the Fed's short-term rate movement to the lack of inflationary pressures on the long end. The talk that a flattening curve is necessarily bearish or predictive is a history-hating defiant one. Indeed, from 1994-1998 few would refer to that equity market as troubled, and yet we went for years with a reasonably flat curve. A comprehensive understanding of monetary policy, rate markets, money supply, and money flows are all necessary (in our opinion) to understand the lay of the land in capital markets. But understanding something wrongly is worse than not understanding it at all. But what if ... Could the yield curve invert? Absolutely. Will it? I am sure it will at some point. When? Could be late this year, but I suspect it will be 2019. Will a recession happen when it inverts? A recession rarely happens when it inverts, but rather after it inverts, often a year or two later (it can be less). Small cap's secret revenge Out 2018 call for the small-cap space to be the 2017 laggard that transformed into a 2018 leader has played out extremely well so far, with the small-cap index outperforming the big equity indices by almost a triple (roughly +6% vs +2% YTD). I would be remiss if I did not point you to this week's Advice and Insights podcast (embedded above, but at this link here too if you prefer) - as I spend nearly an hour interviewing our chosen small-cap equity manager, Ron Baron. It is well, well worth the listen. Politics Meets Markets - our new section - quick bullet points on the beltway, bull, and bear The announcement that the "trade war with China" is on hold caused one of the big rally days of the year last Monday. National Economic Council Director, Larry Kudlow, and Treasury Secretary, Steve Mnuchin, have helped drive a "framework" (not finished product) for a pending trade deal with China. No doubt, things feel better now on this front then they did two months ago (see chart below). How the particulars shake out (especially on intellectual property) will matter in the weeks ahead. Where does this deal potentially offer investors opportunity? We would not isolate the story of exporting liquefied natural gas to just this China/trade deal, as it has been a story we have long seen as a growth catalyst and opportunity. And yet, that story became more compelling with word that China's potential $200 billion purchase of U.S. goods will be heavily inclusive of LNG imports. U.S. agriculture is also said to be a winner in this proposed framework. But in terms of specifics, export terminals need to be built; pipelines need to bring gas to these terminals; our infrastructure is inadequate. We want to be invested in this story. Have markets shrugged off tariffs? Let's go back to the ancient history of 2-3 months ago. Three times the President made speeches about tariffs (or intent to implement tariffs) and three times the market was rocked. The move up since the hiring of Larry Kudlow can largely be thought of as the period where markets have no longer believed a real trade war was coming Click here to view the chart. I wrote elsewhere in the Dividend Café about the impact of higher oil prices on the economy and market. But let's make another observation that needs to be made - the fiscal stimulus impact (negatively) of higher oil prices on the consumer has been significantly altered by what? The tax reform, of course. How we absorb a roughly $50 billion impact in 2018 from oil prices when there is a $120 billion positive impact from tax reform is quite different than if no offsetting fiscal effect was at play … Does the inverted yield curve matter for politics? You bet it does. IF, and it is a big IF, as I go to great lengths to explain elsewhere in Dividend Café, inversion of the yield curve (short-term rates exceeding long-term rates) has historically indicated a recession each time it has happened since 1950. If the yield curve inverts in 2019 and goes into recession in 2020, that is an election year. If it inverts in 2019 or 2020, and we go to a recession in late 2020 or 2021, that will be after the election. The economy is strong, but through time, tightening monetary policy is meant to contract it. The political implications of how this all times itself will be profound when it comes to the 2020 Presidential election. I believe were it not for the tax reform bill passed in late 2017, the next recession likely would have happened in this first term; should it be pushed out a bit, well, who knows what may play out. It wouldn't be a complete recap of the week in politics and markets without a comment on the announcement late Wednesday night that President Trump was asking for a national security review under the Trade Expansion Act's Section 232 of imported automobiles. He is interested in tariffs on imported automobiles of up to 25%. Of course, it is patently absurd that this is a "national security" issue, and I expect the market will react to it the way it has had to learn to react to much of this jawboning - which is, to take it as jawboning. Could it be a "negotiating tactic" with Canada and Mexico as they re-work NAFTA (if so, it does sort of beg the question how long everyone can know something is merely a "negotiating tactic," before it no longer helps negotiate tactically)? Would it hurt the significant domestic industry we now have building cars from foreign makers here in the U.S.? The reality is that all of this talk is bad economics, and bad for markets, and yet, to the President's credit, none of it has yet proven to be anything but posturing. I say that to his credit. Chart of the Week Are interest rates "breaking out" to new secular highs? We stand firmly in the camp that says no, and have offered our fundamental defense of that position repeatedly in recent weeks. This is a very long-term history of this secularly declining bond yield; the idea that a secular reversal is in order strikes us as requiring some catalyst - a catalyst not being offered by advocates of that position. Click here to view the chart. Quote of the Week "Some writers have so confounded society with government as to leave little or no distinction between them; whereas they are not only different, but have totally different origins." -- Thomas Paine * * * I hope all the charts have made this week's Dividend Café more readable. I want to close out this week's Dividend Café with a comment unrelated to capital markets or the economy, but very pertinent to the Memorial Day holiday we will celebrate this holiday weekend. We do not take for granted those who have given their lives serving in the armed forces. We hold no such pretension that there would be capital markets to monetize if it were not for the freedom we enjoy, a freedom paid for by the blood and lives of the heroic souls who have fought for this country. I will also be enjoying the normal outdoor, BBQ festivities of a Memorial Day weekend (and taking in a Yankee/Angel game to boot). But as for me and my house, we shall also pause to remember what we memorialize on Memorial Day. Gratitude abounds. God Bless America. David L. Bahnsen writes at the Dividend Cafe.
OAKLAND, Calif. — One NBA scout was discussing The Finals opponents, the Cavaliers and Warriors, and made a point. “LeBron James is No. 1, no question, but Kevin Durant, you can argue, is the second-best player alive. And I don’t think he gets enough credit,” the scout said. “It almost seems like when the Warriors win, it’s because Steph Curry played well. When they lose, it’s because Steph Curry played poorly. Did you ever hear anyone say the Cavs lost because someone other than LeBron didn’t play well?” Valid point. Durant takes it in stride. Like Wednesday, when he was asked about his Game 7 against Houston, the game that propelled the Warriors back here for a fourth straight NBA Finals run. Durant had a 13-point first half, a 21-point second half. So how was he able to block out that awful first half — which probably was a first half many would sell the family pet to produce. “Well, this is my 11th year in the NBA. I know a lot of people probably didn’t watch me play before I got to the Warriors. But I was in the league before I got here, and I learned a lot along that time,” Durant said tongue-in-cheek. “I actually won an MVP award. I went to the Olympics. Scored a couple points.” Thought he looked familiar. And it isn’t just because he is averaging a team-best 29.0 points in this postseason, along with 7.1 rebounds for the Warriors. What matters is that he has a chance at a second title. The first came last year when he was Finals MVP after making the controversial jump from Oklahoma City. The general public reaction was Durant couldn’t beat ’em, so he joined ’em when he became a Warrior. There could be snide remarks that if the Cavs prevail this year, Durant might look to join the Yankees’ batting order. “It’s been exciting that we got the opportunity to go through that, and also get out of it and being in The Finals again,” Durant said after the Game 7 with Houston. “But we’re not satisfied. Definitely glad we’re playing still, but we want to finish the job. So we want to stay locked in and figure out just the best way to execute and win starting [Thursday in Game 1].” Durant though always has been exceptional in talent and approach. Cleveland’s Jeff Green recalled watching Durant as a rookie when they were teammates in Seattle, and one thing impressed above all. “His work ethic. He works on his game every day. He loves to hoop. He has a tremendous passion for this game. He gives this game everything,” Green said. “Even then I knew he would be what he is today. He has worked for everything.” While the world watches and marvels at James, Durant has been spectacular in his own way for 11 seasons, with a 27.1 scoring average. His abilities at 7-feet are freakish. He scores inside and out. He defends. He handles the ball. And he might not get the accolades he deserves on a team that was a champion before he arrived. “I’ve been asked how our team is viewed publicly, but I’m too close to it to really know. But the stars get more praise and more criticism than they deserve,” Golden State general manager Bob Myers said. “Then you get into the relatability of a guy. ‘Who’s your favorite player?’ Professional sports and the word ‘fair’ don’t belong together.”
Hours after Autotrader pulled advertising from the TBS late-night talk show Full Frontal, insurance giant State Farm suspended its ad sponsorship of the Samantha Bee-hosted show after she called White House senior advisor Ivanka Trump. “We have asked TBS to suspend our advertising in the program and are reviewing any future placements,” State Farm said in a statement Thursday to TheWrap. “We constantly review programs to ensure alignment to our programming guidelines and brand values.” State Farm’s decision to pull its ads from Bee’s weekly show came hours after Autotrader suspended its ad buys. “Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal,” read a message from the Autotrader official Twitter account. “he comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company.” “As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee,” the company’s tweet concluded. Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal. The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company. As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee. — Autotrader (@AutoTrader_com) May 31, 2018 Bee apologized for her remarks late Thursday. TBS applauded Bee’s apology but did not say if the show or its host would return. “Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night,” TBS said in a statement. “Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders demanded a response on Thursday from Time Warner and TBS on behalf of President Donald Trump. “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network,” Sanders said of Bee in a statement to reporters. “The language used by Samantha Bee last night is vile and vicious. The collective silence by the left and its media allies is appalling.” A PR representative for Turner Broadcasting did not return phone and email messages from Breitbart News. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Several recent polls, plus the popularity of Sen. Bernie Sanders, demonstrate that young people prefer socialism to free market capitalism. That, I believe, is a result of their ignorance and indoctrination during their school years, from kindergarten through college. For the most part, neither they nor many of their teachers and professors know what free market capitalism is. Free market capitalism, wherein there is peaceful voluntary exchange, is morally superior to any other economic system. Why? Let's start with my initial premise. All of us own ourselves. I am my private property, and you are yours. Murder, rape, theft and the initiation of violence are immoral because they violate self-ownership. Similarly, the forcible use of one person to serve the purposes of another person, for any reason, is immoral because it violates self-ownership. Tragically, two-thirds to three-quarters of the federal budget can be described as Congress taking the rightful earnings of one American to give to another American -- using one American to serve another. Such acts include farm subsidies, business bailouts, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps, welfare and many other programs. Free market capitalism is disfavored by many Americans -- and threatened -- not because of its failure but, ironically, because of its success. Free market capitalism in America has been so successful in eliminating the traditional problems of mankind -- such as disease, pestilence, hunger and gross poverty -- that all other human problems appear both unbearable and inexcusable. The desire by many Americans to eliminate these so-called unbearable and inexcusable problems has led to the call for socialism. That call includes equality of income, sex and race balance, affordable housing and medical care, orderly markets, and many other socialistic ideas. Let's compare capitalism with socialism by answering the following questions: In which areas of our lives do we find the greatest satisfaction, and in which do we find the greatest dissatisfaction? It turns out that we seldom find people upset with and in conflict with computer and clothing stores, supermarkets, and hardware stores. We do see people highly dissatisfied with and often in conflict with boards of education, motor vehicles departments, police and city sanitation services. What are the differences? For one, the motivation for the provision of services of computer and clothing stores, supermarkets, and hardware stores is profit. Also, if you're dissatisfied with their services, you can instantaneously fire them by taking your business elsewhere. It's a different matter with public education, motor vehicles departments, police and city sanitation services. They are not motivated by profit at all. Plus, if you're dissatisfied with their service, it is costly and in many cases even impossible to fire them. A much larger and totally ignored question has to do with the brutality of socialism. In the 20th century, the one-party socialist states of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Germany under the National Socialist German Workers' Party and the People's Republic of China were responsible for the murder of 118 million citizens, mostly their own. The tallies were: USSR 62 million, Nazi Germany 21 million and PRC 35 million. No such record of brutality can be found in countries that tend toward free market capitalism. Here's an experiment for you. List countries according to whether they are closer to the free market capitalist or to the socialist/communist end of the economic spectrum. Then rank the countries according to per capita gross domestic product. Finally, rank the countries according to Freedom House's "Freedom in the World" report. You will find that people who live in countries closer to the free market capitalist end of the economic spectrum not only have far greater wealth than people who live in countries toward the socialistic/communist end but also enjoy far greater human rights protections. As Dr. Thomas Sowell says, "socialism sounds great. It has always sounded great. And it will probably always continue to sound great. It is only when you go beyond rhetoric, and start looking at hard facts, that socialism turns out to be a big disappointment, if not a disaster."
A 32-year-old Ohio teacher found guilty of having sex with a 14-year-old student inside her locked classroom has been sentenced to one year in prison, dodging calls from the victim’s father to have her put behind bars for more than a decade. Jessica Langford, of Centerville, received five years of probation in addition to the sentence Tuesday following a 2017 incident that was said to have happened inside her Miamisburg Middle School classroom. The teen victim told jurors during her trial that they had oral sex and intercourse for around “20 to 30 minutes” on the last day of the academic year. “I wish I could go back and undo all that happened,” Langford said in court Tuesday. “I am completely responsible for my actions and should have never have used my power as a teacher and never developed a friendship with a student.” Montgomery County Common Pleas Judge Timothy O’Connell, during sentencing for Langford’s three sexual battery convictions, noted that she has had no past criminal history, the Dayton Daily News reported. She had argued that she was the primary caregiver for her mother and daughter. The sentence Langford received was in stark contrast to what the victim’s father was asking for — the maximum length of 15 years. “She was entrusted with the care of the children and students and threw it away for her own sexual gratification,” the father had said in court, according to the newspaper. “He feels embarrassed and alone. He’s bullied constantly at school and feels helpless and alone.” Langford said she and the teen “should have never exchanged any form of communication. “I felt trapped in a teacher’s life. I was distracted, I was unable to focus only on my teaching duties,” she told the court. “Being the teacher all students wanted to have, I have learned to be a great teacher – doesn’t mean I need to be a friend to students and that there should be boundaries between teacher-student relationships.”
One gym manager in Nevada has gone viral on Facebook for calling out a fat shamer in an anti-bullying video, inspired by her own 120-pound weight loss journey. Mandi Holden, manager of Anytime Fitness in North Reno, was recently inspired to speak out when she overheard a man touring the facility utter a negative comment about her size. The mother of two weighed 420 pounds before joining a gym in 2014, and decided to speak up. In the seven minute clip that has since been viewed over 212,000 times on the social network, Holden says a group was about to tour Anytime Fitness when she overheard the potential new member say, “Well, it doesn’t look like she works out very much.” MISS BUMBUM’S FIRST TRANSGENDER CONTESTANTS SPARK BACKLASH Letting the tour carry on, Holden decided that she was going to say something when they returned to her office to discuss membership options. “I’m not going to pretend like I didn’t hear it, like I usually do, because I know that people make comments all day every day. And that’s part of this job that I have accepted,” Holden recalls in the clip as she gets teary eyed. “I know how far I’ve come and the privilege of working here [is] representing fitness for everybody which is important and sometimes it comes with weird comments from people who don’t understand.” When the group returned, the manager made her thoughts clear. “”I just want to let you know, I know it looks like I don’t work out very much, but that’s because you did not see where I started from. Don’t judge a book by its cover. We don’t judge people by how they look here because you might be surprised,”” she says she told the guest. Proceeding to explain membership options without skipping a beat, Holden says that the man did not apologize, and did not ultimately sign up for the gym. However, she is proud that she chose to come forward with her message of inclusion, as her facility has a zero-tolerance policy for bullying. WOMAN WITH CHIN TATTOO ACCUSED OF APPROPRIATING NATIVE NEW ZEALAND CULTURE “Our members here are all kinds of shapes, sizes, and orientations. It’s really important for them to feel safe and that they’re not going to be made fun of. And I think I felt compelled to do the video after because that’s still OK in our culture,” Holden told Yahoo Lifestyle on May 25. “It’s so accepted to just assume that overweight people are lazy and sloppy. It bums me out because so many people of all different shapes and sizes and circumstances come in and work so hard every day.” In the days since posting the video, Holden further divulged that she feels “very overwhelmed with love” with the outpouring of support she has received, and urges others to “show kindness” no matter what. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS “If you see someone in the gym ... and they don’t look the part, you don't know where they’ve been, what they've accomplished," she said. "I beg you, please, show kindness, show empathy."
Comedian Samantha Bee is receiving significant backlash for a profane and derogatory attack aimed at President Donald Trump’s daughter, Ivanka Trump, during a monologue on her TBS show “Full Frontal.” Bee began the segment by criticizing current U.S. immigration policy that separates undocumented children from their parents. “We’re going to talk about racism, and I just popped an Ambien so everyone buck up!” Bee told the audience. She then turned her attention to a photo Ivanka had posted to Instagram of her son, Theodore. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Various media figures had already characterized the photo as insensitive and heartless in light of Trump’s immigration policy. @IvankaTrump, lovely picture. How nice that you get to hold your child in your arms and not face the anguish of having him torn from you and left to God knows what fate.#WhereAreTheChidren https://t.co/dJHvGOsU0Y — Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) May 28, 2018 What in the world is wrong with this family? Is this picture supposed to remind Mexican asylum seekers what they’ve lost? https://t.co/Vvrt7vUtJQ — Chelsea Handler (@chelseahandler) May 27, 2018 Bee took the criticism a step further, resorting to vulgar and personal attacks against the first daughter. Do you think there's a double standard in the entertainment media? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “You know Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices you feckless c***,” she said. “He listens to you, put on something tight and low-cut and tell your father to f***ing stop it.” Various media figures agreed that Bee went too far. “To me, it was so jarring,” said NBC’s Megyn Kelly. “It was so jarring. To me, hate is hate, and I think she should be condemned for it, too. It’s not to word police. It’s just hate is hate is hate.” Kelly also argued that Bee deserves to be condemned for her comment, just as comedian Roseanne Barr has been for her racially charged comment about a former Obama administration official. This is disgusting. How is this acceptable? And how are we expected to take any of these publications seriously if they gleefully repost something like this at the same time they (rightfully) condemn @therealroseanne? You know the saying Love is Love? Well Hate is Hate. https://t.co/YTjmZQ4zMV — Megyn Kelly (@megynkelly) May 31, 2018 RELATED: Adult Actress: I Was Assaulted on Set, Stormy Daniels Did Nothing CNN’s Poppy Harlow called Bee’s comments “over the line,” and “incredibly offensive.” “It’s never OK to say that about someone,” Harlow said. People on social media reacted as well, calling out the entertainment media for its double standard in light of Barr’s firing from ABC this week. “Roseanne deserved to get fired for her comment,” wrote one social media user. “Samantha Bee called Ivanka a ‘c-‘ on air and Keith Olbermann routinely calls the President a ‘motherf***er’ Do you think either will get fired? Maybe see why so many Americans think there’s a double standard for liberals.” “If this statement had been addressed to a child of a former president, Samantha Bee would be out of a job,” wrote another. Bee’s segment attacking Ivanka has now been removed from the show’s official YouTube account. TBS has not yet responded to the controversy or on whether any disciplinary action will be taken against Bee for her comment. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. In the United States, surveys show that many Millennials are not merely soft on socialism but openly support it. They think capitalism benefits only the “one percent” and no one else, despite America’s matchless record of upward mobility and prosperity. Since the 1960s, the media, Hollywood and the education system have presented a warped view of America along with a sugarcoated version of socialism. So, we should not be surprised when we see so many young people fooled by the false promises of redistributive economics. The Millennials are the main force behind Vermont’s Democratic Socialist U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, and they are pushing the Democratic Party even further to the Left. On May15, four Democrats backed by the Democratic Socialists of America (DSA) won primary elections for state legislative seats in Pennsylvania. Arielle Cohen, co-chair of the Pittsburgh DSA chapter, told HuffPost that the promise of socialized health care and “free education” helped seal the deal. “We’re turning the state the right shade of red tonight,” she crowed. Well, at least we’re getting closer to truth in advertising. Socialism is a variant of Marxism, whose most virulent form is communism, symbolized by the color red. The universal result of such regimes is economic stagnation, confiscation of property, rule by the few, mass emigration and even mass murder. No wonder America’s ruling elites at some point managed to pull off a switch in colors. They replaced Republican conservative blue with red and made blue the color of Democrat liberalism. The media enthusiastically adopted the reversed color scheme because they don’t want the masses to wake up and see where all this is going. Plus, even though elements of the Left are chronically red-eyed and furious, the media delight in casting conservative middle Americans in red because it makes them seem unattractively angry. While they’re busy trying to turn America into yet another failed state, our home-grown Democratic Socialists seem oblivious to glaring examples of the consequences of such a transformation only 105 miles south of Key West in communist Cuba or another 1,274 miles south in fast-becoming communist Venezuela. Under the Castro regime, Cuba became and still is an economic basket case with jails full of dissidents. In formerly prosperous Venezuela, President Nicolas Maduro’s latest stunt is to sue an American cereal company famous for its corn flakes because they want to cease operations. In Marxist regimes, where the Berlin Wall is a happy memory, it’s illegal to leave a workers’ paradise. On May 15, after Kellogg’s, based in Battle Creek, Michigan, announced they were pulling out of Venezuela’s collapsing economy, Mr. Maduro said he also would take over the cereal factory, located in the city of Maracay. The seizure came just before another fake national election on May 20 in Venezuela designed to further insulate Mr. Maduro and keep up the pretense of a functioning democratic republic. Mr. Maduro, who won big, was heavily favored, despite electric blackouts, food riots, zoo animals being eaten and the chronic shortage of staples such as toilet paper. It helps to jail opponents, crush or seize the opposition press and threaten anyone else who gets in your way. As for the Kellogg’s factory, which will go the way of America oil company operations nationalized under Maduro’s predecessor Hugo Chavez, "I've taken the decision to deliver the company to the workers in order that they can continue producing for the people," Maduro said. Good luck with that. Venezuela has the largest proven oil reserves in the world, yet following nationalization has managed to produce a fraction of the oil produced by countries like the U.S., Saudi Arabia and Russia. A steep drop in world oil prices has not helped. But the biggest problem was the Chavez and Maduro governments’ failure to staff the nation’s cash cow with competent executives and reinvest in exploration and equipment. Instead, they put their stooges in charge, milked the confiscated operation and redistributed the proceeds to their supporters. Venezuela’s socialism has created one of the worst inflation rates in the world. In the year ending in February, prices rose by more than 6,000 percent, according to opposition lawmakers in the National Assembly. Thousands of starving Venezuelans are pouring over the border and threatening to destabilize Colombia and beyond. After the United States defeated National Socialism and Fascism in World War II and then communism in the Cold War, many Americans thought our God-fearing country was pretty well insulated from socialist insanity. But unless they are reminded, people have short memories. The shocking affection for socialism among the nation’s young adults shows that much work remains to set the record straight.
Real Madrid manager Zinedine Zidane said Thursday he’s quitting after two and a half seasons with the club and leading them to their third straight Champions League title. Zidane said he felt like it was the right time for him and the club to make a change. “What I think is that this team needs to continue winning but I think it needs a change, a different voice, another methodology. And that's why I took this decision,” he said at a press conference. Zidane won nine titles as Madrid’s coach, including three Champions League, one Spanish League, one Spanish Super Cup, two UEFA Super Cups and two Club World Cups. The timing comes as a shock to many after Real Madrid defeated Liverpool, 3-1, in the Champions League final on Saturday. “It's a strange moment to do so, I know, but an important one too," he said. "I had to do this for everyone.” Zidane was hired in January 2016, his first major coaching job. Real Madrid now is left scrambling to find its next manager. Juventus manager Massimiliano Allegri and Italian coach Maruizio Sarri have been mentioned as possible replacements, according to BBC. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
A few celebrities slammed a photograph Ivanka Trump shared on social media Sunday amid reports that the Office of Refugee Resettlement [ORR], a federal agency, lost track of 1,500 immigrant children in the last three months of 2017. The first daughter shared the candid moment of her holding her 2-year-old son, Theodore, with a caption stating, “My [heart emoji]! #SundayMorning.” Singer Halsey and other social media users and celebrities criticized Trump’s post for her timing amid the report. “I wonder what #SundayMorning is like for the parents of 1,500 lost children your father is responsible for. F--- your #SundayMorning,” Halsey, 23, tweeted. The pop star was not the only celebrity to take notice of Trump’s photo. MEGHAN MARKLE’S HALF-SISTER SLAMS HER FOR DENYING FATHER A COAT OF ARMS: ‘IT’S A HUGE INSULT’ Comedian Patton Oswalt also criticized the post. “Isn’t it the just the best to snuggle your little one – knowing exactly where they are, safe in your arms? It’s the best. The BEST. Right, Ivanka? Right?” Oswalt tweeted. Comedian Jim Carrey also got in on the criticism by sharing a cartoon inspired by the report. HUGH GRANT MARRIES LONG-TIME GIRLFRIEND ANNA EBERSTEIN IN LONDON, REPORTS SAY “1,500 innocent children ripped from their mothers’ arms at our border. Lost in Trump’s ‘system.’ Give us your tired, your poor, your huddle masses yearning to breathe free – and we will torture them for wanting a better life. From Shining City to Evil Empire in under 500 days.” Comedian Chelsea Handler also criticized the photograph asking, “What in the world is wrong with this family? Is this picture supposed to remind Mexican asylum seekers what they’ve lost?” On Saturday, a report stated the ORR lost track of 1,500 kids. Steve Wagner, an official with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, disclosed the agency’s fumble to a Senate subcommittee last month. Fox News’ Bradford Betz and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Harvey Weinstein was indicted on sex-crime charges Wednesday, hours after the disgraced movie mogul said he wouldn’t testify before a grand jury. The grand jury voted to indict Weinstein on charges of first- and third-degree rape, and first-degree criminal sexual act, the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office said. The charges are the same that were filed by cops last week when Weinstein, 66, surrendered to face arrest in a pair of alleged sex attacks in Manhattan in 2004 and 2013. “This indictment brings the defendant another step closer to accountability for the crimes of violence with which he is now charged,” DA Cyrus Vance Jr. said. Vance — who said an investigation of Weinstein “remains active and ongoing” — also blasted what he called Weinstein’s “recent assault on the integrity of the survivors and the legal process.” “We are confident that when the jury hears the evidence, it will reject these attacks out of hand,” Vance added. Vance has in recent months faced fierce criticism over his 2015 decision not to prosecute Weinstein for allegedly groping a model to whom Weinstein apologized on a secret recording made by cops. Earlier Wednesday, a statement from Weinstein’s representatives said he decided not to appear before the grand jury “on the advice of his attorneys,” including veteran defense lawyer Benjamin Brafman. ​​In a statement, Brafman said Weinstein “intends to enter a plea of Not Guilty and vigorously defend against these unsupported allegations that he strongly denies.​” “We will soon formally move to dismiss the indictment and if this case actually proceeds to trial, we expect Mr. Weinstein to be acquitted,” he added. More than 80 women have publicly accused Weinstein of sexual misconduct ranging from harassment to rape. He has denied engaging in any “non-consensual sexual conduct.” Related Video 0:31 Harvey Weinstein tight-lipped while leaving court on May 25, 2018
North Korea’s state newspaper Rodong Sinmun on Wednesday said joint military exercises between the United States and South Korea occurring while the U.S.and North Korea plan a summit are an “intolerable mockery” of the upcoming historic dialogue. “When the DPRK and the U.S. are coming for face-to-face dialogue with the will to solve the pending issues, it is unnecessary for the U.S. to stage the joint military exercises, the main root cause of aggravating tension and bringing nuclear war to the Korean peninsula, together with south Korea,” the publication wrote. North Korean publications do not capitalize South Korea because they do not recognize the government in Seoul as a legitimate sovereign, but rather a rogue state of greater Korea, as governed by the Kim Jong-un cult. It continued that the joint military exercises raise questions as to whether the U.S. truly wants peace or seeks, instead, to pursue war. “The world people say that the U.S. persists in staging the joint military drills as it does not hope for the detente on the Korean peninsula and has no interest in reconciliation with the DPRK,” Rodong Sinmun wrote. “If the U.S. sincerely hopes for the talks, it should stop the acts of threatening its dialogue partner by force. It is high time the U.S. behaved properly, clearly seeing what is profitable for it.” On May 15, North Korean state media reported that the nation’s senior diplomats were canceling the scheduled high-level talks with their South Korean counterparts due to military drills Seoul had planned with the United States until May 25. Pyongyang claimed the drills were “targeting” them. The Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), the government news outlet of Kim Jong-Un’s regime, said: This exercise targeting us, which is being carried out across South Korea and targeting us, is a flagrant challenge to the Panmunjom Declaration and an intentional military provocation running counter to the positive political development on the Korean Peninsula. The United States will also have to undertake careful deliberations about the fate of the planned North Korea-U.S. summit in light of this provocative military ruckus jointly conducted with the South Korean authorities. South Korea reportedly said the Max Thunder drills were focused on improving the skills of pilots and were not attack exercises, as the North had suggested. In spite of this, South Korea said the drills will continue. The reaction by the North prompted President Donald Trump to cancel the planned June summit. North Korea’s state media has also increasingly expressed concern that any steps towards peace with the United States would expose the North Korean people to capitalism. North Korea’s state newspaper Rodong Sinmun ran an article Wednesday claiming that human relations in capitalist societies are based on individualism and replete with an “I must kill you to live” mentality. “Murder, rape, abduction, human trafficking, theft and swindle are committed for money, individual honor and luxury,” the communist publication wrote, adding, “In capitalist society, moral corruption of man is being further fermented by the reactionary ruling class.” The statements concluded with, “The moral corruption of man is an inevitable product of capitalist society, the article says, stressing that rampant immorality and corruption leads a country to ruin in the long run.” The regime’s newspaper has published several pieces degraded the United States as the highly-anticipated June talks approach. This week, the publication said the U.S. has a “hack media” for allowing the Trump administration to appear on TV, writing, “This is nonsense of hack media on the payroll of power, ignorant of who is the rival. U.S. media would be well advised to stop talking nonsense as hack media and deeply study what the strategic line advanced at the historic April Plenary Meeting of the Central Committee of the Workers’ Party of Korea means.” At the beginning of the month, the publication referred to western democracy as the “most reactionary and unpopular ruling system.” In March, Rudong Sinmun said America was “a human rights desert where even elementary human rights are not provided.” On Sunday, an American delegation reportedly met with North Koreans officials in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) to plan for the anticipated June 12 summit between the two nations in Singapore. On Thursday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met with Kim Yong Chol, the former military intelligence chief and one of Kim’s closest aides for dinner in New York before a series of planned meetings at the White House. During Kim and Pompeo’s New York meeting, others from the U.S. teams reportedly met with North Korean officials in Singapore and in the heavily fortified Korean Demilitarized Zone, or 38th parallel. Asked to react to the prospect of the June summit taking place, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders reportedly said, “If it happens, we’ll certainly be ready. We’re going to continue to shoot for June 12th.” Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.
The NFL has finally realized what we’ve been saying all along: Don’t take your issues out on the flag and national anthem! It’s time for Final Thoughts. It took them a solid two years to do it but, alas, the NFL owners approved a new national anthem policy that requires all players on the field to stand. Yeah, they can still pout in the locker room till their heart’s content. But at least we proud Americans don’t have to watch them disrespect our country on the field anymore! Tomi Lahren: 'Knee-Jerk Reactions' on Gun Control 'Never the Solution' Trump on 'Fox & Friends': Maybe NFL Players Who Don't Stand for Anthem 'Shouldn't Be in the Country' .@realDonaldTrump on @foxandfriends: Maybe NFL Players Who Don't Stand for Anthem 'Shouldn't Be in the Country' https://t.co/dyY5cyB1eE — FoxNewsInsider (@FoxNewsInsider) May 24, 2018 Now I know that the kneelers and their defenders say, “it’s free speech!” Well, not so fast. The field is a place of work for football players, a place of work where they make millions of dollars, yet somehow feel oppressed. The NFL, as an employer, has every right to require players in uniform to respect the flag and national anthem. Football is a job. Yeah, they can still kneel, protest, pout and peaceably assemble on their own time -- but NOT at work. Do you get to protest at your place of work? Probably not. Private companies get to dictate how their employees behave at work. That’s just the way it is. Looks like we, the sports-loving, patriotic, TV-viewing public, used our platforms and our remotes to make a difference too! Maybe the NFL and Commissioner Roger Goodell had a patriotic change of heart. Or maybe they just want to save their ratings and bank accounts. Either way, we finally have our football back! Sports are a great American pastime, which used to bring us together. The flag and national anthem used to do the same thing. It’s not about politics. It’s not about the president, the political parties, black versus white or left versus right. It’s about coming together as Americans with all our scars, our blessings, our families and our love of country. That sentiment was hijacked when certain players decided to make it political. If some players decide they still want to disrespect the United States of America, it’ll hit them in the pocketbook like it hit our hearts when they started this nonsense. That flag and that anthem might be just a piece of cloth and a song to some but, to others, it’s the symbol of freedom and sacrifice. It’s the sacred banner draped over our men and women when they pay the ultimate price for our freedom. I love the First Amendment and I encourage these players to use their platforms to influence change, raise awareness or whatever it is they are trying to do. I’m just happy these divisive and disrespectful tantrums are no longer endorsed and applauded by the NFL. God Bless America. Those are my final thoughts; feel free to disagree. From LA, God bless and take care. Tomi Lahren: Great Week for Trump, Bad Week for Iran, 'Fake News Media' & Obama's Legacy 2 Students in Elementary School Choir Kneel for Anthem at MLB Game Tomi Lahren: A Free Speech Lesson for NFL Anthem Kneelers
North Korea is continuing to carry out military drills despite ongoing peace negotiations with South Korea and the United States, according to a report Thursday from South Korean newspaper Chosun Ilbo. Having spoken to intelligence sources, the outlet reported that the North “conducted live-fire drills in waters off Wonsan, Kangwon Province from last Friday through Sunday,” adding that “the size of the fleet was even bigger than in previous years.” “Several explosions big enough to cause small earthquakes were detected, and intelligence authorities here are trying to figure out if a new type of depth charge was involved,” the report continues. The drills come despite ongoing talks between North Korea, South Korea, and the United States, as the free states seek to achieve peace deal that would involve the North dropping its nuclear weapons program. “Since December, the North has been staging military drills at levels similar to those in previous years,” an intelligence source said. As the drills took place, South Korean President Moon Jae-in held another meeting with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un in the Demilitarized Zone between the two countries, where the pair reportedly “exchanged their opinions” on the possibility of a meeting between Kim and President Donald Trump. In recent weeks, Seoul has downgraded their military exercises across the Korean Peninsula in an attempt to improve their relationship with the Kim regime and has also urged Washington not to send powerful B-52 bombers for military exercises. North Korea recently walked out of talks with the South over planned joint military drills with the United States, which the regime described as a “flagrant challenge to the Panmunjom Declaration and an intentional military provocation running counter to the positive political development on the Korean Peninsula.” North Korea’s state newspaper Rodong Sinmun warned on Wednesday that continued U.S. drills amount to an “intolerable mockery” of ongoing peace efforts, adding that the U.S. would have to “undertake careful deliberations about the fate of the planned North Korea-U.S. summit in light of this provocative military ruckus jointly conducted with the South Korean authorities.” Yet on Wednesday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo sat down with North Korea official Kim Yong-chol, still sanctioned by the State Department for his ties to various North Korean acts of terrorism, where he delivered a personal letter to Kim Jong-un saying that denuclearization talks were moving in the “right direction.” A recent report from NBC News cited an alleged CIA document concluding that intelligence officials struggle to believe that the regime will abandon his nuclear weapons program. Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.
Will Smith and Jada Pinkett had their first date in Mexico in 1995, and the rest is Hollywood history. “From Hookup to Hitched” goes inside this movie-star relationship, from the time they met on the set of “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air” to their Baltimore wedding in 1997. Their secret to 21 years of marriage is “really good sex.” Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds went from on-screen love interests to off-screen relationship goals. Sparks flew between the two, whose whirlwind love affair now has two more co-stars — their two young daughters. The love story of these red-hot starlets is a real-life Hollywood fairy tale. 1:19 Gisele said Tom Brady was ‘gay to me’ back when he had a girlfriend Tom Brady and Gisele Bündchen are one of the most envied couples in the world. This edition of “From Hookup to Hitched” goes inside the New England couple’s storybook romance. Sparks first flew in 2005, after the supermodel saw a photo of Brady. Unfortunately, the Patriots star had a girlfriend at the time. They eventually got together, and four years later, they married in a private ceremony in Santa Monica.
The vast majority of black Americans say that violence from the murderous El Salvadorian MS-13 gang is a “very serious” threat to American communities and neighborhoods, a new poll finds. In the latest Rasmussen Reports poll, about 60 percent of black Americans — more than any other racial demographic group — said MS-13 gang violence is a “very serious” threat to the U.S. Altogether, about 75 percent of black Americans said MS-13 gang violence is either “very serious” or “somewhat serious.” Less than ten percent of black Americans said MS-13 gang violence is “not at all serious.” Likewise, working and middle-class Americans are also the most concerned economic group when it comes to MS-13 gang violence. Nearly 60 percent of likely voters earning less than $30,000 a year say MS-13 violence is a “very serious” threat. Meanwhile, a majority of 52 percent of likely voters earning $30,000 to $50,000 a year say the same. Wealthy Americans, those earning $100,000 or more, are the least concerned with MS-13 gang violence. Less than 40 percent of likely voters making $100,000 to $200,000 a year say the issue is a “very serious” threat. Only 38 percent of those earning $200,000 or more a year say the same. Liberals are the most likely to say that MS-13 gang violence is not at all a threat to American citizens, with nearly 40 percent saying the gang is not a very serious issue or “not at all” a serious issue facing the nation. As Breitbart News has chronicled, Democrats and the media establishment defended the MS-13 gang after Trump attacked the criminal organization, calling them “animals.” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi leaped to the group’s defense, saying “Does [Trump] not believe in the spark of divinity, the dignity and worth of every person? ‘These are not people, these are animals.’ The president of the United States.” Trump on Nancy Pelosi: "She loves MS-13, can you imagine. Remember, I said they’re ‘animals’ and she said, how dare you say that."https://t.co/2GcafRWlwy — John Binder 👽 (@JxhnBinder) May 30, 2018
Every girl dreams of how her future husband will propose to her. And with so many men going to great lengths to impress their girlfriends, it is getting pretty hard to compete. One man, for example, faked a life-threatening injury just to propose to his girlfriend. His girlfriend cried as paramedics wheeled him into the hospital. “Baby, you’re my everything. You’re everything I’ve ever hoped for. You’re the first thing I think of in the morning. You’re the last thing I think of at night,” her boyfriend said. “I just want you to know how much I love you,” he continued. “I’ve got one question for you.” And all of a sudden, the emergency blanket is yanked off to reveal her boyfriend in a suit and tie holding roses. Her boyfriend climbs off the hospital bed and proceeds to get down on one knee as she continues to sob. “Will you marry me?” he asked. Luckily for him, she said yes, but she made sure to let him know he was never to scare her like that again. TRENDING: Mother Cries Tears of Joy After Daughter Who Went Missing 24 Years Ago is Found A man in North Dakota wasn’t quite as dramatic and got help from his grandfather to pull off the perfect proposal. Jaden Wirrenga’s grandfather, Gene Hanson, is known to plow words in his field. From messages that say “We stand for the national anthem” to simply “Merry Christmas,” his field can be seen from the skies. So, when it was time for Wirrenga to propose to his girlfriend Brooke Beske, he knew exactly who to turn to for a little creative help. Hanson spent almost three hours plowing the 10-acre field for his grandson. The final product read, “Brooke will you marry me love Jaden,” in capital letters. “They drove to Edgeley where Brooke was expecting her first airplane ride,” Hanson said. “In the flight, they flew past the message in the field and Brooke got all excited when she saw the message.” Flying over the message, Beske’s jaw dropped in shock. And then she got really excited and you can see her mouth, “oh my” to the pilot with a huge grin spread across her face. When the plane landed, Wirrenga was waiting for her. He knelt down and popped the question. It’s pretty clear from her reaction that Beske was more than happy to be able to say yes. RELATED: Wife Slips into Coma Days After Giving Birth, Husband Sings at Bedside Before She Passes Away What a sweet proposal! We wish these two the best of luck in their wedding planning and the rest of their lives together. Submit your story here, and subscribe to our best uplifting stories here. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Stephanie Grisham, Press Secretary and Communications Director for First Lady, issued a statement on behalf of Melania Trump Thursday in response to comedian Samantha Bee’s vulgar attack on Ivanka Trump. “Time and again the Trump family and members of this Administration are subjected to false reporting, hateful rhetoric and outrageous lies all in the name of freedom of speech or comedy, yet the main stream media stays silent,” Grisham said in a statement. “The double standard is truly astounding.” The TBS late-night host branded President Trump’s eldest daughter a “feckless c**t” after Ivanka Trump posted to Twitter a photo of herself holding her son. After a massive backlash prompted by the profane remark, Bee tweeted an apology. “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it,” the comedian said. I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it. — Samantha Bee (@iamsambee) May 31, 2018 The network also declared culpability for the segment and said “those words should not have been aired.” Statement from TBS: “Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night. Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” And…scene. — Judy Kurtz (@JudyKurtz) May 31, 2018 However, neither Turner nor its parent company Time Warner have indicated that CEO Jeff Bewkes will follow the lead of Disney CEO Bob Iger, who personally called Valerie Jarrett to apologize for a tweet from Roseanne Barr, who then worked for Disney subsidiary ABC.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Limping towards November... Dana Perino, former White House Press Secretary, co-host of Fox News Channel's "The Five" and host of "The Daily Briefing" and Chris Stirewalt Fox News Politics Editor and host of "Power Play", run through the daily goings on in the world of politics. This week, another night of primaries gets us one step closer to the midterms. Dana and Chris look at the matchups. Plus, Dana's sister is in town. Tales of cats, water bugs and tiny steaks to follow. And Vice Presidential trivia. LISTEN to "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What": Follow Dana Perino on Twitter: @DanaPerino and Facebook Plus pick up her books: "And The Good News Is..." and "Let Me Tell You About Jasper" now available in paperback. Follow Chris Stirewalt on Twitter: @ChrisStirewalt and subscribe to his political news note: 'FOX News Halftime Report' And pre-order his new book: "Every Man A King: A Short, Colorful History of American Populists" Click HERE for more "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What"
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The repeal of Obamacare didn’t work, and it’s understandable to want to try a different sort of fix for a health insurance system marked by skyrocketing costs. However, state-authorized expansion of short-term insurance plans is most certainly not the right way to do it. An Executive Order signed by President Donald Trump last October will let states grant greater use of what is known as short-term limited duration insurance (STLDI). While giving power over these types of policy decisions back to the states is to be applauded, state leaders should be very careful before they let more people sign up for longer stints on short-term plans. Doing so could pull healthy people from the government Health Insurance Marketplace – where those so-called Obamacare plans are sold – which will, in turn, drive up premiums for those who are left. Once premiums get high enough and constituents get angry enough, the political will might be found to finally repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, aka Obamacare, but in the meantime, we will all pay a steep price. We will pay in higher health insurance premiums. States themselves will pay in higher health care costs. The federal government will pay in higher subsidies. And then we will pay (again) in higher taxes to cover growing government expenses. Executive Order Loosens Restrictions Among the key provisions of the Executive Order is the opportunity to expand access to association health plans (AHP) as well as STLDI. AHPs are policies offered by industry associations to their members while STLDI is intended to provide health insurance for only a few months in the event someone has a lapse in coverage. Most AHPs and STDLI are exempt from Obamacare rules. That means they can have deductibles of $20,000, they don’t have to cover well-child visits to the doctor and they can put a cap on the benefits they pay. The can also exclude people with pre-existing conditions, charge more based on age or gender and keep a greater percentage of profits for themselves. Since they don’t have to adhere to Affordable Care Act standards, AHPs and STDLI can be significantly cheaper than buying insurance through the government Health Insurance Marketplace. With health insurance premiums on the rise, it stands to reason that more people will move to these cheaper options if they are available. However, it won’t be the parents with sick kids who switch coverage or the folks with cancer or anyone else who can reasonably expect to have significant medical costs in the upcoming years. Those people will stay with the exchange plans where they get better benefits. The folks that will switch to plans with low costs and crummy coverage are healthy adults. When healthy people leave the exchange, premiums rise for everyone who’s left behind. A study from healthcare innovation firm Avalere estimates 3.2 million people will enroll in AHPs and that alone will result in a 3.5 percent premium increase for everyone else left buying insurance on the individual government exchange. If premiums get too high, people might not be able to afford coverage, no matter how much they need it. And if they drop their plans, don’t think that won’t affect you. We all pay when the number of uninsured people increase. Fewer Benefits, Higher Costs STLDI is a short-term solution for those facing a lapse in coverage, but it’s no substitute for a regular policy. Consider the findings of a Kaiser Foundation analysis of short-term insurance plans: 43 percent won’t pay for mental health services 62 percent won’t pay for substance abuse treatment 71 percent won’t pay for outpatient prescription drugs 100 percent won’t pay for maternity coverage When people can’t get treatment for mental health concerns or substance abuse, it puts not only their own safety at risk but that of our communities as well. When people can’t get their prescription drugs, they end up in the ER where taxpayers and other patients indirectly pick up the tab. When women without insurance have babies, state Medicaid programs may pay but, again, the cost is ultimately passed on to taxpayers. It’s not only state Medicaid programs that will pay too. As premiums on the Health Insurance Marketplace increase, we can expect the federal subsidies tied to them to increase as well. In fact, Medicare’s chief actuary estimates that opening the doors to short-term insurance policies will cost the federal government $1.2 billion next year and $38.7 billion over the next ten years. To sum it up: President Trump’s Executive Order hands over power to make policy decisions about short-term insurance back to the states. That’s a good thing. But states need to be wary about using that power. In theory, expanding access to these plans will allow healthy adults a chance to buy cheaper health insurance. However, the reality is that those who switch will end up with subpar coverage, premiums will skyrocket for those left on the exchange and the government will pay through the nose for subsidies and care for the uninsured. The federal government is the one that failed to present a viable alternative to Obamacare. Now, they seem to think telling states they can expand access to STLDI will somehow solve the problem. However, they are only setting up states and working families for higher costs. That is unacceptable. The government needs to do better.
At first, when I looked at the photo, I couldn’t believe I was looking at the same person. Victor was holding his driver’s license next to his face, but he didn’t look anything like the man pictured on the card. The face staring at me from the license was visibly plump, with heavy jowls and eyes that squinted through chubby cheeks. The Victor holding the card looked markedly thinner: his eyes were sunken, his cheekbones protruded out of his face, and his skin stretched tight against his brow. Hunger had completely altered his appearance in a matter of months. One word etched at the bottom of the card told Victor’s entire story: “VENEZOLANO” – Venezuelan. Last weekend’s controversial presidential election in Venezuela has reminded Americans of an economic and humanitarian crisis we have ignored for far too long. If we are honest with ourselves, we might not be able to ignore it much longer. Since global oil prices took a plunge in 2014, the Venezuelan economy has been in a freefall. For decades, the country’s vast oil reserves – the largest in the world – masked the weak economic state of the country and the destructive reality of socialism. Now, Venezuela stands on the brink of a catastrophe on par with the world’s worst refugee crisis – and it’s unfolding in our backyard. In the past two years, nearly 1 million Venezuelans have fled to surrounding countries, putting pressure on economies in the region. They live in crowded shelters and peddle to buy food and medicine for themselves and relatives back home. But the fate of refugees is arguably better than those who remain behind. Those still inside Venezuela live in a desperate state. Evidence of this is how getting pregnant in Venezuela has turned into a curse. In 2016, the infant mortality rate rose 30 percent, while maternal mortality spiked by 65 percent. Baby formula is so scarce that it’s not even available in hospitals and can only be bought at exorbitant prices on the black market. In moments of desperation, women have turned to sterilization out of fear of getting pregnant and not having enough food to sustain themselves or a child. At home, the situation doesn’t get any better. A recent survey conducted by three Venezuelan universities revealed 80 percent of homes in Venezuela are food insecure. Two in three Venezuelans report having lost 20 pounds or more in the past year. In fact, food insecurity at home is so bad, it has driven boys to run away and join bands of scavengers that fight over territorial control for collecting and selling recyclables. Hunger is driving Venezuelans to extremes. Our contacts in the area have shared stories – and pictures – with us (like the one mentioned above) of emaciated families and babies. In one village in particular, a mob broke into a farmer’s field and killed and ate his cattle on the spot. Sadly, amidst this unspeakable suffering, the Venezuelan government has closed the doors to international aid. Even more alarming, there are reports that political parties manipulated people’s hunger to influence the presidential election. World Help has managed to strategically work with internal partners and churches in the area to provide food to families in need. I honestly cannot share more information on how we distribute food and aid in Venezuela without putting our partners in danger – but I can tell you we do it in small amounts, and that our partners are literally risking their lives to help people desperate for a meal. As the world’s attention returns to Venezuela this week, we must take this opportunity to remind ourselves we cannot keep ignoring this crisis. Millions continue to suffer with every day that passes. And while we might not be able to fix all of Venezuela’s problems, we can at least do our part to raise awareness and reach as many people as possible with aid and hope.
0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths.
When he isn’t biking down the Pacific Coast Highway with George Clooney or opening nightlife boîtes, Rande Gerber, 56, is kicking back in the Hamptons with his wife, supermodel Cindy Crawford, and their two children (also pro models). As a celebrity fan of Westhampton Beach’s, as well as Casamigos tequila — which sold for $1 billion in 2017 — Gerber’s profile has never been higher. Here, the model-turned-lifestyle mogul runs the numbers on living the good life. 50,000 Miles Gerber has ridden his Honda 750 motorcycle on cross-country adventures. “George [Clooney] and I have been taking motorcycle trips together for 15 years. We don’t use GPS — only maps and intuition,” Gerber tells Alexa. Four Casamigos spirits Gerber created with partners George Clooney and Mike Meldman: Blanco, Reposado, Añejo and the latest — Mezcal. 1991 Year he stopped modeling to launch the Whiskey Bar in Ian Schrager’s Paramount Hotel in NYC. Gerber has gone on to open more than 40 hot spots, including Mr. Purple. 20 Years he and Cindy Crawford have been married. Their kids, Presley and Kaia, are also top models. “We are very proud of them and support the paths they are passionate about.” 4 Guitars Gerber keeps in his Hamptons house, gifted to him by greats like Kid Rock, Eddie Vedder and Lenny Kravitz. “I play a little but also like to keep the guitars around for when friends come over.” 1967 Model year of his prized Corvette (above), a gift from his wife. “There’s nothing like driving a Corvette.”
A first-person shooter video game that allows players to assume the role of a school shooter received massive backlash a week before its June 6 release. Due to that backlash, Valve, Inc. decided to remove the game from its digital platform known as Steam. The game, called "Active Shooter," developed by Revived Games and set to be published by ACID, came with the following description: Active Shooter - the Simulation. Pick your role, gear up and fight or destroy! Be the good guy or the bad guy. The choice is yours! Only in "Active Shooter", you will be able to pick the role of an Elite S.W.A.T member or the actual shooter. Lead your team, extract civilians and neutralize the shooter. To say the game and its content are grotesque and insensitive is an understatement. Its potential release was even more troubling considering the United States has dealt with numerous school shootings over the last few months. 'Psychological Horror' Gameplay shows players walking the halls of a school, using various firearms to gun down unsuspecting students and S.W.A.T members trying to stop the carnage. A box in the corner of the screen keeps a kill count. Thousands of outraged Americans started a petition through Change.org to prevent the game's release on Steam, the digital platform created by Valve, Inc. that allows gamers to purchase new games, share content, and talk in forums with other members of the gaming community. As of now, the petition has garnered more than 200,000 signatures. If gamers search for the game on Steam's website, the search comes back with nothing. Before Valve, Inc. removed the game, users would see a warning that stated, "Content in this product may not be appropriate for all ages, or may not be appropriate for viewing at work." Under the warning are various tags that help describe the content in the game, with some being more fitting than others. Among them are the descriptions "Violent" and "Psychological Horror." The Violent Video Game Obsession Following every mass shooting, there is the usual call for more gun control. But there are also calls by psychologists and political commentators to take a closer look at American pop culture and entertainment, as many people believe that things like explicit music, graphic movies, and violent video games, are possible factors that influence school shooters and teach them to devalue human life. After the Sandy Hook school shooting, analysts and commentators stated the shooter was obsessed with violent video games, such as Call of Duty, another first-person shooter video game that is played by millions of people around the world. Stephanie Robinett, the creator of the petition, asked the question everyone seems to be asking, "How can anyone sleep at night knowing that they are profiting from turning deadly school shootings into entertainment?" The start of the game came with the following disclaimer: Revived Games believes violence and inappropriate actions belong in video games and not real world, and insists that in no event should anyone attempt to recreate or mimic any of the actions, events or situations occurring in this game. But people said the disclaimer changes nothing. In a statement to NBC News, Ryan Petty, the father of Alaina Petty, one of the young girls killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on Valentine's Day, said, "Keeping our kids safe is a real issue affecting our communities and is in no way a 'game.'" Another parent of one of the Parkland victims, Fred Guttenberg, who is filing a lawsuit against the gun store where the shooter bought his firearm as well as the gun manufacturer that made it, asked his Twitter followers to contact the company to have the plug pulled on the game. The pressure certainly paid off. In a statement to Deadline, Valve, Inc. explained why the game would no longer be available on its site: We have removed the developer Revived Games and publisher ACID from Steam. This developer and publisher is, in fact, a person calling himself Ata Berdiyev, who had previously been removed last fall when he was operating as “[bc]Interactive” and “Elusive Team”. Ata is a troll, with a history of customer abuse, publishing copyrighted material, and user review manipulation. His subsequent return under new business names was a fact that came to light as we investigated the controversy around his upcoming title. We are not going to do business with people who act like this towards our customers or Valve. The broader conversation about Steam’s content policies is one that we’ll be addressing soon. Fred Guttenberg praised the news, saying, "Wow, this is amazing news!!!" Wow, this is amazing news!!!https://t.co/004mjsntsV — Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) May 29, 2018 Active Shooter isn't the first game of its kind, as another video game was created in 2005 to mimic the 1999 mass school shooting at Columbine High School. While other popular video games like Grand Theft Auto, Saints Row, and Watch Dogs aren't games where players specifically take on the role of school shooters, they allow gamers to shoot innocent civilians and police officers indiscriminately. Whether or not one believes that violent video games influence mass shooters or desensitize Americans to violence, the issue will be debated for years to come.
CNN reporter Jim Acosta’s reporting on celebrity activists is under fire after recent remarks about Kim Kardashian West’s Oval Office meeting with President Trump. The network’s chief White House correspondent found out on Wednesday evening that the internet never forgets. His decision to pan a prison reform meeting between Kardashian West and the commander in chief was greeted by industry colleagues who reminded him of his coverage on this same issue under former President Obama. “She shouldn’t be here, talking about prison reform, it’s very nice that she is here but that’s not a serious thing to have happened here at the White House,” Mr. Acosta said after the celebrity implored Mr. Trump to grant a pardon for Alice Marie Johnson, a great-grandmother serving a life sentence for a nonviolent drug offense. Mediaite’s Joseph Wulfsohn, Fox News, the Daily Caller, and the conservative blog Hot Air were just a few of the media outlets to revisit Mr. Acosta’s coverage of the same issue with singer John Legend. “Acosta sat down with the Grammy-winning artist and discussed his music, Black Lives Matter, and yes, prison reform, something Legend at the time was planning on meeting with Obama about,” Mediaite’s Joseph A. Wulfsohn wrote Thursday. Acosta was genuinely engaged with Legend during the interview and took him seriously not only as an entertainer but as a political thinker.” An April 24, 2015, tweet by Mr. Acosta included a picture of him with Mr. Legend that said, “After #WHCD tune in for a must see interview with the great @johnlegend who joins us this Sunday on @CNNsotu.” Fox News contributor Stephen Miller tweeted the CNN reporter with a side-by-side comparison of coverage during the Obama and Trump years but received no response. CNN did not immediately respond to a request for comment when contacted by Fox. Copyright © 2018 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Garth Brooks did everything to shield his children from the limelight, even shutting down his own career until his three girls left for college. And yet from the time his youngest Allie Colleen was 8 years old, writing and playing music was the only thing this powerful singer/songwriter has wanted to do in life. Subscribe and download on your favorite podcast platform: Apple Podcasts, Google Play, Tune In, Stitcher. In this episode, we find out Allie had to sneak around the house at night just to hear her Daddy sing. "Honestly," she says, "they were phenomenal in that they shut down everything" referring to her Dad's career. "I don't know what it's like to have a celebrity parent. My Dad was there every night." A child of divorce, Allie says her parents set up a system where she and her siblings would switch houses at the same time every night because they wanted the girls to see both parents every day. As a result, she might have misplaced a science book or a favorite pair of jeans in the swap, but she had a fairly normal, loving upbringing and even refers to her step-mother Trisha Yearwood as her bonus mom. We find out that Allie promised her Dad that she wouldn't sign a record contract until she graduated from college, but with a degree in hand from Belmont University, this talented singer is poised to make her mark. In this episode, she sings some of her best original songs, including Stoneheart, Close Enough and Neverland. Robert K. Oermann hosts this interesting look at an up-and-coming artist with the producer, Brad Newman by this side. Like us on Facebook. Follow us on Twitter and Instagram. We want to know what you think. Pitch us an artist, or simply spread the word and find out more about the series. #childrenofsong
Colt Ford and Tyler Farr traded in their cowboy boots and hats for button downs and sweater vests. The country singers teamed up for a music video for their new song "My Truck" exclusively premiering on FoxNews.com. "I just thought it was time for a really funny video and I knew Tyler would be on board with this idea," Ford told Fox News. "Tyler has been one of my best friends in this business for a long time, so it was really easy for us to act silly and be a little nuts -- that’s how we always act," he said with a laugh. "My Truck" featuring Farr is the latest single from Ford's album "Love Hope Faith." The music video was shot in Nashville, Tennessee and directed by Potsy Ponciroli for Hideout Pictures. The singer will soon be announcing his 35 city plus "Ride Through The Country" tour.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. T.S. Eliot famously wrote that April is the cruelest month, but when it comes to America's fiscal picture, nothing could be further from the truth about this April. The latest government numbers confirm that last month was a blockbuster for growth, federal revenues and deficit reduction. One of the key principles of Trumponomics is that faster economic growth can help solve a multitude of other social and economic problems, from poverty to inner-city decline to lowering the national debt. We're not quite at a sustained elevated growth rate of 3 percent yet, but the latest economy snapshot tells us we are knocking on the door. The growth rate over the last four quarters came in at 2.9 percent, which was higher than any of the eight years of Barack Obama's presidency. Halfway through this current quarter, which began on April 1, the Atlanta Federal Reserve estimates growth at 4 percent. If that persists through the end of June, we will have reached an average growth rate of 3 percent under Donald Trump. Not bad, given that nearly every liberal critic trashed the president's campaign forecast of 3 percent to 4 percent growth as an impossible dream. Economists such as Larry Summers, Obama's first chief economist, gloomily declared that we were mired in a new era of "secular stagnation" and that 3 percent growth was unachievable. Paul Krugman of The New York Times said it was more likely we would see flying cars than 3 percent to 4 percent growth. Now for the even-better news. We are already starting to see a fiscal dividend from President Trump's tax, energy and pro-business policies. The Congressional Budget Office reports that tax revenues in April -- by far the biggest month of the year for tax collections because of the April 15 filing deadline -- totaled $515 billion, which was a robust 13 percent rise in receipts over last year. MoneyWeek reports that the $218 billion monthly surplus (revenues over expenditures) this April was the largest ever, with the previous record being $180 billion in 2001. (April is always the one surplus month.) Here's the simple lesson: More growth, more tax revenue. But there's another lesson, and it is about how wrong the bean counters in Congress were who said this tax bill would "cost" the Treasury $1.5 trillion to $2 trillion in lost revenues over the next decade. If the higher growth rate that Trump has already accomplished remains in place, then the impact will be well over $3 trillion of more revenue and thus lower debt levels over the decade. Putting people to work is the best way to balance the budget. Period. Critics will dismiss the importance of these higher revenue collections by arguing that the new receipts are for 2017 tax payments, which don't take account of the tax cut that passed in December. This ignores that some of the growth we have seen was a result of the anticipation of the tax cut. Moreover, the fact that the tax cuts are just sinking in means that we should get even higher growth rates for the next several years at least. Alas, it is not all good news in the April surprise. The inexcusable omnibus spending bill increased federal spending by some $300 billion in 2018, and we are starting to feel the impact of that splurge. Federal outlays are up 8.7 percent in April. That's unforgivable, given that Republicans run everything in Washington these days. No one thought that Trump could ramp up the growth rate to 3 percent or that his policies would boost federal revenues. But he is doing just that -- which is why all that the Democrats and the media want to talk about these days is Russia and Stormy Daniels.
Warning: Story contains graphic image A journalist was found beaten to death on a dirt path in Mexico — becoming the third reporter to be killed in the country in the past two weeks, local prosecutors said. see also Mexico is more dangerous than ever Mexico posted its highest homicide rate in decades, with the... Hector Gonzalez Antonio, who chronicled the bloodshed flooding his home state of Tamaulipas for the paper Excelsior, became a victim of it. His corpse was discovered Tuesday on a narrow road in Ciudad Victoria, his shirt and pants soaked in blood, wearing only one shoe, according to an image by Agence France-Presse. The Tamaulipas attorney general’s office said in a statement Tuesday they are investigating what prompted the murder. Bordering Texas, Tamaulipas is one of the most lawless states in the country, ravaged by gang violence and drug trafficking. Another reporter, Carlos Dominguez, a 77-year-old columnist who covered corruption and organized crime in the country for over 40 years, was stabbed at a traffic light there in front of his family in January — making him the first journalist to be murdered in Mexico this year. Gonzalez is the sixth journalist to be killed in the country in 2018. Last year, nine journalists were killed there, according to the nonprofit Committee to Protect Journalists, making Mexico one of the world’s most dangerous places for journalists. On May 15, gunmen killed radio news host Juan Carlos Huerta in Tabasco state. And on May 24, Alicia Diaz Gonzalez, a business reporter, was found killed in her home in Monterrey. Gonzalez wrote about security and politics — two notoriously dangerous subjects for Mexican reporters, Jan-Albert Hootsen, Mexico representative for CJP, told the Los Angeles Times. “There is no indication that the situation for journalists in Mexico will improve. There’s a complete lack of political will to put a stop to these killings,” Margaux Ewen, the North America director of Reporters Without Borders, told the Washington Post in February. On Wednesday, colleagues rallied around Gonzalez. “Rest in peace, dear Hector. You were a great reporter and we will remember you… We will never stop demanding justice,” tweeted Pascal Beltran del Rio, editorial director of Excelsior. With Post wires
Sheltering unaccompanied minors who crossed the United States-Mexico border cost American taxpayers more than $1 billion last year, a new report reveals. In 2017, a total of $1.4 billion in taxpayer money was spent on housing unaccompanied minors and keeping them comfortable, the Washington Times‘ Stephen Dinan reports. Each unaccompanied minor costs taxpayers $670 each day. As Breitbart News reported, more than 13,000 unaccompanied minors were resettled across the country in Fiscal Year 2018, with less than four percent of unaccompanied minors being deported. More than 13K Unaccompanied Minor Border-Crossers Resettled Across America in Fiscal Year 2018https://t.co/Ohb0SymIVr — John Binder 👽 (@JxhnBinder) April 2, 2018 The rise of the Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC) program has coincided with a massive rise in MS-13 gang violence. For example, most recently Breitbart News reported how nearly 100 MS-13 gang members have been arrested and found to have used the UAC program to enter the U.S.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Roseanne Barr lost her new television show. Barr, in a tweet about Barack Obama aide Valerie Jarrett, said of Jarrett: "muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj." The comedian deleted the offensive tweet, but the damage was irreversible. The reaction was swift. The Rev. Al Sharpton tweeted: "The comparison ... of ... Valerie Jarrett to an APE is racist and inexcusable. ABC must take action NOW!" The Disney-owned ABC issued the following statement: "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show." Barr left Disney little choice. Standing by her would have meant advertiser boycotts, forcing any company that advertises on her show to explain their association with a "racist." But what are the rules? Disney also owns ESPN, the sports cable channel that employs Keith Olbermann, whose angry, unhinged tweets about President Donald Trump make Barr's anti-Jarrett tweet look like a love note. Here's one Olbermann tweeted at Ivanka Trump, Trump's daughter: "Then tell your racist, white supremacist, neo-nazi father to get the f--- out of our society." One would think that Disney would find Olbermann's tweets "abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with (their) values." As for MSNBC's Sharpton, he also said that Barr's tweet shows that Trump is "normalizing" racism. Remember Sharpton became famous by falsely accusing a white man of raping a black teen. A New York grand jury called the accusation a hoax, and Sharpton was successfully sued for defamation. But to this day, Sharpton refuses to apologize. Sharpton helped fan the flames during the deadly 1991 Crown Heights, New York, riots by leading some 400 protesters through the predominately Jewish section of Brooklyn. Days before the deadly riots, Sharpton said at a rally in Harlem, "If the Jews want to get it on, tell them to pin their yarmulkes back and come over to my house." Sharpton once called David Dinkins, the first and only black New York City mayor, a "n----- whore." Sharpton described Jews as "diamond merchants" and whites moving into Harlem as "interlopers." Unwilling to wait for the Ferguson grand jury to finish its investigation of the police shooting death of Michael Brown, Sharpton took to the streets of Ferguson yelling, "No justice, no peace." The grand jury exonerated the officer. No remorse by Sharpton. No apology. No cancellation of his show. Bill Maher has long hosted a show on HBO and gets top pundits to appear. No guest seems bothered by Maher's sexist, vicious put-downs of Republican women. In his stand-up, Maher called Sarah Palin a "c---" and a "dumb t---" -- both offensive and derisive slang words for female genitalia. Maher defended himself by insisting that in his stand-up act, political correctness is off-limits. Michael Richards committed career suicide when, during a comedy stand-up, he shouted down black hecklers by repeatedly using the N-word. That this occurred in a stand-up act was no defense for him. Richards has barely been heard from since. Maher also called Palin and Michele Bachmann "two bimbos." Maher referred to Palin's son with Down syndrome as "retarded." In January 2013, Maher said that Donald Trump should prove he wasn't "the spawn of his mother having sex with an orangutan." Isn't this pretty much what Barr said? Meanwhile at CNN, Erin Burnett hosts a daily show. When Burnett worked for MSNBC, she referred to then-President George Bush, standing in a group of politicians, as "the monkey in the middle." CNN's Van Jones called Trump's election a "whitelash," and fellow host Don Lemon, who calls himself a "journalist," recently pronounced President Trump "a racist." Well, that settles that. One can't even keep track of the many offensive things said on the Disney-owned ABC show "The View." Panelist Sunny Hostin attributed Trump's victory to racism: "Twenty percent of people voted because of racism, and I think after eight years of a black president there was no way that (Clinton) was going to win." The outrage over Barr's offensive tweet is understandable. But why is there a no-fly zone over Maher, Olbermann and Sharpton? Laura Ingraham took a relatively mild swipe at Parkland gun control activist David Hogg, apologized, but had to weather an advertiser boycott. The swift cancellation of Barr's show demonstrates yet again that the National Review editor John O'Sullivan was right. "White racism," Sullivan said, "does exist, but its social power is weak and the social power arrayed against it is overwhelming."
This year’s state legislative elections might have created a window of opportunity for Nebraska’s school choice advocates, who are guarded in their optimism about the 2017 legislative session. Katie Linehan, executive director of Educate Nebraska, says she is “optimistic” about seeing “something happen.” But others, including Tom Venzor, executive director of the Nebraska Catholic Conference, would say only that they are “hopeful.” State Sen. Bob Krist, who has offered several previous tax-credit scholarship measures, said he will once again introduce a tax-credit scholarship measure. “I believe it’s the right thing to do,” Krist said. “I’m optimistic every time I put it in.” Read more here.
The "most magical place on Earth" experienced a serious scare when an Arizona man falsely informed Walt Disney World guests that there was an active shooter present as an “experiment” for his YouTube channel. On May 21, around midnight, Dillon Burch was arrested after spreading panic in the Contemporary Resort and saying that the building was on lockdown, WKMG reported. According to an affidavit, the 22-year-old man began alerting people at the bus stop of the false threat, before moving to the mini beach to warn hotel manager Erin Taylor and two others, as per The Washington Post. As Taylor began to panic, Burch said he was just joking and that recording people’s reactions was an “experiment” for a YouTube video. VETERAN KICKED OFF RIDE FOR NOT HAVING ‘REAL LEGS’ CALLS ON SIX FLAGS TO CHANGE POLICIES When confronted by another hotel manager, Jose Castillo, Burch changed his tune and alleged the stunt was for a "school project.” Castillo chastised Burch that he should not have done that and informed him authorities were on their way to speak to him. Burch then told Castillo not to follow him, fled across the parking lot and hid in a row of bushes of the hotel’s property, WKMG reported. When an Orange County sheriff’s deputy arrived at the scene, Burch proceeded to crawl out of his hiding place and announce that he was the one they wanted. Law enforcement officials found a beer in his backpack and reported that the man was “highly intoxicated,” People reported. POWER OUTAGE AT OHIO AMUSEMENT PARK STRANDS RIDERS ON ROLLER COASTERS, GONDOLA LIFT Contemporary Resort was subsequently put on lockdown because of Burch’s claims. Burch was also booted from his hotel room, and has been banned from Walt Disney World property, documents say. Burch appeared in court on May 22 and was charged with “disturbing the peace at a public lodging and disorderly intoxication,” to which he pleaded no contest. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS Disney World did not immediately return Fox News’ request for comment.
Roseanne Barr posted what many are convinced was a racist tweet, and ABC summarily canceled her sitcom. As Roseanne is considered a Donald Trump supporter and Trump is widely accused of racism, people are loosely smearing Trump as responsible for her, however indirectly. Maybe I'm defensive about loose charges of racism, but if so, I've acquired my defensiveness honestly, because racism has become the left's favorite categorical smear of conservatives and Republicans. It's not something I'm imagining. I've written about it many times, basing it on my observations of leftists and Democrats in action. I don't believe that Democrats are racists, but I do believe they cynically exploit racial smears against Republicans as part of their strategy to retain a disproportionate percentage of African-American and other minority voters, without which they would be reduced to a permanent minority party. Considering the closeness of so many national elections, can you imagine the electoral impact of even a small percentage of African-American voters leaving the Democratic Party and voting Republican? Trust me, Democratic apparatchiks believe it -- and act accordingly. Their fear leads to such baseless, disgraceful claims as the one about how George W. Bush purposely left blacks stranded on rooftops in New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina because they were black and Republicans don't care about blacks. It has always particularly frosted me that conservative policies are associated with racism even though our policies, historically, expand opportunity and prosperity for African-Americans and other minorities. Indeed, we aspire to colorblindness rather than the individually degrading identity politics habitually practiced by Democrats. We've recently learned, for example, that African-American and Hispanic unemployment numbers are at historical lows. You would think that after a while, word would get out that Republican actions speak louder than Democratic words and there would be a mass conversion of minorities from the Democratic Party to the GOP. Frankly, I'm surprised it hasn't happened already, not just because of the serial failure of Democratic policies and the success of Republican ones but because of the drippingly patronizing attitude Democratic politicians have toward minorities. Why aren't minorities offended by their being used so conspicuously? My guess is that many don't have much faith in Democrats but they've been convinced that Republicans and conservatives truly are racist. Think about how outrageous my statement is -- especially if it is true. But I can't imagine a better explanation for African-Americans consistently voting in the 90 percent range for Democrats. The Democrats' slander, by the way, doesn't just hurt the Republican Party and, by extension, the nation; it also hurts African-Americans and other minorities who believe the lie that roughly half the nation (Republicans) is somehow against them. How can it be healthy for minorities to believe such a lie? How could it possibly lead to improved race relations? Democrats constantly preach about diversity and racial harmony, but they do more damage with their vilification than with their destructive policies, and that's saying something. Now back to the alleged connection between Roseanne Barr and Donald Trump. Democrats and Republican never-Trumpers are tweeting and writing that Roseanne's disgraceful Twitter outburst should be expected in the Trump era because Trump has ushered in an era of racism -- soft or hard, racism nevertheless. Plus, Roseanne is a Trump supporter, so her negatives must attach to him. I think it's a major stretch to call Roseanne a conservative. She clearly is not a social conservative, and I doubt she's much of a conservative otherwise, but let's just assume, for discussion purposes, that she is a Trump-supporting Republican. How about the claim that Trump is a racist or has created a climate conducive to racism? Well, the accusers have their talking points, and they can tick them off with the discipline of an A student on exam day, but instead of relitigating those specific statements (or actions, such as Trump's challenging Barack Obama's birth certificate or calling MS-13 gang members "animals"), I'll tell you what I think is at the root of the smear. Trump is now a Republican, and thus he is fair game to be cast as a racist for the reasons already stated. But a bigger point is that Trump's signature policy is immigration enforcement. The left -- and an increasing number of open-borders advocates on the right -- associates that policy with nativism, which is a euphemism for racism, and with outright racism. In addition, many believe that Trump is an alt-right white supremacist or, at the very least, encourages the support of this group through his policies and language. I don't believe that Trump is a racist. I reject that his policies, including his immigration policies, are racist, and I don't believe there is a strong alt-right movement in this nation. Call me naive. The charge is utterly predictable from leftists, but it is regrettable that people on the right are willing to so carelessly malign Trump as a racist and then blame him for the racially charged climate in this country. I suppose it fits the Trump opponents' narrative that Trump is the worst human being alive, someone with no redeeming character qualities, but it is lazy and reckless. Attempts to blame Trump for Roseanne Barr's ugly statements are the same kind of categorical slur that makes racism a sin. Attempts to denigrate Trump supporters by extension are even more objectionable, and as you can tell, I'm using mild, nonincendiary language here that understates my indignation on this issue. But as racism is probably the worst sin with which to be branded, people ought to be especially careful not to make such claims lightly. Shame on them for trying to shame the rest of us, for we abhor real racism every bit as much as they do -- probably way more, but as I say, my purpose here is not to inflame.
One of the most abusive business practices in American history was something called 'redlining'. Redlining was a way of treating some Americans as second-class citizens by refusing to deal with them in certain business relations. “In the United States, Redlining is the systematic denial of various services to residents of specific, often racially associated, neighborhoods or communities, either directly or through the selective raising of prices. While the best known examples of redlining have involved denial of financial services such as banking or insurance,[2] other services such as health care[3] or even supermarkets[4] have been denied to residents. In the case of retail businesses like supermarkets, purposefully locating impractically far away from said residents results in a redlining effect.[5” From Wikipedia. Redlining is discriminatory because it uses something irrelevant to business suitability as a criterion for doing business. For example, classic redlining involved banks or real estate brokers who would do business with poor white people, but not with identically credit-worthy black citizens. It would make sense for banks to look at income or credit history, of course, when making loans. However, race is economically irrelevant and therefore should not be a distinguishing feature in business. Likewise for religious and political differences. A similar practice is the increasing tendency to punish states (usually 'red' states) with the threat of not employing their citizens due to having state-level Religious Freedom Restoration Acts (which would include protections for religious individuals to not participate in business which violate conscience, such as same-sex marriages). It 'red-state-lines' them by discriminating against prospective employees simply because they live in a state with policies disagreed with by management of activists (or the increasingly-intimidated-by-activists). I recently recorded a commentary on this topic which is running on Salem radio stations: “Amazon Corporation is looking for a site at which to build a 2nd headquarters, and they've narrowed the list down to 20 American cities. But a group which calls itself 'No Gay, No Way' is pressuring the company to knock Austin; Dallas; Nashville; Atlanta; Columbus, Ohio; Indianapolis; Miami; Raleigh, North Carolina; and Washington, D.C off the list. The problem is that the red states which are less likely to embrace special protections for sexual identity also tend to be low tax. This is not about protecting gay Amazon employees. This is about power, about using economic intimidation to punish cities and states which have not yet submitted. But if the management knuckles under to activists and rejects cities with better business climates, it does so at the expense of owners, employees and customers.”
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Harvey Weinstein's recent perp walk reminds me of another great thing about Trump winning the election: Hillary Clinton isn't president. A New York Times article on Weinstein's court appearance noted how the "ground shifted" last year, finally ending the "code of silence" surrounding powerful men. Why "last year," if this has been going on for decades? The article explained that Weinstein's power was enormous, his connections extensive and his willingness to play dirty without bounds. Did Harvey lose his money and connections "last year"? Nope. But "last year" was the first year of Trump's presidency, or as I like to think of it, the first year of Hillary not being president. Ever. The liberal protection racket for sexual predators was always intimately intertwined with the Clintons. The template used to defend Bill Clinton became a model for all left-wing sexual predators. They all hired the same lawyers and detectives and counted on the same cultural elites to mete out punishment to anyone who stood in the way of their Caligula lifestyles. It was Total War against the original #MeToo movement. Even Teddy Kennedy never plotted revenge on reporters or smeared his sexual conquests as bimbos, trailer park trash and stalkers. That was the Clinton model. Showing how incestuous it was, in 2000 -- two years after Clinton's impeachment -- Weinstein used his publishing company, Talk/Miramax, overseen by Tina Brown, to take revenge on anyone involved in Clinton's impeachment. The publishing house commissioned a book by John Connolly to dig into the private sex lives of the people who had helped expose Bill Clinton, e.g., the lawyers behind Paula Jones' lawsuit, Ken Starr's staff, Linda Tripp lawyer Jim Moody, Matt Drudge, reporter Michael Isikoff and so on. Concise summary of the book: All of us were gay, except me, because I was having an affair with Geraldo Rivera. We know this because drafts of the book, "The Insane Clown Posse," soon began to leak. Talk/Miramax's editor-in-chief Jonathan Burnham denied that any private eyes had been prying into our private lives and said he'd kill the book if it were true. I went on "Rivera Live" and produced a letter given to me by an ex-boyfriend from a private eye looking for dirt on me: "My office has been engaged by John C. Connolly, a writer who has performed work for Spy, New York, Premiere, Vanity Fair and a few other magazines. The project for which my services were engaged deals with January 16th, 1998, the day Monica Lewinsky was corralled by the office of the independent counsel. Mr. Connolly has described the goal as 'a day in the life of'-type book, and to that he has directed me to conduct interviews and look into the background and activities of a few peripheral characters, including the author of 'High Crimes and Misdemeanors,' one Ann Coulter. "Nils B. Grevillius, private investigator" As a result, the book was killed. But what if my ex hadn't given me that letter? No one cared about any of our private lives. The only point was to humiliate anyone who hadn't endorsed Clinton's treatment of women as his sexual playthings. There were plenty who did. Well into the Monica Lewinsky scandal -- which followed the Gennifer Flowers scandal, the Paula Jones scandal, the Dolly Kyle Browning scandal, the Elizabeth Ward Gracen scandal, the Sally Perdue scandal and the Kathleen Willey scandal -- feminist icon Gloria Steinem wrote her infamous New York Times op-ed, announcing the "One Free Grope" rule for progressive men. "He takes no for an answer," Steinem explained. Whether he was groping Kathleen Willey in the Oval Office or dropping his pants for Paula Jones in the Excelsior Hotel, she said, Clinton "accepted rejection." Soon thereafter, we found out about Juanita Broaddrick. As Bob Herbert wrote in The New York Times, the reaction of the feminists to Clinton's predatory behavior "can most charitably be described as restrained." (This was when the Times was still an occasionally serious newspaper.) Not one Senate Democrat voted to remove Clinton from office for various felonies related to his sexual assaults. The message was clear. Liberal men got a pass for any sexual misconduct, even rape. But woe be to those who accused them. (Even last year, NBC News was still following the old rule: It fired Ronan Farrow rather than publish his Weinstein expose.) Liberal males treated progressive politics like carbon credits for rape. Last year, MSNBC's Kasie Hunt reported that Democratic sexual predators on Capitol Hill say, "I can't be sexist; I'm a progressive." Recall that Weinstein's reaction to the accusations against him was to say: "I've decided that I'm going to give the NRA my full attention. I hope Wayne LaPierre will enjoy his retirement party. I'm going to do it at the same place I had my Bar Mitzvah." It's hard to avoid the impression that a big part of the reason Weinstein was finally exposed is that the Clinton machine is dead. Trump killed it. Would anyone have called out Weinstein if his good friend Hillary Clinton were "Madame President"? I doubt it. The Clinton protection racket would have gone on and on and on. After years of feminists excusing sexual predators, once the Clintons were out of the way, the dam broke. There was no reason to keep humiliating themselves by defending the indefensible. The Worst Generation has flatlined. There are no more Clintons to save. But as absolutely intellectually convinced as I am of the Clintons' demise, I'd feel a lot better if someone would keep a wooden stake handy.
A female motorist crashed in Queens on Wednesday night and then handed her infant passenger to a bystander before fleeing on foot, law enforcement sources said. “I’m going to jail, take the baby,” the woman said, according to one witness. The woman first hit an SUV near 101st Avenue and Woodhaven Boulevard before she blew a red light and crashed again — around the corner, into a stop sign and fence outside of Elizabeth Blackwell Middle School at about 6:40 p.m., witnesses said. The driver then got out of her silver Honda Civic with New Jersey plates and handed a year-old girl to a female bystander, along with a note with the name and phone number of tyke’s father, cops and witnessed said. “I heard the crash, and when I heard it, I looked out the (apartment) window. I saw the car crashed into the fence,” said neighborhood resident Karen Nieves, 36. “She came out with a baby in her hands. She was screaming something. Then she handed the baby over to somebody and ran.” The woman, who is still at large, left a shoe behind as she bolted away on foot. She was wearing a pink and orange shirt and last seen headed north on 93rd Street, witnesses said. The little girl was taken to a local hospital for observation, police said. Additional reporting by Robert Stridiron and David K. Li
Minneapolis StarTribune: Climate change, housing, public safety headline Hodges’ 2018 Minneapolis budget Mayor Betsy Hodges proposed a 2018 budget on Tuesday that’s focused on affordable housing and combating climate change, and includes a sprinkling of funding for public safety, the arts and voter outreach. Standing at a podium alongside the full City Council at noon, Hodges spoke for 45 minutes, and laid out her priorities in the $1.4 billion Minneapolis budget. She proposed raising the levy — the total amount of property tax the city collects — by 5.5 percent, or $17.3 million. Hodges and all the City Council members are in the midst of a re-election campaign, and, as usual, the budget won’t be finalized by the City Council until after the election in December. Calling climate change “the single greatest threat to our city and our planet,” Hodges said, “it is up to cities like ours to lead both the fight against climate change and the work to adapt to it.” She proposed spending $6 million on clean energy programs; her budget would help pay for those initiatives by raising utility franchise fees by half a percent, which would cost the typical household about 57 cents per month. Twin Cities Pioneer Press: Mayoral candidate Dai Thao won’t be charged in bribery-solicitation case After reviewing the results of a Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension investigation, the Scott County attorney’s office has declined to file criminal charges against St. Paul City Council member Dai Thao, who is also a mayoral candidate. St. Paul police had asked the BCA to investigate allegations against the council member involving a failed bribery solicitation. “The mere request for a campaign donation, without some evidence of a proposed quid pro quo, is not illegal,” states a Tuesday letter from the Scott County attorney’s office to the BCA. Reached by phone Tuesday evening, Thao said he was still preparing public comments in response to the case and had no immediate comment. Minnesota Public Radio: Dayton: Amazon bid to be ‘restrained’ Gov. Mark Dayton put some parameters Tuesday around Minnesota’s upcoming bid for the new Amazon corporate headquarters, saying the state will be “restrained” when it comes to tax and financial incentives. The Democratic governor stressed that Minnesota, with a vibrant economy and heralded labor force, has an attractive case to make for the e-commerce retailer’s second North American headquarters. But Dayton said any proposal must benefit the state more than Amazon. Plus, Dayton said, the state needs to be mindful about being unfair to existing corporations with Minnesota headquarters. Target and Best Buy are at the top of the list given that they compete directly with Amazon in the retailing space. “I think they and at least some of their 32,000 employees would look properly with askance at our taking some of their tax dollars to offer special incentives they don’t receive to lure some major competitor to their doorstep,” Dayton said.
Australian feminist Germaine Greer caused outrage Wednesday when she said rape should be viewed more as “lazy, careless and insensitive” and that the punishment should be lowered. Greer, speaking at the Hay literary festival in Britain, said the legal system wasn’t working in regards to rape and that the issue always comes down to whether a person consented, according to The Guardian. “Most rapes don’t involve any injury whatsoever,” Greer said. “We are told that it is a sexually violent crime, an expert like Quentin Tarantino will tell us that when you use the word 'rape' you’re talking about violence, a throwing them down... it is one of the most violent crimes in the world. B------- Tarantino. “Most rape is just lazy, just careless, insensitive. Every time a man rolls over on his exhausted wife and insists on enjoying his conjugal rights he is raping her. It will never end up in a court of law,” she explained. Greer said that people shouldn’t think about rapes as “spectacularly violent” crimes. “Instead of thinking of rape as a spectacularly violent crime, and some rapes are, think about it as non-consensual … that is bad sex. Sex where there is no communication, no tenderness, no mention of love.” Greer, who is set to publish her take on rape in a new book, acknowledged her take would be controversial to some feminists. “It is moments like these, I can hear the feminists screaming at me, ‘you’re trivializing rape!’” Greer said. “Well, I’ll tell you what. You might want to believe that the penis is a lethal weapon and that all women live in fear of that lethal weapon, well that’s b-------. It’s not true. We don’t live in terror of the penis. A man can’t kill you with his penis.”
Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner went to Austin Monday to convince lawmakers that he has hit upon a solution to Houston’s $8.1 billion pension problem. His answer is math — really complicated but ultimately pointless math. Last September, Turner promised a hard cap on the city’s pension liability and a fixed 30-year repayment plan. Instead, he has delivered a bill that would allow debt to continue to accrue and repayment to be put off indefinitely. The city is as exposed to bankruptcy as ever, as Turner’s plan primarily deals with what checks get written when, not with the massive debt that continues to mount. State Sen. Joan Huffman filed a bill last week containing Turner’s plan, with one addition opposed by both Turner and the Houston unions: a requirement that the city get voter approval before issuing $1 billion in pension obligation bonds. The bill cleared a Senate committee Monday on a 7-1 vote, as did a stand-alone bill by state Sen. Paul Bettencourt that would also require public approval for pension bonds. In the House, the Pensions Committee cancelled a hearing. To put the city’s pension debt into household terms, Houston has been refinancing its teaser-rate mortgage every year or two, getting further and further underwater. Turner promised an end to that with the equivalent of a fixed 30-year mortgage. He delivered, but there’s a catch: Houston can take out second mortgages, third mortgages, and so on in perpetuity, each with a new 30-year repayment period. And Turner would like to kick off this journey to solvency by putting his next house payment of $134 million on the credit card, so to speak. The upside of the plan is that Turner has won some concessions. The police and municipal employees unions are willing to trade some of their IOUs (payable by taxpayers) for cash up front at a steep discount. The firefighters union has decided to oppose the plan, but Huffman said Monday that they “will have to be brought along kicking and screaming.” The city would issue bonds to infuse the funds with $1 billion in cash, while the unions would give up $2.5 billion in promised benefits. The firefighters have an incredibly sweet deal already, no requirement to negotiate with the city, and tremendous political power with Democrats and Republicans. If Houston is going to avoid bankrupting itself, the firefighters’ grip on power will have to be loosened, so a fractured coalition here counts as a win for taxpayers, regardless of what happens to the bill. The firefighters have opposed reform at every turn, refusing even to open their books to lawmakers or city officials. Their arguments Monday amounted to “a promise is a promise” and “here are some widows.” Actually, the voters of Houston have promised the union little. The state began dictating pension terms to Houston in 1947. On the rare occasion that voters have been consulted, as they were in 2004, they declined to guarantee public pensions while supporting the idea of collective bargaining. The fire union has found it much more profitable to manipulate state lawmakers into giving them what they want than to negotiate with the city. While Turner’s bill achieves some concessions, it doesn’t deliver the promised features. “We cap the city’s exposure,” Turner told the committee. “The bill says that the parties are obligated to come back to the table and they shall adjust their benefits to stay within the corridor,” which is a separate cap limiting the city’s pension payments to 37 percent of payroll. But the cap can be punctured, if the city and the pension boards want to resume kicking the can down the road, through a new concept called a “liability loss layer.” Skipping the details of how it would be activated, the concept would allow for losses from investment underperformance to be amortized over new 30-year periods. This is important, as the unfunded liability has been created in large part by poor planning. When the pension funds pretend they’ll get 8.2 percent returns, and their actual returns last year were negative 1.5 percent, a brand-new billion-dollar liability shows up on the books. Even though the pension funds will use a 7 percent projected rate of return going forward, massive new debts will show up every year that those returns fail to materialize. Turner’s plan calls for the workers to make up some of those shortfalls through higher payroll contribution rates, but it doesn’t enforce it, and it leaves the escape valve of the “liability loss layer.” His plan shifts some exposure to retirees through mandatory cuts in cost-of-living allowances when the market does poorly. Bill King, Turner’s Republican rival in the last election, noted on his blog that the debt far outweighs the workers’ ability to cover losses through their paychecks: “Because the liability is so large relative to the payroll (total pension liability is approximately 15 times payroll), it will take large increases in employee contributions to make up even modest misses on the investment performance. The employee contribution levels in the new agreement are about 10 percent. So, a consistent 1 percent miss on the investment goal of 7 percent would eventually require the employee contribution to go to 18 percent. At contributions anywhere in that kind of range, the City will not be able to recruit or retain employees.” Turner said Monday that if he’s not able to use a pension bond to cover a $134 million pension contribution that’s due, then “a lot of people will not be working.” Of course, that’s what got Houston into its present mess: the unwillingness of its leaders to pay the pension contributions due every year. For 17 years, they’ve been financing it through debt. Houston isn’t even paying all of the interest due on its pension debt, much less paying down the principal. Turner’s plan would continue that “negative amortization” by another 8 to 10 years, by King’s estimate, before the payments began to escalate sharply. James Quintero of the Texas Public Policy Foundation summed up the strengths and shortcomings of the plan. He praised the “adjustments to the DROP program,” notorious for its million-dollar payouts, as well as the fixed 30-year schedule, and Huffman’s inclusion of a provision to allow voters to decide on the pension bonds. He pointed out that the plan lacks a 401k-like “defined contribution” plan for new hires. That’s one of the easy first steps that struggling localities elsewhere have taken, but which Turner rejects for ideological reasons. Houston should also have local control of its own money, he said, also arguing that the 7 percent discount rate was unrealistic. King and most local conservatives have also argued for a defined contribution plan. A few experts have noticed that Turner’s plan, if tweaked, could be used to impose a defined contribution plan through the back door. That is, in setting a defined maximum the city will pay each year, the city could be defining its contribution. But the liability loss layers would have to be stripped from the plan. So long as the taxpayers are responsible for covering debts worth more than everything the city owns, there is no limit to the danger. Jon Cassidy reports for the Texas Bureau of Watchdog.org Contact him at jon@watchdog.org and follow him on Twitter @jpcassidy000.
A new poll shows that most Americans agree with the National Football League’s new rule requiring players on the field to stand during the national anthem. The new SurveyMonkey poll released on May 27, shows that 54 percent of Americans overall agree with the anthem ban. Also, among those who identify as NFL fans, fully 56 percent support a ban on the protests. And “drilling down even further” an even larger 59 percent of those respondents who said they are, “big fans” of pro football said they agree with the ban. Other findings show that 55 percent overall think that it is fair to fine teams that allow protests to continue while 42 percent say it is unfair. And 57 percent say it is a fair compromise to stay in the locker room during the anthem versus 39 percent who say it is unfair. In addition, overall 41 percent of respondents said that players who take a knee during the anthem are unpatriotic while a slightly larger 42 percent said protesting during the anthem has nothing to do with patriotism. Perhaps unsurprisingly, black respondents had a far different view. Fully 63 percent said that kneeling during the anthem is unrelated to whether or not the players are patriotic. A very large 71 percent of blacks also said they felt it was unfair to fine teams for player protests. Still, 55 percent of blacks said that the policy of allowing players to stay in the locker room during the anthem is a good compromise plan. Finally, black respondents identified as “big fans” at a higher rate than whites. “More than three-quarters of Blacks (68 percent) say they are fans of the NFL, compared with 53 percent of whites and 46 percent of Hispanics. A full 44 percent of blacks identify as ‘big fans.'” the poll reported. The poll included responses from 1,795 American adults taken on May 24 and 25, several days after the NFL’s decision was released. The margin of error is plus or minus 3.0 percentage points. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.
Don’t be surprised if you see accomplished equestrian Jennifer Gates horsing around uptown. Her billionaire parents, Bill and Melinda Gates, have bought her a $5 million condo at 1212 Fifth Ave., Gimme Shelter has learned. The East Harlem deal closed in December 2017 and, we hear, is intended for 22-year-old Jennifer to use following her graduation from Stanford in June. (She studies biology, and sources say she plans on attending medical school in New York. Conveniently, Mount Sinai’s med school is just blocks away.) The purchase was made through a trust administered by Watermark Estate Management Services LLC, which Bill Gates uses for personal and family matters, according to reports. The three-bedroom condo, which is 2,389 square feet with stunning Central Park views, was last asking $5.25 million. Features include a living/dining area that faces west to the park and a master bedroom with a spa-style ensuite bathroom. The building was constructed in 1925 and designed by architects George and Edward Blum. Gut-renovated in 2012 and once home to Carmelo and La La Anthony, the building has a gym, a residents’ lounge and a children’s playroom. Earlier this month, we reported the philanthropic power couple’s purchase of a nearly $16 million, 124-acre horse farm for Jennifer in Westchester, which is fitting given her history of equestrian competition. The apartment’s sellers were David Zornow and Martha Malkin Zornow. David is global head of litigation at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, while Martha is the founding principal of Girls Prep Bronx Middle School. The listing brokers, Brown Harris Stevens’ Wendy Sarasohn, Jamie Joseph and Tania Isacoff, declined to comment. Another apartment at 1212 Fifth Ave., several floors below Jennifer’s, is currently on the market for $4.9 million. The three-bedroom measures 2,389 square feet and also boasts Central Park views. There’s an eat-in chef’s kitchen and a corner master suite with oversize windows. Other details include solid oak floors and recessed LED lighting. The listing brokers are Stribling’s Alexa Lambert, Marc Achilles and Julie Soffen.
Perry Ellis is tired of founder George Felden­kreis’ public efforts to “mischaracterize” the company’s review of his offer to take the company private. The Miami-based apparel maker said Thursday it is undergoing a “bona fide process” to review Felden­kreis’ offer of $27.50 a share. But Feldenkreis, citing “unjustifiable delays” in Perry Ellis’ review process on Wednesday, threatened to withdraw his offer if an agreement wasn’t reached by May 29.
When Miranda Lambert and Ashley Monroe asked Angaleena Presley to join their all-girls country group the Pistol Annies, the coal miner's daughter thought it was a practical joke. At the time (and still today, Presley pointed out), country radio didn't care to play female artists so why would her fellow singers want to start a band of all women. But when the three girls got together to write, there was no denying their chemistry, Presley told the Children of Song podcast. "We were at Miranda's farm writing the other day, and I was like, 'I hate you girls so much because I don't want to write with anyone else,'" Presley told the podcast. "I think we wrote eight songs in two days." Presley said the connection she shares with her fellow songwriters is a "blessing in my life." Presley joked that since they released their first record in 2012, they've gained "two ex-husbands [and] two husbands" between the three of them. And now that the trio has gotten back together to release a new record -- Presley was mum on exactly when -- there's no denying their sound is "more grown up." "You can tell that we've been through some stuff," she admitted. The traditional country artist also spoke to Children of Song about her frustration with mainstream country radio and why her latest solo album "Wrangled" was her way of telling radio she doesn't care if they play her music or not. "It's a travesty," Presley said of country radio's lack of female artists being played on their airwaves. "It's like this music's being popped in and there's no women being popped in with it." She said she "got to this place" where she "became okay" with the fact that she wouldn't get country radio airplay. "For so long artists were so afraid to say anything negative about it because everybody has this delusion of grandeur that they were going to get played at some point," she said. "But for me, I kind of just had this epiphany like, 'Man they're just not going to [play my songs]...Frankly, I just didn't care." Listen to Angaleena Presley's entire Children of Song episode. You can download or stream the podcast from the Children of Song homepage or become a subscriber on Apple Podcasts, TuneIn, Google Play or Stitcher.
The Guillotine is a gruesome instrument of Justice. It was named after Dr. Joseph-Ignace Guillotin who recommended that the French government adopt a gentler, more humane method of execution. It was used for capital punishment for more than 150 years. The last execution via the swift blade took place in 1977 just before the French outlawed capital punishment. Early on it was an especially favored instrument in meeting out Justice for traitorous political plots. Today, the term “heads will roll” originates from its use. It may take a few more months to clear away all of the remaining roadblocks and stonewalling. But, the incriminating documents will inevitably be procured. Too many people were part of the plot. Some will cop a plea. Professionals inside the FBI are now coming forward, asking to be subpoenaed so that they can testify before Congress. Motivated to clean up this mess, they want to share what they know. President Trump is now fully engaged and demanding complete transparency. Even his worst detractors would attest to his tenacity. Once Professor Halper is extradited from Oxford and is facing the possibility of life in prison for his central role in the conspiracy, he will sing like an Irish tenor. Combining his testimony with the OIG Report and the treasure trove of incriminating evidence surely contained in the 40,000 documents yet to be turned over should be enough to convict at least six of the high ranking co-conspirators. Perhaps the Sessions appointed investigator from Utah has already authorized secret electronic surveillance of key figures. If so, that information may net even bigger fish. Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper probably did himself serious damage with his earlier conflicting statements made under oath. But, his backhanded admission that yes, at least one Confidential Human Source (Spy) was hired to imbed and entrap Trump campaign operatives certainly cooked his goose. That could have happened only with his approval. His ham-fisted attempt to justify the treasonous actions by saying that Mr. Trump should be thankful because they were only trying to protect him from the rascally Russians probably won’t play well with prosecutors. His clumsy reasons for not sharing any of this with Trump and not providing similar “protections” for the Hillary campaign only add to his problems. There will be no offer to strike a deal with him. The paper trail is clear. It will make him disposable. He must know by now that his head, metaphorically, is on the block. The complicated story of the Insurance Policy referenced in text messages we now know was actually operation Crossfire Hurricane. It is all unraveling as I write. It won’t take a team of mean-spirited partisan prosecutors to prove the treasonous political motives behind it. Objective observers can see that. Just as more and more Americans now see the whole Mueller effort as little more than a stinky partisan smokescreen designed to cover the actions of his high ranking friends at DOJ and the FBI. The fog will continue to lift, it always does. The media subterfuge and excuses notwithstanding. It may be hard to prove that Mueller and his team colluded with Comey et al. But as the facts of this ugly story continue to unfold, Mueller’s work and reputation will suffer permanent damage. All of the delays, redactions and obfuscations by Rod Rosenstein make sense only if we assume that he is somehow complicit in the conspiracy. His claims of protecting the integrity of the DOJ and FBI ring absolutely hollow. He must be covering his own tracks. We will know very soon what part he played in creating the mess and how he delayed finding the facts that would lead to its resolution. Let me be clear, I am not calling for the construction of a Guillotine on the Capitol Mall. But, the Spygate scandal is real! And it represents a dangerous threat to our Republic. There has to be accountability. Heads will roll. They will definitely roll! Gil Gutknecht served six terms in both the Minnesota and the U.S. House of Representatives. He writes about healthcare and political issues of the day. He is currently working on a book about the high costs of Rx drugs.
LOS ANGELES — The estate of Michael Jackson is suing Disney, saying an ABC television special on the singer’s last days infringed on its intellectual property. The Associated Press obtained the lawsuit filed Wednesday in US court in Los Angeles against the network and parent company Disney. It alleges that last week’s special, “The Last Days of Michael Jackson,” illegally uses significant excerpts of his most valuable songs, including “Billie Jean” and “Bad,” and music videos, including “Thriller” and “Black or White.” It says the special also used clips from a documentary and feature film belonging to the estate. ABC representatives didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. But when the Jackson camp raised objections last week, the network defended it as a news show that didn’t violate the estate’s rights.
With 15 tweets in the last five days on what he’s calling the “Rigged Russia Witch Hunt,” President Trump is not just playing defense but keeping the investigation in the forefront of the news cycle. Just yesterday, for instance, the president said that Bob Mueller’s team—which he describes as “13 Angry Democrats,” plus people who worked for Barack Obama, “will be MEDDLING with the midterm elections.” Now I’m not clear exactly how these folks will be interfering with the 2018 elections, unless their mere employment in continuing the probe amounts to interference. But Mueller was, of course, hired by Trump’s Republican appointee, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Obviously, it’s not a plus for Republicans trying to keep control of the House and Senate to campaign against the backdrop of the investigation, which could produce more indictments before Election Day. But the president’s increasingly harsh criticism, while shoring up his base, has the paradoxical effect of drawing more attention to the probe itself. Every tweet (or comment) generates endless retweets, blog posts, news stories and cable segments. It’s hardly unprecedented, by the way, to go after an independent prosecutor. Bill Clinton and his allies tried to do the same thing to Ken Starr two decades ago. In addition to bashing the investigation, Trump’s tweetstorm is aimed at some of his favorite targets from 2016 and beyond. Trump says he needs to focus on North Korea, trade and other issues, “not on the Rigged Russia Witch Hunt that should be investigating Clinton/Russia/FBI/Justice/Obama/Comey/Lynch etc.” And: “Why didn’t President Obama do something about the so-called Russian Meddling when he was told about it by the FBI before the Election? Because he thought Crooked Hillary was going to win, and he didn’t want to upset the apple cart! He was in charge, not me, and did nothing.” The president has also channeled his favorite network, tweeting: “‘The President deserves some answers.’ @FoxNews in discussing ‘SPYGATE.’” Spygate, involving the FBI informant who infiltrated Trump’s campaign, is the branding he’s tried, with limited success, to get the media to adopt. And circling back to his favorite target: “The Fake Mainstream Media has, from the time I announced I was running for President, run the most highly sophisticated & dishonest Disinformation Campaign in the history of politics. No matter how well WE do, they find fault. But the forgotten men & women WON, I’m President!” That’s the first time I’ve seen Trump, for all his attacks on the media, accuse them of a disinformation campaign, which sounds far more organized than news organizations could pull off. That doesn’t mean they haven’t been overwhelmingly negative. The Washington Times said yesterday that “while much of America wasn’t looking, President Trump and Congress actually have been getting some work done together.” The story cites new rules on VA reform and experimental drugs, as well as a partial rollback of the Dodd-Frank banking law. The latter is an important deregulation step that erodes the Democrats’ main response to the 2008 financial crisis. Neutering Dodd-Frank would be a big deal in a traditional administration. But it’s not surprising that such issues have been overshadowed by the on-again/off-again Korean summit, or by Trump’s Twitter assault against Mueller and the media. The president could be laying the groundwork to blame GOP losses on a rigged system. But for now, he’s shining a white-hot spotlight on the very controversy he says is interfering with his job.
Editor's Note: The following are excerpts from R. Lee Ermey's memoir, Gunny’s Rules: How to Get Squared Away Like A Marine, published by Regnery Publishing. R. Lee “Gunny” Ermey, the Golden Globe-nominated actor best known for his unforgettable role as a drill sergeant in Stanley Kubrick’s Full Metal Jacket, died this week at the age of 74. To commemorate Ermey’s life—especially, his legendary work ethic and commitment to duty—here is the best advice from Ermey’s memoir, Gunny’s Rules: How to Get Squared Away Like A Marine. Make it a Habit “The Marines did not teach me to roll over and play dead in the tough spots. I have not always achieved my mission, but when I have come up short, it isn’t because I do not go the extra mile, do not carry my load. I’ll hump it as far as it takes to get what I want. I have done that every day of my life since I became a Marine, in large roles or meager ones, and I expect to continue doing it until I’m in a wheelchair or my trip is over.” Never Say “It’s Good Enough” “Unfortunately, for many people the ‘extra mile’ seems to be a distance they cannot make. You can spot them a mile away: the clock watchers, the early quitters, the ‘wait till tomorrow’ addicts, the ‘it’s good enough, let’s move on’ cop-out artists. They’re in every office, every organization, even units of the military, law enforcement, and elsewhere. They’re not going to lift their hands one inch beyond their job descriptions, and often not even that far. I have no respect for these misguided hangers-on.” Family Matters Need Attention “Families require “extra mile” performance as much as, if not more than, the workplace. Family cohesiveness and function depend on squared away, unwavering involvement between every member. The care, the love that cranks up families and keeps them going isn’t just mama’s job. There’s usually something happening all the time that takes extra effort. We all care about our parents and our brothers and sisters. When it takes an extra mile to help the family get up the hill, we need to make completely sure we’re not on leave or AWOL.” Take Care of “Number One” “All those chores and things you’ve been putting off doing for yourself aren’t going to stop bugging you until you call a halt and turn-to. You need to give your personal needs an extra mile at times to stay squared away. Your job and duties and the needs of others still rank high in your priorities, but you also have to look out for Number One. Sometimes that takes an extra effort, whether it’s getting in that hour-long run you need or taking care of a personal chore like shining your shoes or ironing your shirt. You’re responsible to your family and your employer, but also to yourself. “ Work the Problem! “Whatever major malfunction is tormenting you, whether it’s in your head or it’s some piece of broken machinery or technology, you must face the situation with calm, deliberate action. You will find help if you need it. You will kick the malfunction in the ass and move on. If you do not grasp the fact that you are capable of doing this, you are going to be set back time and again by life’s booby traps and plain old bad breaks. The problems—the malfunctions—should not throw your train off the tracks or wreck your missions and objectives. You might be delayed while you work on the pain-in-the-butt problem, but you’ve got to get it done and get back on schedule.”
An Illinois police department says it’s exploring ways to pursue legal action against online commentators who falsely accused it of beating up a woman after she broadcast a Facebook Live video showing her swollen face following an arrest. Andrea Morris, while in custody at the Sauk Village police department, sparked outrage on social media as she talked about a recent incident in which their officers had “tased” her. “The police tased me, I don't even know what happened after that, my whole face is f----d up, she said, while fighting back tears. “I look like a different person.” One commenter then responded to the video claiming that “Sauk Village police beat her in her sleep!" – an accusation that was shared numerous times – and one the department is denying, according to Fox 32 Chicago. Authorities say Morris was actually trespassing on the property of her ex-girlfriend, who had became fearful that she would break the windows on her home. Morris resisted arrest twice and while trying to run away, was tasered by an officer and fell face-first on a sidewalk, they added. The department’s chief, Robert Kowalski, told Fox 32 Chicago that they may make an example of those who were spreading the “beat her in her sleep” claims on social media. “We will definitely discuss this matter with my detective and run it past the states attorney’s office to see if there’s anything we can do legally against any individuals who are promoting these allegations against the police department,” he said. CAMERAS OFTEN CLEAR POLICE OFFICERS FALSELY ACCUSED OF MISCONDUCT Sauk Village police added that they took Morris to a local hospital to be evaluated and she is now facing charges of resisting arrest and trespassing. Her ex-girlfriend also told the station that she backs the police’s version of events up. Police departments around the U.S. in recent months have taken to releasing bodycam and dash cam footage to clear officers of alleged wrongdoing. The false claims against officers have ranged from sexual assault to profiling.
BERLIN, Germany: Alternative for Germany (AfD) co-leader Alexander Gauland told Breitbart London that Italy’s solution to the ongoing political crisis is to leave the euro. On Monday, Italian President Sergio Mattarella stopped the appointment of eurosceptic economist Paolo Savona, supported by the populist coalition of La Lega and the Five Star Movement (M5S) and ultimately denied the populists the opportunity to form a government earlier this week. According to Mr. Gauland, the main issue in Italy is not the overreach of the European Union, but the euro currency. “The, problem of Italy is that it is a totally different economy. They have a totally different economic culture that’s totally different from Germany and the Netherlands and Belgium and the northern countries,” he said. “You can’t have a common currency without a common economic policy, and we don’t want a common economic policy because it’s a problem of culture. The Italians, like the French, always had inflation while we in Germany have only had inflation after the First and Second World War,” he added. Gauland noted that only by ditching the euro could Italy once again become a competitive market saying: “So you have to leave the European currency, then Italy is free to lower prices, to be more competitive. ‘Italy Should Not be a German Colony’: Salvini Slams EU Demands For €10 Billion Corrective Budget https://t.co/35vJDncMT6 — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 25, 2018 “I know that before the euro was founded you went to Italy and you had to pay less than 100 lira for a twin bedroom, next year lets say you had to pay 150, but the value in German marks was the same.” “So, it’s a problem of competitiveness of the Italian economy; but with the euro, you can’t be competitive. Italy and Greece, also France has a similar problem,” he told Breitbart London. With the appointment of a pro-EU interim government under new Italian Prime Minister Carlo Cottarelli, fresh elections are expected later in the year. Some have suggested the possibility of La Lega and the Five Star Movement running as a coalition as many predict they would win in a landslide according to current polling. What Italy's political map would look like if the populist 5 Star & the hard right League agreed a formal electoral alliance Kind of puts it in perspective Source: Istituto Cattaneo pic.twitter.com/imfUB8lDfC — Matthew Goodwin (@GoodwinMJ) May 28, 2018
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Over Memorial Day weekend, NBC's Chuck Todd opened his show "Meet the Press" by angrily lecturing his viewers about a so-called Trump "tactical playbook" on how to spin the Robert Mueller probe and the FBI informant in his presidential campaign. Here's Todd's list of Trump tactics, with our commentary: 1. "Perhaps fearing that Mueller is closing in, the president is applying a well-worn tactical playbook. Number one, distract with an invented crisis that attacks the investigators without evidence to plant a seed of doubt." Let's pick at two phrases here. Many of Trump's supporters and more than a few independents would tell Todd that "distract with an invented crisis ... without evidence" is a better description of ABC, CBS and his own NBC offering about 1,500 minutes of evening-news hype about Russian "collusion" that still hasn't surfaced. Let that sink in: a full 25 hours of coverage about nothing much to date. In contrast, what is "invented" about the FBI confidential informant? You can spin about how he was really "spying on the Russians," but was The New York Times making up Stefan Halper? Instead of actually reporting on Halper and his attempts to "inform" on Trump aides, they would rather just call it a "distraction" and, therefore, somehow a lie. 2. "Brand the crisis. According to the Associated Press, Mr. Trump wants to brand the FBI's confidential informant a spy, believing the more nefarious term would resonate more in the media and with the public. The president used some version of the word 'spy' 24 times in 15 tweets over 10 days." Earth to NBC: Calling Trump's current standing a "crisis," even as his polls are actually improving, is ... branding. Is Todd saying NBC would never dream of using "nefarious" terms that "resonate ... with the public"? Here's Todd lead off in his May 22 MSNBC show: "Fatal distraction! Are the president's systemic attacks on the Justice Department undermining the rule of law as we know it?" "Fatal"? Who died, Chuck? It sounds like he's writing Democrat direct-mail copy for his wife's company, Maverick Mail & Strategies. The media also use branding in a positive way. For example, immigrants who live in the country illegally and arrived to America as minors are typically framed as "Dreamers," and with no "so-called" warning necessary. 3. "If accused of wrongdoing, use the 'I'm rubber, you're glue' defense, pinning anything you're accused of on your opponents." This is especially obnoxious coming from journalists whose first rebuttal is often "You can't call us biased! You are biased!" We wonder if Todd slept through the Clinton years. When the then-President Bill Clinton's 1996 re-election campaign took donations from Chinese communists and Indonesian businessmen, "everybody does it" became the dominant media spin. 4. "If still caught with irrefutable facts closing in, assert that all facts are relative anyway." President Trump's lawyer Rudy Giuliani is worried about Trump walking into a perjury trap. He told the Washington Post "truth is relative" and the Mueller team "may have a different version of the truth." At least those are the quotes the Post used. When the irrefutable facts of Clinton's lying about having a sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky were closing in, it was NBC's Matt Lauer who enabled Hillary Clinton to distract the country with warnings of "a vast right-wing conspiracy." Lauer even suggested this Lewinsky scandal could be "the worst and most damaging smear of the 20th century." The liberal media have no right to lecture about "distractions" and "branding" and treating facts as relative. These are all well-worn moves in their own "tactical playbook."
General Electric is reportedly planning to end all energy equipment sales to Iran and close its Tehran office due to pressure stemming from U.S. sanctions imposed on the Islamic regime. The Wall Street Journal writes: GE’s foreign subsidiaries were preparing up to $150 million in bids for pipelines, compressors and subsea equipment in Iran and had been in talks with an Iranian manufacturer to make energy equipment, the people said. The company has all but abandoned those plans, the people said, since President Donald Trump announced on May 8 that the U.S. would pull out of the nuclear deal and impose strong new sanctions against Iran and companies doing business there. “We are adapting our activities in Iran as necessary to conform with recent changes in U.S. law,” said a spokesperson for the conglomerate, adding, “GE’s activities in Iran to date have been limited and in compliance with U.S. government rules, licenses and policies.” On Wednesday, the U.S. Treasury placed several Iranian state groups on its sanctions blacklist, accusing them of serious human rights abuses and censorship. In the latest of a series of actions meant to increase pressure on the Tehran regime, the Treasury Department named the semi-official paramilitary group Ansar-e-Hezbollah and three of its leaders to its sanctions list. The goal is to lock those who are blacklisted out of the global financial and commercial system. Ansar-e-Hezbollah is “an organization supported by the Iranian regime that harasses and attacks the Iranian people,” the Treasury said, citing its alleged role in acid attacks against women seen as improperly dressed in Isfahan, and other violent attacks on student protestors. The Treasury also sanctioned Tehran’s Evin Prison, used to house political prisoners, saying people held there are subject to sexual assaults, physical assaults, and electric shock. “Treasury is taking action to hold the Iranian regime accountable for ongoing human rights abuses, censorship, and other despicable acts it commits against its own citizens,” said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in a statement. Wednesday’s announcement added to a series of moves to increase political and economic pressure on Tehran after President Donald Trump’s May 8 decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear accord. Agence France-Presse contributed to this report.
On Tuesday, Ukrainian authorities announced that Russian journalist and prominent Kremlin critic Arkady Babchenko had been shot and killed in his apartment building in the Ukrainian capital of Kiev. However, in a stunning spectacle less than 24 hours later, Babchenko appeared in person at a press conference about his murder at the headquarters of the Ukrainian Security Service (SBU) to prove that he was, in fact, alive and well. At the televised conference, SBU head Vasyl Hrytsak told press that Ukrainian police and other government officials had staged Babchenko’s assassination and disseminated fabricated information about the fake event to journalists all over the world as part of an elaborate sting operation to stop a real plot to kill Babchenko. According to Hrytsak, Ukrainian intelligence launched the operation after learning that Russian security services had paid a former pro-Russian separatist fighter $40,000 to plan Babchenko’s killing. The former fighter, who is a Ukrainian citizen, has been arrested by Ukrainian police in connection with the assassination plot after reportedly offering to pay a counterterrorist specialist $30,000 to carry it out. According to the Russian language outlet Meduza, Hrytsak also levied far more serious accusations against the Russian government at the press conference. Namely, Hrytsak told reporters that the Kremlin intended to use Babchenko’s assassination as a test run for a larger operation to murder an additional 30 targets in Ukraine and that the arrested murder conspirator was planning to purchase 300 Kalashnikov assault rifles and several hundred kilograms of explosives for that purpose. After Hrytsak’s announcement about the SBU’s successful operation to save Babchenko, the journalist walked up to the podium to address a televised audience. In addition to apologizing to his family and friends for helping to fake his own death, Babchenko expressed gratitude to Ukrainian authorities for saving his life [transcript from Radio Free Europe]: "First, I’d like to apologize for everything you’ve had to go through. I’ve been at the funeral of many friends and colleagues, and I know this nauseous feeling. Sorry for imposing this upon you, but there was no other way. "Special apologies to my wife for the hell she’s been through these two days. Olya, excuse me, please, but there was no other option. "I’d also like to thank the Ukrainian Security Service for saving my life. […] "Over this month, I’ve seen the guys work hard like bulls. We’ve been in constant contact and planned our actions. The result was this special operation that ended up in arresting the guy. He is in custody. Or has been detained. I don’t know the details. "The crime is a proven fact. All the evidence is there and, most importantly, apart from saving my life, for which I’m very thankful, bigger and more serious terrorist attacks have been prevented. These terrorist attacks were prepared thoroughly. "A week or two ago, Russia announced that [Islamic State] were preparing terrorist attacks before the Champions League [final in Kyiv]. I think it was going to be my [assassination]. The Ukrainian government’s campaign to fake Babchenko’s death was quite extensive and dominated media coverage in Europe yesterday after the announcement of the journalist’s murder. Ukrainian police in Kiev even fabricated a police sketch of Babchenko’s assassin and distributed it to the press to bolster their story. Consequently, the journalist’s reported murder drew swift condemnation from across the world, including important political bodies like the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and journalist advocacy groups such as the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) and Reporters without Borders (RSF). However, in the wake of the revelation that Babchenko’s death was staged, RSF Secretary General Christophe Deloire took to Twitter to express outrage at Ukraine’s use of deception to manipulate the media into spreading fake news: RSF expresses its deepest indignation after discovering the manipulation of the Ukrainian secret services, this new step of a war of information. It is always very dangerous for a government to play with the facts, especially using journalists for their fake stories. https://t.co/XwwbepYsjc — Christophe Deloire (@chrisdeloire) May 30, 2018 For their part, CPJ released a more tempered statement demanding an in-depth explanation for why the Ukrainian government lied to the press:
Kendall Jenner is dating Philadelphia 76er Ben Simmons, multiple sources tell Page Six exclusively. An insider familiar with the duo said the romance has been going on “for a few weeks.” Another source told us the pair was spotted this week on a lunch date at the Beverly Hills Hotel. And a third source said that Jenner, 22, and Simmons, 21, were seen last week in Manhattan with a group of friends at the clubby Bowery restaurant Vandal. “Security measures seemed to have been taken to ensure Kendall and Ben enjoyed their night hassle free,” said a witness. “They were smiling the night away with their friends.” Supermodel and reality star Jenner is rebounding from another NBA star — former LA Clippers player Blake Griffin, who was traded to the Detroit Pistons. The pair was seen avoiding each other last month at music festival Coachella. Jenner spent Memorial Day weekend taking sexy bikini pictures with her sister Kourtney Kardashian, but then met on Tuesday with the 6-foot-10 point guard Simmons. On Monday, Simmons was seen arriving at LAX, and told TMZ he’d be up for playing with LeBron James amid rumors that King James could leave the Cavaliers after this season and move to Philly to join its burgeoning team of talented young stars. When asked if he could play with James, Rookie of the Year candidate Simmons said, “There’s only one way to find out.” Simmons was previously linked to singer Tinashe after a flirty interaction on social media. Jenner, meanwhile, keeps her romances very private. She allegedly also dated ASAP Rocky, and she addressed speculation in a recent Vogue article by saying, “I don’t think I have a bisexual or gay bone in my body, but I don’t know! Who knows?! I’m all down for experience — not against it whatsoever — but I’ve never been there before.” Reps did not immediately get back to us to comment. Related Video 1:51 Kendall Jenner’s Fritos addiction is just one of her most WTF moments
General Michael Hayden, former Director of the NSA & CIA and author of the new book "The Assault on Intelligence: American National Security in an Age of Lies", joined Fox News Radio's Guy Benson & Marie Harf to talk about a variety of topics including North Korea, Trump's Presidency & Gina Haspel's confirmation. On North Korea: The good news is we have not seen much Presidential taunting in the last 4 months or so...so that's good. I am trying to be hopeful. (1:00) On President Trump negotiating with Kim: This is one moment where I don't think zero sum is going to work. He (Trump) is going to have to look for a win here. (1:50) On his biggest fear out of a Trump/Kim Meeting: If the President goes in there more worried about the Trump brand and the art of the deal rather than the art of the possible this could end up in a bad place. (4:00) On an Erosion of Trust: Our community (the intel Tribe) needs to be more transparent with the American people about what it is that they do. It will shave points of our effectiveness, but we are going to need to do that otherwise we will not have the validation of the American people. (8:15) On Gina Haspel's confirmation process/enhanced interrogations: Gina did very well during the hearings. She was very careful with her words. I get the moral argument, but I think its unfair for people 15 years later looking back trying to impute some sense of moral guilt on people who acted in good faith doing what we believed the will of the American people. (10:03) Watch Below:
When a homeless man walked into a Louisiana Buffalo Wild Wings, he was only hoping to purchase a decent meal. But while he waited for his order to be prepared, a few of the restaurant’s employees decided to make jokes at his expense. One employee wrote a vulgar note on the man’s receipt, never intending for him to actually see it. “For Homeless F***! Let sit and get gross,” the server wrote on the take out order. “I love you,” another person wrote underneath the message. When the man saw the note, he was incredibly hurt. But rather than leaving without saying a word, he decided to show other customers what the employees had written. TRENDING: Mother Cries Tears of Joy After Daughter Who Went Missing 24 Years Ago is Found Buffalo Wild Wings is giving a customer free wings for a year, a gift card, and donating a "couple hundred wings" to a local homeless shelter after a derogatory remark was found on a customer's receipt. >> https://t.co/J2nAquU1mc pic.twitter.com/QYastyj2ns — WAFB (@WAFB) May 29, 2018 Customer Kailynn Weston, 26, was so disgusted by the note she immediately spoke up for the man. “I was just really upset about it, like why would you do that, especially, and he said, ‘You all know that I’m homeless, I don’t have anywhere to live,’ and it just really upset me,” she said. “And I was like, ‘That’s not okay, one, for someone to treat a customer like that, let alone a customer in his condition.'” Weston went directly to management and demanded the employees involved be disciplined for their actions. “I walked up to the manager and I said, ‘This isn’t right and I demand that she get fired or something happen because I won’t come here anymore, for sure, and I’ll let other people know not to come here anymore, because it’s not okay,'” she explained. “My mom, she always taught me to treat people the way you want to be treated. And it’s not so much, I wouldn’t want that to happen to me. I teach my children that you treat people how you want to be treated,” she said. “And to know that someone was there and that mean to someone for no reason. It hurt my feelings. I didn’t like it. I thought it was horrible.” Management immediately responded in agreement. The employees have since been fired, and the company is working to right the situation. “It’s embarrassing for this gentleman and it’s very inhumane on the part of the employees,” Regional Manager Ray Rhodes said. “It’s not our culture and it’s not who we are.” RELATED: Grandfather Helps Grandson with Marriage Proposal by Plowing Note into Field Thanks to management’s positive response, Weston will continue to be a customer and the homeless man has been shown the compassion he deserves. The restaurant location offered the homeless man a year of free wings, a hotel room, and a Walmart gift card to help him purchase new clothes. The chain also decided to donate over 800 wings to a local homeless outreach center. “In 7 years that I’ve been doing this we have never given out Wings. I think this is their new favorite!!” Kelli Tidwell Stawecki of Water’s Edge Gathering Church posted on Facebook. “…they said thank you for taking swift action and assuring that they will all be treated with respect. After all they are people too!” she continued. “I spoke at links with the fellow this happened to & he was very thankful that everyone is being so nice to him & all is forgiven. It was a good day!! When hate is loud, love can not be silent!!” Submit your story here, and subscribe to our best uplifting stories here. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Wednesday on Fox Sports 1’s “Speak for Yourself,” co-host Jason Whitlock said it was smart of the NFL to credit President Donald Trump for their new National Anthem policy that now requires players to either stand for the anthem or remain in the locker room. Whitlock said the protests were “overtaking” the sport and something needed to be done about the policy that was previously in place, adding Trump would gladly be “the bad guy” for pressuring the league by speaking out against the protests. “I think it’s a smart move by the NFL to point the blame, make Trump the scapegoat,” Whitlock stated. Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrent
1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals. 1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths.
Consumer Reports on Wednesday did an about-face on its harsh review of the Tesla Model 3, saying it now recommends the mass-market sedan after a software update shortened its braking distance by nearly 20 feet. The magazine last week had refused to recommend the hotly anticipated electric car, citing a 152-foot braking distance from 60 mph. That was “far worse than any contemporary car we’ve tested” — about 7 feet more than a full-size Ford F-150 pickup, the magazine said. In response, Tesla CEO Elon Musk last week said he would address the problem with a software update in a few days and improve the Model 3 until it “has better braking than any remotely comparable car.” After downloading Tesla’s update, Consumer Reports said that its test sedan stopped in 133 feet, a 19-foot improvement. News of the Model 3 getting Consumer Reports’ recommendation Wednesday recently sent Tesla shares up 3.3 percent to $293.15. In a post on its website, Consumer Reports’ director of auto testing, Jake Fisher, said that in his 19 years at the company, he has never “seen a car that could improve its track performance with an over-the-air update.” The Model 3, which starts at $35,000, is seen as crucial to Tesla’s profitability at a time when it is battling reports of crashes involving its Autopilot software, questions over funding and production shortfalls. Musk has said the fully loaded Model 3, excluding its controversial Autopilot feature, will retail at $78,000. Musk tweeted his appreciation to Consumer Reports following the updated review. “Really appreciate the high quality critical feedback from @ConsumerReports,” he wrote.
Scientists are seeking “the organizer” — the embryonic process that sifts and shapes the development of new cells, ultimately shaping them into fully-formed humans. It’s been a difficult process. While such a control process was discovered in amphibians almost a century ago, the human equivalent has remained elusive. But, according to a research paper published in the science journal Nature, scientists have for the first time identified a human “organizer” by contrasting the behavior of human stem cells in the embryos of chickens and other animals. Dubbed “chimeras” — after the mythical half-human, half-animal monsters — these embryos end up containing two sets of DNA. The researchers say they introduced human stem cells into chicken embryos and observed the human cells beginning to assemble what was identified as the precursor to a spine. It described the chicken cells as obeying new instructions to turn into nervous-system tissue. “This fulfills the most stringent functional criteria for an organizer, and its discovery represents a milestone in human embryology,” the study reads. The fact the human “organizer” was able to operate within the chicken embryo suggests the process emerged early in the evolutionary process “Our ability to generate a human organizer closes the loop that was initiated by classical experimental embryologists working on amphibian systems nearly 100 years ago, and demonstrates that the concept of the organizer is evolutionarily conserved from frogs to humans,” the study reads. “Our chick experiments … may be generally applicable to test and explore other aspects of early human development.” Similar experiments have been happening in pigs and sheep embryos for the past two years. The purpose was to investigate the potential for growing human organs in these animals for later harvest and use in human transplants. But this experiment ultimately aims at understanding how errors in our cell replication system can produce birth defects.
Asian-Americans are among the most successful groups in the United States, but we often forget the discrimination they faced in getting where they are, as well as the challenges they still endure. No immigrant group faced as great a barrier to entry into the United States as Asians did. Chinese laborers began arriving in the mid-19th century to fill jobs, largely in the West, building railroads, mining and planting and picking crops. By the 1880s, however, animus against them was so high that Congress passed the first legislation restricting immigration. The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 barred entry of Chinese laborers for 10 years (which was later extended and made permanent in 1902) and made Chinese immigrants ineligible for U.S. citizenship, a prohibition that remained in effect until 1943. In 1917, Congress passed other restrictions on immigration from the so-called Asiatic Barred Zone, which included the Far East, the Philippines (at the time a U.S. territory) and other Pacific islands. Not until the 1960s did Congress lift all the racial restrictions on immigration (1965) and prohibit national origin discrimination in employment (1964). Yet despite this discrimination, Asians thrived. They now earn income above the national average of whites and exceed whites in education levels -- but race still affects their entry into America's elite. My Center for Equal Opportunity this week published a study looking at Asian acceptance rates at three elite universities: Harvard University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the California Institute of Technology. The study's author, Dr. Althea Nagai, looked at acceptance rates at the three schools and found that the two that use race and ethnicity as factors in admission, Harvard and MIT, appear to cap Asian acceptance rates, much as rates of acceptance for Jews were limited by elite schools in early eras. As Nagai writes, "a 'big name' college degree, say from Harvard or Princeton, signals that one has been 'approved' to enter the American elite. Such degree signaling does not guarantee entry, but it is definitely a big help." But policies at elite schools that use race or ethnicity as a factor in admissions to increase diversity by giving preference to certain minorities -- mostly blacks and Hispanics -- work to the disadvantage of Asian students, who are already "overrepresented" compared with their proportion of the population. Thus, Asian-Americans, who are only 5.6 percent of the U.S. population, make up much larger shares of the students admitted to elite colleges. But despite their numbers, racial discrimination may still be holding Asian-Americans back. Affirmative action has always been sold on the proposition that it is meant to raise the floor for minorities who have faced discrimination and, in some instances, still do. There is no question that the pervasive, state-sponsored discrimination against blacks has had a lasting legacy. Discrimination against Hispanics was never as systemic as that against blacks, but many Hispanics, especially new immigrants and their children, still encounter obstacles to social, economic and educational achievement. But so, traditionally, have Asian-Americans -- and unlike the case with blacks and Hispanics, their race appears to be a factor in explaining why they are currently not admitted to elite universities commensurate with their academic achievements. Nagai shows that at both Harvard and MIT, Asian admissions seem to have hit a ceiling over the past 20 years or even declined. At MIT, Asian admissions peaked in 1995 at 29 percent and have declined slightly since, to 26 percent in 2016. At Harvard, admissions for Asians hit a high of 21 percent in 1993, dropped and have remained nearly constant at 17 percent since then. A suit against Harvard by Asian students alleging racial discrimination is set to be argued later this year. By contrast, Nagai's analysis shows that Caltech -- which does not use race as a factor in admissions -- has seen a steady increase in the number of Asians admitted over the past two decades. In 2016, 43 percent of students admitted to Caltech were Asians, but more importantly, the trend line since the late 1990s has been going up almost every year. Caltech has not applied a ceiling to Asian admissions, which is why it has more than twice the percentage of such students as Harvard and 65 percent more than MIT. (As an interesting aside, Caltech manages to admit a large percentage of Hispanic students, 12 percent, even without using race or ethnicity as a plus factor.) Isn't it time we quit pretending that using race in college admissions is morally acceptable because it helps some minorities? Asians have suffered enough discrimination over the years; they shouldn't face it now in the name of improving diversity. Linda Chavez is chair of the Center for Equal Opportunity and a senior fellow at the Niskanen Center. To find out more about Linda Chavez, visit the Creators Syndicate webpage at www.creators.com. COPYRIGHT 2018 CREATORS.COM
A 16-year-old Ackerman, Mississippi, resident used a deer rifle to shoot and kill a home invader Tuesday. The Associated Press reports that Choctaw County Chief Deputy Lee Upchurch identified the deceased individual (pictured) as Jerry Lee Robinson. He said Robinson tried to make entry into the home while holding a hatchet and then “made an aggressive move” toward the 16-year-old. The Miami Herald reports that the teen then fired one shot at Robinson with .270 rifle. Officers arrived on scene to find Robinson unresponsive. Robinson, the uncle of the 16-year-old who shot him, had allegedly threatened the family two weeks before. The boy’s mother told WCBI, “I have some videos where he came into my yard with two machetes, threatening my husband, and everything.” The mother added, “Yeah, my son defended himself; it could have been the other way around. It could have been my son, the one I’m picking up and having to bury, but it wasn’t.” AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.
President Donald Trump just keeps on keeping his promises. The president has signed three key executive orders revamping the way the entire civil service system works in the federal government … the very essence of the swamp. No longer will taxpayers have to fund labor union activities by federal employees. Almost 500 Veterans Affairs employees, for example, work full time on union activities instead of helping veterans. That includes 74 full-time nurses. Taxpayers currently have to pay union negotiators whenever a new contract or new amendments are being negotiated with the government. Total cost: $16 million. No more. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Thanks to Trump, all labor contract will be published and available for the public to view. And most importantly, the standards for dismissing, removing or demoting public employees are going to be changed to make these procedures easier. It now takes between six months and a year to remove a tenured federal employee for poor performance and an additional eight months to handle appeals. That makes tenured federal employees forty-four times less likely to get laid off than workers in the private sector. Under this flawed system, federal employees have stayed on the job after they have been caught stealing agency property or running personal businesses from work, and even after they have been arrested for using drugs during lunch breaks. Do you think President Trump has kept his promise to drain the swamp? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. These people need to go. But there is one more step Trump must take: banning IRS labor unions. We do not permit employees of the FBI, CIA, NSA or other such agencies to form or join unions. IRS employees, however, belong to the all-powerful Treasury Employees Union, whose contract grants them a substantial role in the management of this all-powerful agency. The IRS scandals of the previous administration testify to the way the IRS union helps to seed the civil service system with liberals and leftists who want to use its powers to level class inequalities and vindicate ideological agendas. There should be no unions in the IRS, just like there are none in the military or national security sectors. RELATED: The Mojo of Trumponomics Trump should ask Congress to add the IRS to the existing bans on unionization in these parts of the government. Dick Morris is a former adviser to President Bill Clinton as well as a political author, pollster and consultant. His most recent book, “Rogue Spooks,” was written with his wife, Eileen McGann. The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by the owners of this website. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
No wonder Paul Ryan decided to bail. Here he is in his final stretch as House speaker, hoping to go out in a spirit of unity, and the press is filled with stories about whether his party will dump him prematurely. Managing the Republican caucus increasingly looks like Mission Impossible. It was the constant in-fighting between warring factions that prompted John Boehner to quit in 2015, and Ryan was drafted despite the fact that he didn't really want the job. Two and a half years later, he announced that he'd had enough. And the Wisconsin congressman is still getting grief. The Washington Post says Ryan "is losing his grip on the feuding House Republican conference just months before pivotal midterm elections, caught between dueling factions vying for power inside the party and facing scattered calls for his departure ahead of a planned year-end retirement." The New York Times says that "with Republicans in revolt on both his right and his left, Mr. Ryan is increasingly facing questions about whether he can manage to stumble across the finish line." And Politico says Ryan is embattled "as his Republican Conference spirals into an all-out war that could put his speakership on the line." Doesn't sound like a whole lotta fun. The first flashing neon light came when House Republicans couldn't even pass a farm bill, which ought to be a piece of cake. The legislation was derailed by a battle over immigration. And immigration reared its head when a group of Republican moderates signed a discharge petition to force a floor vote on DACA and related border matters. They don't have the votes yet, but are acting in open defiance of the speaker, who once favored an immigration compromise but has no interest in a bloody battle in a midterm election year. House conservatives want Ryan to pressure the moderates into backing down. Ryan's backing seemed to be eroding when the Weekly Standard reported that White House budget chief Mick Mulvaney said he'd privately talked to Kevin McCarthy about orchestrating a leadership vote to force Democrats in dicey districts to support Nancy Pelosi. Mulvaney quickly backed away from the idea. McCarthy, as House majority leader, is Ryan's presumed successor but has made no move to try to take over this year. There was grumbling after Ryan's retirement announcement in April that the GOP couldn't go eight months with a lame-duck speaker and with Democrats a credible threat to take over the House. Ryan, who's had his difficulties with President Trump, has had a frustrating tenure, with the big tax cut bill his only major accomplishment. He and the Republicans fell short on immigration and repealing ObamaCare, among other things. And the cupboard is pretty bare, as everyone knows Congress doesn't get much done in the second half of an election year. As the Post says from talking to Hill sources, "there is not a viable alternative to Ryan who can win enough support within the GOP for a clean transition before November — and there is little stomach at the moment for the messy battle that would ensue when Ryan departs." So for all the negative stories, the great likelihood is that Ryan, who says he's not going anywhere, probably can't be forced out. But given the heartburn level right now, he probably can't wait to get back to his home town of Janesville.
Hip fashion brand Opening Ceremony laid off 23 employees last week, telling Page Six the cuts, which included four designers, were part of restructuring. The rest of the pink slips went to corporate staffers “in order to focus operations on core business objectives,” a rep said. The brand was founded by Carol Lim and Humberto Leon in 2002, but has been partly owned by private equity firm Berkshire Partners since 2014. WWD reported this year that Opening Ceremony was seeking a new investor, and the Business of Fashion reported that with the latest layoffs, half the company’s corporate staff has been cut in 2018. One insider, angry with the way the cuts went down, told us that staff had “no warning” and “were told to leave immediately and not to expect any salary beyond the end of the pay period . . . in stark contrast to the ‘we’re all family’ company culture.” A rep said the brand “fully complied with all applicable legal requirements.” Lim said in a statement: “We have made a decision to streamline some of our departments to maximize efficiency and better align our cost base with our growth plan . . . Change always accompanies growth, and our goals are ambitious. We greatly appreciate our team.” Lim and Leon also oversee LVMH label Kenzo.
Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam’s broadband plan would emphasize grants and incentives for private providers, as well as allow electric cooperatives to build networks, over allowing taxpayer-supported municipal networks to expand. The Tennessee Broadband Accessibility Act, proposed legislation in the 2017 session, would offer $45 million in tax credits over three years to help telecom providers expand more broadband into rural areas. That includes $30 million in grants and $15 million in credits for the purchase of equipment needed to build and expand networks. Haslam’s plan also includes a deregulation element of allowing the state’s private, nonprofit electric cooperatives to begin offering broadband services. A fact sheet on his proposal notes that cooperatives are “uniquely situated to assist in bridging the broadband accessibility gap with experience serving areas with lower population densities and providing universal service throughout their territories.” The governor’s proposal wouldn’t allow cooperatives to use their electric system assets to subsidize broadband services. “While there is no one solution that can guarantee broadband accessibility to every single Tennessean, this legislation provides a reasonable, responsible path to improve access in a meaningful way through investment, deregulation and education,” Haslam stated in a press release. Haslam’s plan follows a tumultuous year for broadband in Tennessee. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit agreed with the attorneys general of North Carolina and Tennessee that the Federal Communications Commission couldn’t supersede state laws blocking municipal broadband networks from expanding outside city borders. Legislation that would have changed state law to allow utilities like Chattanooga’s Electric Power Board to grow their broadband reach died in the Legislature as lawmakers waited for the appeals court ruling. Lawmakers who have pushed expanded government broadband, such as state Sen. Janice Bowling, R-Tullahoma, vowed to try again in 2017. Haslam’s broadband plan puts forth an alternative option. RELATED: Inconceivable! State senator touts ‘free market’ government internet The Department of Economic and Community Development commissioned a study early last year to assess the state of broadband in Tennessee, asking residents to complete a survey. The department found that about one-third of rural residents don’t have access to download speeds of at least 25 megabits per second, the FCC’s current broadband standard. The report estimated it would cost between $1.17 billion and $1.72 billion to provide all Tennessee homes with broadband, though the study also discovered that most residents choose to subscribe to slower speeds to save money. RELATED: Tennessee finds most residents can access broadband, but don’t use it The Tennessee Broadband Accessibility Act would also allow municipal broadband networks to partner with cooperatives as an alternative way to grow the high-speed internet reach of taxpayer-supported networks without allowing them to expand. Amanda Martin, special projects manager for the DECD, told The Tennessean that cities could sell broadband at the wholesale level to cooperatives, who could then offer broadband at the retail level to their customers. “It basically allows for expansion without the additional risk to the taxpayer,” she said. Haslam’s plan also includes grant funding for local libraries to help residents improve digital literacy skills, although the proposed amount of funding for this educational component of his plan hasn’t been announced. The Tennessee Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations also released a report on deploying broadband across the state, following a two-year study requested by Senate Majority Leader Mark Norris, who chairs that panel. Lawmakers will likely use the report as a broadband legislative roadmap, and Norris will carry Haslam’s bill in the Senate. Haslam will likely touch on his broadband plan in his State of the State address on Monday night.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The past few weeks have been historic ones for the Trump Administration. President Donald Trump finally showed the moral courage to do what three previous presidents would not or could not: relocate the U.S. Embassy in Israel to its rightful place in Jerusalem. Undoubtedly, it was not only the correct move to make but also one that finally righted a historic wrong. Since Congress passed the Jerusalem Embassy Relocation Act in 1995, Presidents Clinton, Bush and Obama all exercised a national security waiver to delay moving America's diplomatic home in Israel to the historic and modern-day capital city of the Jewish state. This is just one of several foreign policy accomplishments for which President Trump deserves recognition. Just days before the embassy transition, the President announced America's withdrawal from the woeful Iran nuclear deal. While President Obama and his then Secretary of State John Kerry bent over backwards to weaken the U.S. by acquiescing to the bullying demands of Tehran, President Trump put his foot down. He put the world on notice that America will not permit the terror-sponsoring and radical Islamist rulers in Iran to plow forward with developing the most destructive weapons known to man. It is amazing what a healthy dose of resolve, common sense and bold decision making can do. The French energy company, Total, one of the first large corporations to rush into the arms of the mullahs and do business with the regime, has now announced that it will wind down its operations there. President Trump's announcement forced a hard choice for Total: do business with America or do business with Iran. After all, who in their right mind would forego access to the U.S., the world's leading economy, in favor of seeking short-term profits in Iran? We should expect a number of other companies and countries to follow suit. What this clearly shows is that when America leads and does the right thing, others will soon fall into line. Meanwhile, the Administration is still facing criticism on the domestic front for comments made by a White House staffer who reportedly made a crass joke about Senator John McCain, who is currently in declining health because of a malignant brain tumor. It bears stating that jokes, comments or discussions, sensitive or otherwise, that are part of internal White House discussions should not become fodder for the media. Leaking is wrong, and it is un-American. It is a cowardly way for people who are supposed to be serving their country to knife each other in the back, to settle scores and to sow discord. It does not serve the greater good, and instead, only serves to distract from the real issues and important matters that should have the full attention of the White House Leaking is certainly not a new phenomenon; the Obama Administration faced the same scourge and was aggressive in its efforts to stop the practice, which actually reached new heights under his watch. In an increasingly polarized political climate, leaking only makes things worse. When men or women choose to serve in the Administration they can and should express their opinions, but they should also have to understand that once a decision has been reached, it is their duty to move forward and accept it rather than seek to use gutter tactics to advance their position or to maneuver against colleagues No, the private comments by White House staffer Kelly Sadler should never have become a public matter. But now that they have, they should be addressed, and they should be condemned Senator John McCain is a man who has dedicated his life to the service of his country. Like generations of his family before him, he served with distinction and honor in the Navy. He displayed heroism throughout an ordeal that would have totally destroyed most men: being captured, imprisoned and brutally tortured for years in Vietnam. In the decades since, he has selflessly continued to dedicate himself by representing the citizens of Arizona and tirelessly advocating for the men and women of the military and for doing what he felt was right to advance this country. During his campaign for president, he showed real integrity when he took the microphone at a town hall meeting and forcefully rebutted an inaccurate claim by a woman who said she was "scared" of his opponent, then Senator Barack Obama, because he was an "Arab." While his own supporters in attendance booed, he said, "No, ma'am...he's a decent family man, citizen, that I just happen to have disagreements with on fundamental issues, and that's what this campaign is all about." When he was ultimately defeated in his run for the presidency, he was both gracious and dignified. Whatever political disagreements Ms. Sadler may have with McCain over past votes do not warrant her heartless remarks. While she may not like that McCain has announced his intention to oppose the Trump Administration's nominee for CIA Director, Gina Haspel, there is never a justification for callous and saying that it doesn't matter what he thinks since he will soon be dead. Her statements are her own, but they reflect poorly on the White House, where she works. The White House should distance itself from Sadler, hold her responsible, and issue a formal apology to Senator McCain.
During the election season, I speculated Trump was a big government Republican, and he confirmed my analysis this past February when he acquiesced to an orgy of new spending and agreed to bust the spending caps. That awful spending spree gave huge increases to almost every part of the budget, and I pointed out that the deal probably will create the conditions for future tax hikes. I got so upset at profligate GOPers that I crunched the numbers and revealed that (with the notable exception of Reagan) Republican presidents are even bigger spenders than Democrats. Well, Senate Republicans recently had a chance to atone for their sins by voting for a proposal from Rand Paul to balance the budget. So what did they do? Rejected it, of course. In a column for Reason, Eric Boehm justly condemns Republicans for being big spenders. The Senate on Thursday resoundingly rejected the Kentucky Republican’s plan to balance the federal budget by 2023, voting 76 to 21 against a bill that would have required a $400 billion cut in federal spending next year, followed by 1 percent spending increases for the rest of the next decade. …Paul’s proposal never really had a chance of passing, coming as it did just months after Congress approved enormous spending hikes that busted Obama-era caps once championed by Republicans as necessary for fiscal restraint. …Paul’s plan would have balanced the budget by 2023, as long as revenue met current CBO projections. By 2028, his proposal envisioned a $700 billion surplus instead of the $1.5 trillion deficit currently projected by the CBO. A Lifezette column by Brendan Kirby was even more critical of big-government Republicans. Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) was hoping his Republican colleagues would be embarrassed by their vote to jack up federal spending earlier this year and support his plan to phase in a balanced budget. Few were. Paul got 20 other Republican senators on Thursday — less than half of the Senate GOP caucus — to vote for his “penny plan,” which would balance the federal budget over five years… No Democrats back the proposal. …Even though Paul’s bid failed, it did pick up the support of some senators who voted for the spending bill in February, including Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas). The others were Sens. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.) and Jerry Moran (R-Kan.). …Paul also got more votes than he did for a similar proposal last year. Kirby’s article ended on an upbeat note based on voting patterns. I also want to close on an upbeat note, but for an entirely different reason. Here are the annual numbers from the CBO baseline (what will happen to spending and revenue if government continues on its current path) and the numbers for Senator Paul’s proposal. And why do these depressing numbers leave me with a feeling of optimism? For the simple reason that they show how simple it is to make progress with some modest spending restraint. The lower set of number show that Senator Paul quickly gets to a balanced budget by imposing an overall reduction of about 2 percent on spending in 2019, followed by annual increases of about 1 percent until 2025. I think that’s a great plan, but I’d also be happy with a plan that allows spending to grow by 1 percent each year. Or even 2 percent each year. My bottom line is that we need some sort of spending cap so that the burden of government spending grows slower than the productive sector of the economy. In other words, comply with the Golden Rule. And what’s especially remarkable is that solving our fiscal problems is still quite feasible notwithstanding the reckless spending bill that was recently approved (Paul’s proposal, incidentally, leaves in place the small – and temporary – tax cut from the recent reform legislation). P.S. Senator Paul would achieve a balanced budget in just five years by letting spending grow during that period by a bit less than 4/10ths of 1 percent per year. Does that sound impossibly radical? Well, it’s what Republicans managed to achieve during the heyday of the Tea Party revolution, when they actually produced a five-year nominal spending freeze. In other words, zero spending growth! If they could impose that level of discipline with Obama in the White House, why not do the same with Trump (who quasi-endorsed the Penny Plan) at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue?
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Fox's Lilian Huang Woo gets tips for mom-worthy meals from celebrity chef Donatella Arpaia and Milk Street Founder Chris Kimball. LISTEN HERE: Mama's Maria's Meatballs MEATBALL INGREDIENTS: (Serves 8-10) 1 small loaf stale Italian bread (about 8 thick slices) torn into 2 1/2" chunks 2 lbs. 80% lean ground beef chuck, broken up 5 garlic cloves, coarsely chopped ½ cup finely chopped flat-leaf parsley 1 large egg, lightly beaten 1 ½ cups grated Parmigiano-Reggiano or Grana Padano kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper canola oil for frying METHOD: Put bread in a bowl and add enough warm water to cover. Let stand for 5 minutes, turning to moisten evenly. Gently squeeze out excess water. Add beef, garlic, parsley, egg and ¾ cup of Parmigiano to the bread and combine. Season with Salt and pepper. Knead the mixture for at least 5 minutes with your hands, until uniformly combined and smooth. Pinch a tablespoon of meat into your palms and shape into a ball. Place on a baking sheet and continue with the rest of the mixture. Fill a 10" skillet halfway with canola oil and heat over high heat. When strands form along the bottom, lower 8-10 meatballs at a time into the oil. Do not overcrowd. They should be ¾ submerged in oil. Reduce the heat to medium and fry for 6-7 minutes each side, turning only once. Remove the meatballs from the oil and turn the heat back up to high before starting the second batch. 20 minutes before serving, add the meatballs to the simmering ragu. RAGU INGREDIENTS: (Serves 8-10) ¼ cup extra virgin olive oil 2 celery stalks with leaves, chopped 1 medium onion, chopped Kosher salt & freshly ground pepper 1 ½ lbs (6-8) meaty, bone-in-pork spareribs, rinsed 1 ½ lbs (6-8) sweet Italian sausage with fennel seeds, pierced all over with a fork 1 garlic clove, chopped 1 cup red wine 3 (35 oz.) cans tomato puree 1 handful fresh basil leaves METHOD: Warm olive oil in a large, heavy-bottom pan over medium heat. Add celery and onion, season with salt and pepper, and sauté, partially covered about 5 minutes until golden and soft. Add meats and raise the heat to medium-high. Sauté, turning occasionally until browned all over. Add garlic and cook until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add the wine and cook until it evaporates, 5 minutes. Add tomato puree, basil, salt and pepper. Partially cover, bring to a boil, and reduce heat. Let it simmer 1 ½-2 hours. Preheat oven to 350°. Bake beets until tender. Allow beets to cool. Peel and cut the beets into ½" pieces. In a small bowl whisk the mustard, honey, vinegar and salt and pepper. Slowly whisk in the olive oil. Place the arugula in a salad bow. Add the beets. Toss with some of the dressing. Then add the cheese and the nuts. Drizzle with more of the dressing, to taste. Preheat oven to 350°. Bake beets until tender. Allow beets to cool. Peel and cut the beets into ½" pieces. In a small bowl whisk the mustard, honey, vinegar and salt and pepper. Slowly whisk in the olive oil. Place the arugula in a salad bow. Add the beets. Toss with some of the dressing. Then add the cheese and the nuts. Drizzle with more of the dressing, to taste. Recipe: Fennel-Rosemary Porchetta Start to Finish: 1½ days (30 minutes active) Servings: 8 Transforming a whole hog tradition into a home cook-friendly holiday pork roast was challenging. We tried a variety of cuts of meat. After testing recipes with pork loin (too dry) and pork belly (too fatty), we settled on a boneless pork butt roast. To replicate the bold flavors of fresh herbs, fennel and garlic used to season traditional porchetta, we made a seasoning paste with rosemary and oregano, as well as 20 cloves of garlic and more than ½ cup fennel seeds. Because the whole hog is used in Umbria, porchetta benefits from a blend of different cuts. To achieve this, we added pancetta (seasoned, un-smoked pork belly), which lent a richness to the filling and, along with butter, helped baste the roast from the inside out. A separate rub of brown sugar, salt and ground black pepper helped season the exterior as well as contribute some tasty browned bits. A simple jus of de-fatted pan drippings combined with fresh lemon juice, fruity olive oil and more pepper added extra flavor and moisture to the slices of perfectly seasoned, slow-roasted pork. To further drive home the fennel--a key flavoring of the dish in Italy--we used the time--as well as the pan--while the roasted pork rests to roast wedges of fresh fennel. Be sure to buy a boneless pork butt, not a boneless picnic roast; both are cut from the shoulder, but the butt comes from higher up on the animal and has better shape for this recipe. All told, you will need 10 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon ground fennel seed--the larger amount is used for the roast and the rest seasons the sauce. To be efficient, grind all of it at once by pulverizing 11 tablespoons in a spice grinder. The longer the pork rests, the easier it will be to slice. Porchetta leftovers make great sandwiches, thinly sliced and served on crusty bread or ciabatta rolls. Any leftover roasted fennel would be great on the sandwich, as well. Don't cut short the porchetta's resting time. The roast is much easier to slice after it rests for the full hour. For the roast: 7- to 8-pound boneless pork butt 8 ounces pancetta, cut into ½-inch cubes 4 tablespoons (½ stick) salted butter, room temperature 1 cup (1½ ounces) lightly packed fresh rosemary leaves 1 cup (1 ounce) fresh oregano leaves 20 garlic cloves, peeled 1 tablespoon red pepper flakes ½ cup plus 2 tablespoons ground fennel, divided Kosher salt 2 tablespoons packed light brown sugar 2 teaspoons ground black pepper For the sauce: ¾ cup pan juices ? cup lemon juice (3 to 4 lemons) ¼ cup water 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 2 teaspoons ground black pepper 1 teaspoon ground fennel To prepare the roast, remove any twine or netting around the pork. Locate the cut made to remove the bone, then open up the roast. Using a sharp knife, continue the cut until the roast opens like a book; do not cut all the way through, as the meat must remain in one piece. Using the tip of a paring knife, make 1-inch-deep incisions into the pork, spaced about 1 inch apart; do not cut all the way through the meat. Set aside. In a food processor, pulse the pancetta until coarsely chopped, about 15 pulses. Add the butter, rosemary, oregano, garlic, pepper flakes, ½ cup of the ground fennel and 2 teaspoons salt. Process until the mixture forms a spreadable paste, about 1 minute, scraping the bowl as needed. Spread the paste evenly over the interior of the pork, pressing the paste into the cuts. Roll the roast into a tight cylinder, then set it seam side down. Cut 7 to 9 pieces of kitchen twine, each 28 to 30 inches long. In a small bowl, stir together the remaining 2 tablespoons ground fennel, 1 tablespoon salt, the brown sugar and pepper. Rub this mixture over the top and sides of the roast. Using the twine, tie the roast at 1-inch intervals; you may not need all of the twine. Trim the ends of the twine. Wrap the roast tightly in plastic, transfer to a large baking dish and refrigerate for at least 24 hours or up to 48 hours. Heat the oven to 300°F with a rack in the middle position. Set a roasting rack in a roasting pan and pour 4 cups water into the pan. Unwrap the roast and set it fat-side up on the rack. Roast until the center registers 195°F, 6 to 7 hours. Transfer the roast to a carving board and let rest, uncovered, for 1 hour. Reserve the liquid in the pan. While the roast rests, make the sauce. Pour the liquid in the roasting pan into a fat separator; if making roasted fennel (see sidebar), do not wash the roasting pan. Let the liquid settle for 5 minutes. In a medium bowl, whisk together ¾ cup of the juices, the lemon juice, water, olive oil, pepper and ground fennel. Cut the pork into thin slices, removing the twine as you slice. Serve with the pan sauce. Roasted Fennel Start to finish: 50 minutes Servings: 8 4 large fennel bulbs, trimmed, halved, cored and cut lengthwise into 1-inch wedges ¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil 1 teaspoon kosher salt ½ cup water, if needed Heat the oven to 450°F with a rack in the middle position. In the roasting pan used to cook the porchetta, combine the fennel, oil and salt. Stir until the fennel is evenly coated. Roast for 20 minutes, then stir. Roast for another 10 minutes, then add the water and scrape up the browned bits on the bottom of the pan. Continue to roast until tender and lightly browned, about another 10 minutes. Reprinted from Once Upon a Chef by Jennifer Segal with permission by Chronicle Books, 2018 Red, White & Blue Summer Berry Trifle BERRY TRIFLES MAKE WONDERFUL (and patriotic) summer party desserts. Not only are they gorgeous, they feed a crowd and can be made in advance. The only drawback is that, with all their layers, they can be time-consuming to make from scratch. I save time by using high-quality store-bought ingredients, like crisp Savoiardi biscuits (a.k.a. crisp ladyfingers), cream cheese, and raspberry jam. The result is a dazzling, delicious trifle that can be made in 30 minutes. Use a deep, clear glass bowl or a footed glass trifle dish so the pretty layers can be seen. And don't worry if the layers look slightly uneven or if the layers mix a bitthat's the beauty of a trifle. You can also make the trifle in small glasses as individual parfaits. Serves 8 to 10 1 1/2 lb [680 g] strawberries, hulled and cut into 1/4_in [6-mm] slices 3/4 lb [340 g] raspberries 3/4 lb [340 g] blueberries 3/4 cup [225 g] seedless raspberry jam, best quality 1 1/2 cups [360 ml] cold heavy whipping cream 16 oz [455 g] cream cheese, at room temperature 1 3/4 cups [200 g] confectioners' sugar 1 tsp vanilla extract One 7-oz [200-g] package crisp ladyfingers (also called Savoiardi biscuits) Fresh mint, for garnish (optional) 1. Set aside a few of each berry for topping your finished trifle. 2. In a large bowl, heat the raspberry jam in the microwave for about 1 minute, or until hot and liquidy. Add the fresh berries and toss to coat. Let sit while you prepare the rest of the recipe, stirring occasionally. 3. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment (or beaters), whip the heavy cream until stiff peaks form. Set aside. 4. In another large bowl, use an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment (or beaters) to beat the cream cheese with the confectioners' sugar until smooth and creamy. Beat in the vanilla, then beat in a third of the whipped cream. Using a large rubber spatula, fold in the rest of the whipped cream until well combined (see Pro Tip). 5. Use a 9_in [23_cm] round trifle dish or glass bowl with a 14-cup [3.3-L] capacity. Line the bottom of the dish with a layer of ladyfingers, breaking into pieces as necessary. Follow with one-third of the berry-jam mixture (including one-third of the juices), then one-third of the cream cheese mixture. Add another layer of ladyfingers, berries, and cream, and then a third, ending with the cream; for the last layer of cream, leave a 1_in [2.5_cm] border around the edge showing the fruit beneath. Garnish with the reserved whole berries and mint (if using). Refrigerate for at least 8 hours or overnight before serving. heads up Be sure to plan ahead, as the trifle needs to sit in the fridge at least 8 hours before serving. sourcing savvy Savoiardi biscuits are crisp ladyfingers, usually sold in the packaged cookie section of the supermarket. Don't confuse them with the soft sponge cakelike ladyfingers from the bakerythose aren't nearly as good. pro tip Folding is a technique used to mix a light and airy ingredient, like whipped cream, into a heavier mixture, like sweetened cream cheese, without deflating the lighter mixture. To fold, place the heavier mixture in a bowl and top with the lighter mixture. Use a spatula to cut through the middle of the two mixtures down to the bottom of the bowl. Pull the spatula toward you, scooping up some of the heavier mixture. In one sweeping motion, fold the scooped up portion of the heavier mixture over the lighter mixture. Turn the bowl a quarter turn and repeat the motions, scraping the sides of the bowl occasionally, until the ingredients are well combined. Follow Lilian Woo on Twitter: @LilianNY Click HERE to listen to more FOX & Food podcasts
The Church of England is harnessing Amazon’s Alexa voice assistant to answer questions about faith and spread its Christian message. This week the Church launched its Alexa skill, which is essentially an app for the popular voice assistant. Via the Alexa skill, users can ask the Church of England for prayers, explanations of faith, as well as information about local church events and services. According to the Church of England, the skill aims to boost users’ knowledge of the Christian faith by answering questions such as: What is the Bible? Who is God? What is a Christian? Users activate the skill with the command “Alexa, open the Church of England.” In a YouTube video posted by the Church of England, Archbishop of York John Sentamu asks Alexa’s Church of England skill to read the Lord’s Prayer. The Church of England is planning to launch similar services for Google Home and Apple’s HomePod. “We’re planning to ensure users can find more answers to faith questions and to explore on other platforms in [the] future,” it said, in a statement. Alexa has been getting plenty attention this week after a woman claimed that her Amazon Echo Dot recorded her private conversation and sent it to a person on her contact list. In a statement to Tom’s Guide, Amazon blamed the situation on a series of bizarre misunderstandings.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Monday was National Waitstaff Day, a time to appreciate the estimated 2.25 million waitstaff working in America’s 542,000 eating and drinking establishments, and this year, the U.S. Census Bureau is urging Americans to “add a smile to the tip” as they dine out. But unfortunately, smiling servers might be hard to come by since legislation to eliminate tips remains on the docket in several states across the country. For those who have never worked in the food service industry, servers and bartenders commonly receive a wage that is below the minimum wage. Employers are allotted a “tip credit,” in which waitstaff and other tipped employees can be paid a wage that falls below the minimum requirement so long as the tips and paid wage combined is equal to or greater than the federal government and state’s minimum wage. Some advocacy groups, such as the Restaurant Opportunities Center and One Fair Wage, decry the tip credit as an “unfair” payment practice. Unfortunately, these misguided groups have launched numerous campaigns to raise the minimum wage so high that the tip credit would no longer be viable for employers. Apparently, these groups are unaware that arbitrarily raising the minimum wage has been proven to produce several negative consequences, including fewer jobs for low-skilled employees. In Michigan, signatures are being collected for a ballot initiative that would raise the minimum wage for tipped employees to $12 per hour by 2024. In Washington DC, voters will decide in June whether or not to increase the tipped employee wage in increments, “until it equals the standard minimum wage in 2026.” (Keep in mind, tipped employees in the nation’s capital received a wage increase in 2016, up to $5.00 an hour. Bills in the Massachusetts House and Senate have been introduced to incrementally increase the tipped wage, currently at $3.75. The increases would occur over eight years, until the wage equals the standard minimum wage. Pennsylvania’s proposed legislation would increase tipped employees’ wages instantly—from $2.83 to $9 per hour—and the minimum wage would increase each year until 2025, when it would be $15.75 per hour. Rhode Island’s pending legislation aims to raise the tipped wage of $3.89 “by fifty cents per year … until the tipped minimum wage is not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the regular minimum wage.” Finally, legislators in the Ohio House and Senate have introduced legislation to increase the minimum wage to $12 per hour by 2025, which would be implemented incrementally using 50-cent annual increases. Under current state law, tipped employee wages must be half the minimum wage, meaning employers must pay their tipped employees $6 per hour in 2019, up from $4.15 in 2018. It may seem difficult to argue against proposals that immediately deliver more money to tipped employees’ pockets, but these measures ignore other important parties in the restaurant business, especially owners and non-waitstaff employees, and they fail to recognize the problems such measures cause for the waitstaff. Under these proposals, the wage increase would be paid by an employee’s restaurant. Unfortunately, profit margins in the food and beverage industry are extremely slim, with a “3-5 percent average restaurant profit.” Labor costs—one of the largest expenses for restaurant owners—are estimated to be around “30 to 35 percent of gross sales.” These costs already eat into owners’ narrow profit margins. Moreover, most restaurants—even with existing tip credits—fail within their first year of operation, and of the restaurants that survive their first year, around 70 percent fail “within the next 3 to 5 years,” according to a recent study Perry Group International. Because of the problems these problems cause for restaurants, tipped employees—an oft-ignored contingent in the minimum wage debate—are arguably the most opposed to eliminating the tip credit. For example, when Maine voters approved an increase to the state’s minimum wage that included a raise on tipped wages in 2016, there was massive outcry throughout the food and beverage service industry. Thankfully, in 2017, the state’s legislature reversed the decision and reinstated the tip credit. Although certain groups are reluctant to acknowledge it, tipped employees often make more than the minimum wage. Joshua Chaisson is a server and vice president of Restaurant Workers of America, an advocacy organization borne out of the Maine debacle that’s dedicated to preserving the tip credit nationwide. As a server, Chaisson estimates that he earns an average of $22 per hour and fears if tip credits are eliminated, there will be serious consequences, including “increased automation in full-service restaurants … the harmful no-tipping model,” and a massive number of restaurant closures. Multiple studies support Chaisson’s reservations. For instance, a 2011 study found the elimination of the tip credit would produce a “decline in employment opportunities for tipped employees.” A “social experiment” conducted by one renowned restauranteur offers stark evidence that waiters and bartenders prefer being tipped. In 2015, Danny Meyer eliminated tipping from his restaurant, switching instead to a “hospitality included” menu. In 2017, a Grubstreet profile noted that servers’ wages actually dropped, not to mention Meyer lost nearly “40 percent of longtime front-of-house staffers.” It shouldn’t come as a great surprise, waitstaff in Michigan and Washington, DC are vehemently against the ballot initiatives, which demonstrates the restaurant industry’s wage model isn’t broken and definitely doesn’t need counterproductive government mandates that will backfire and harm those they intend to help. To commemorate Monday’s National Waitstaff Day, be sure to generously tip your server—preferably in cash—and don’t let know-nothing politicians convince you increasing the minimum wage is good for food industry workers.
Dr. Robert Epstein revealed the three big threats from Google, Facebook, and other Silicon Valley companies on SiriusXM Patriot’s Breitbart News Daily, Thursday, and explained how Google gets away with more than Facebook. “There are three big problems,” claimed Epstein. “One of the problems is surveillance, the second is censorship, and the third is manipulation. When it comes to the three big problems, Google is the biggest threat for all three because Google does more surveillance, more censorship, and more manipulation than Facebook, and of course those two companies together, they pretty much do more than any other company in the world, or any other government for that matter probably.” “Google simply is in more places. It’s monitoring us on more platforms, more methods than Facebook is,” he continued. “It has multiple blacklists, which it decides what we don’t see, and it has some extremely powerful ways for manipulating opinions, thoughts, purchases, and votes.” “What would have happened on election day, 2016, if Mark Zuckerberg early that morning had decided to send out ‘Go out and vote’ reminders just to supporters of Hillary Clinton. We know from Facebook’s own published data that if Zuckerberg had done that, that might have given Hillary Clinton an additional 450,000 votes or more that day of people who otherwise would’ve stayed home,” Epstein explained. “He has that power, and the question is, how would we know if he did something like that?” After being asked by Breitbart News Editor-In-Chief Alex Marlow why Facebook gets worse press than Google, Epstein responded, “Well, Google is fabulous at convincing us they’re just awesome, cool, hip… That they’re a big public library that just does dozens and dozens and things for us completely for free.” “There’s Google Wallet, there’s Google Docs, there’s Gmail, there’s the Google search engine, and so on and so forth. So they just convince us over and over again that they’re just awesome and cool and love giving us free things, so generally speaking, people don’t understand how Google really works and what Google really is,” he proclaimed. “Facebook is a little more straightforward, we kind of know what Facebook is, we know we turn over information to Facebook, we know they use that to send us ads. Google is much more subtle in what they do, and I think people don’t really understand how Google works.”
Many people love to concoct grand, elaborate conspiracies to explain the world around them. Instead of realizing they made bad decisions, it must have been some malevolent force out to get them. Instead of recognizing they are surrounded by incompetence, there must be some mysterious force pulling the strings working several steps ahead. Many people sleep better at night convinced of a malevolent conspiracy of sinister forces running government than realizing government is composed of incompetent bureaucrats protecting their turf. Wouldn't it reassure you to know your government functions at the hands of an evil genius pulling strings rather than that it is really an idiocracy just trying to keep afloat? That brings me to the Russians and our election. We know from various text messages from FBI agents that they felt it their mission to investigate and find evidence to stop Donald Trump from becoming president. For those who dismiss the idea of partisanship, look no further than the IRS, which worked to block conservative groups from getting nonprofit status. An internal investigation revealed partisan motivation. There were partisans involved at the FBI. The question is how much partisanship was involved, and here both Democrats and Republicans have a vested interest in muddying the water in favor of conspiracies. Democrats believe the Russians stole the election from Hillary Clinton. It is far more convenient for them to believe in an elaborate international conspiracy than to acknowledge they bet on a horse that should have long ago been sent to the political glue factory. Republicans also believe a conspiracy theory. They want you to believe the Christopher Steele dossier was the trigger for a host of attacks on and investigations within the Trump campaign paid for and orchestrated by Democrats. It is far easier to believe that than acknowledge the guy who claims to only hire the best people hired a bunch of people in bed with Russians who did not have America's best interests at heart. Barack Obama surrounded himself with people who had so much contempt for their political opponents that every time they made decisions about furthering investigations into Donald Trump, they presumed the absolute worst and made decisions accordingly. Now, Donald Trump has surrounded himself with people who have just as much contempt for the left as Obama's advisors did for the right. The Trump team presumes the worst about the FBI, the DOJ and everyone else. We have reached peak conspiracy. The truth is that our intelligence community had signal intelligence clearly showing the Russians wanted to interfere in our electoral processes. Our intelligence officials looked around and saw Paul Manafort and Carter Page were working with Trump and both had ties to Russians. They drew conclusions based on that intelligence. Along came Democrats with a dossier of information suggesting Trump was working with or being blackmailed by the Russians, and the Obama political team overseeing the intelligence community presumed the worst they could about Trump. Manafort and Page did not stay with Trump through the campaign. It is not really believable that they orchestrated a plot within the Trump team to steal the election. There is no evidence they went outside the campaign to execute the plan. But concurrently, it is true that Donald Trump Jr. was happy to meet with a Russian for dirt on Hillary Clinton. That is not illegal, but it is unethical. The Trump team believed the worst about the Clintons and surely believed the Clinton team would pull out all the stops, too. We are where we are because both sides believed the worst about the other. The Democrats never thought Trump would win and would rather believe a conspiracy theory than believe Clinton was a terrible candidate. Likewise, the Trump fans would rather believe the FBI was really out to get Trump than believe he made some staggeringly stupid hires and people around him made staggeringly unethical decisions. Forrest Gump was right. Stupid is as stupid does.
U.S. Secretary Mike Pompeo indicated on Thursday that it remains uncertain when American President Donald Trump will meet North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un to discuss a deal towards the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in exchange for sanctions relief, stressing that “real progress” has been made towards an agreement. Speaking from New York, Pompeo told reporters: This is going to be a process that will take days and weeks to work our way through. There will be tough moments, there will be difficult times. I have had some difficult conversations with them as well. They’ve given it right back to me too. … One ought to be neither surprised nor frightened or deterred by moments where it looks like there are challenges and difficulties, Things that can’t be bridge our mission is to bridge them so that we can achieve this historic outcome. The secretary stressed that progress has been made towards “setting the conditions” for a Trump-Kim summit, noting: While we may not know tomorrow [when the meeting will take placee], I will tell you we’ve made real progress in the last 72 hours towards setting the conditions … the conditions are putting President Trump and Chairman Kim Jong-Un in a place where we thing there could be real progress made by the two of them meeting. Earlier on Thursday, President Trump told reporters that North Korean officials are expected to come to Washington on Friday with a letter from Kim about the prospective summit. Pompeo noted that Vice Chairman Of North Korea Kim Yong Chol was preparing to travel to Washington to deliver the letter. The secretary acknowledged that convincing North Korea to take significant steps taken towards complete, verifiable, irreversible de-nuclearization, which he described as the Trump administration’s primary goal, will be “a difficult challenge,” adding that there is still work to do. Nevertheless, he stressed, “I’m confident we’re moving in the right direction,” adding: The proposed summit offers a historic opening for President Trump and Chairman Kim to boldly lead the United States and [North Korea] into a new era of peace and prosperity and security. Our two countries face a pivotal moment in our relationship in which it can be nothing short of tragic to let this opportunity go to waste The secretary went on to say that the Trump administration’s objective is “the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula” in exchange for “a brighter path for North Korea.” “We envision a strong, connected, and secure prosperous North Korea that maintains its cultural heritage, but its integrated into the community of nations,” he added.
A major laborers’ union with a large Hispanic immigrant membership is using an English literacy test to disqualify candidates from running for leadership positions in the union. The English competency requirement policy is being enforced by Local 78 of the Laborers’ International Union of North America (LIUNA), whose members work dangerous jobs handling hazardous waste, including asbestos removal. The union’s screening panel recently rejected the candidacies of two members seeking to run for office in June 2 elections — Matilde Guiracocha and Carlos Guzman — for failing to pass the English basic competency test. A literacy edict is enshrined in LIUNA’s constitution. Candidates are asked to read a passage from the union constitution to determine if they have basic English literacy skills. “Your disqualification is based upon your failure to have met the requirement contained in Article V, Section 3 that every candidate must be literate,” Local 78 chairperson of Judges of Elections Radek Korek said in a May 7 rejection letter to Guiracocha, who sought to run for auditor general. “An inability to read and write in Basic English would at a minimum put a candidate under a severe disadvantage and more likely prevent him or her from fulfilling the responsibilities of this office.’’ The union also found she didn’t meet job availability requirements in the year prior to the election. But Guirococha, 57, an Ecuadorian native who has been with the union for 17 years, cried foul. “I’m being discriminated against by the judges of elections of Local 78,” she said. Meanwhile Guzman, 56, in a May 9 response to his rejection, told the LIUNA national executive board in D.C. that Local 78 is selectively enforcing the literacy rule to stifle competition and rig elections. Guzman noted that he ran for office in 2015 after the screening panel said he “met all the requirements” — including English adequacy. “While my English skills have not changed, my political allegiance has, and this raises serious questions as to the motivations of the instant veto,” Guzman said. Guzman, also an Ecuadorian native, said he passed a basic literacy test before becoming a U.S. citizen in 2012. In his appeal letter, Guzman argues said the literacy test violates the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act. It’s not the first time LIUNA has come under fire for the English competency rule. Last year, Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta, who was appointed by President Trump, invalidated the election of LIUNA’s Local 872 in Nevada and Arizona after concluding the literacy rule was selectively enforced. Radik Korek, chairman of Local 78’s Election Judges who screen candidates, declined comment and referred questions to the union’s attorney. The union lawyer dismissed accusations of discrimination, saying Local 78 is abiding by a provision in LIUNA’s constitution and applied the English basic competency test uniformly to all 31 candidates seeking t to run in union elections.
There are some of us who know how far left the Democratic Party has become. Some are seeing it right now, while others still in the dark concerning how radical this party has become. Two weeks ago, Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), the House Minority Leader, defended MS-13, saying she was appalled over the president calling them “animals.” Then again, the news media decided to peddle fake news, claiming that President Trump was referring to immigrants as animals. That’s not true. Folks, there’s video and a transcript. They were wrong, but decided to peddle this crap anyway because the elite media has Trump Derangement Syndrome. In fact, it’s so systemic that the president now has liberals defending Latino gang members. They’re not animals, they’re still human beings is the hill the Left wants to die on—and people wonder why Democrats can’t get into an effective messaging war with this White House. The latest 2018 midterm ad from the Republican National Committee torches Democrats for their refusal to call things what they are. MS-13 is a roving pack of animal killers. They’re thugs. They’re trash. They deserve to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. They rape, torture and murder their victims. They’re garbage people. Period. I don’t care if it’s dehumanizing. Some times certain people and the criminal elements they align with deserve it. I find nothing wrong with the president dehumanizing a cancerous element that’s infecting the country. How did a segment of the country (progressives) become so soft? And please—spare me the whole respect for life and humanity aspect the Democrats are trying to drum up with their outrage. You’re a pro-abortion party. You leap to the defense of criminal thugs, but are silent when it comes to butchering babies. There is no light in these people in MS-13, just a miserable, evil cesspool of depravity. Yet, they’re not so bad, according to Democrats. When it comes to immigration enforcement and border security, you know which party is serious. And it’s not the one that seems to place hope in bunch of depraved rapists and killers that is MS-13.
If there’s one person on Team Obama who had trouble coping with the fact that the country decided to elect a man who is the diametric opposite of his boss, it’s Ben Rhodes. Rhodes, who served as Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategic Communications and Speechwriting, was the Obama’s mouthpiece for his foreign policy agenda. From Syria to the shoddy Iran nuclear deal, there was Rhodes crafting the Obama White House’s narrative to be sold to the American public. Since the 2016 election, Rhodes has taken to his Twitter account to criticize Trump’s foreign policy, mostly because the 45thpresident is everything that Obama is not in this field. Trump doesn’t dither. He doesn’t make promises and can’t back them up, which was an appalling aspect of Obama’s foreign policy—and I think the people of Syria would agree. Rhodes does not like the fact that Trump calls what some things are in the world, like “radical Islamic terrorism,” saying it alienates Muslim allies and emboldens our enemies. He said the more Trump taunts North Korea, the less of a chance there is for a diplomatic solution; North Korea agreed to denuclearization and a renewed peace agreement, though the proposed talks in Singapore next month have hit a bump with the president signaling our withdrawal from the summit. Yet, we’re still sending a diplomatic team to the city-state. He said Iran was complying with the nuclear agreement—wrong. Ben Rhodes reacting to Hillary Clinton's hilarious defeat in 2016 is the funniest part of the new Obama Documentary on HBO. What makes it even better is throughout the documentary he brags how she is going to win. pic.twitter.com/MGBQNE5ATY — The Columbia Bugle ???? (@ColumbiaBugle) May 30, 2018 In HBO’s latest documentary, The Final Year, which highlights the Obama administration final months in power, Rhodes is captured grappling with the 2016 results. He’s perplexed. For a man who was the president’s mouth on foreign policy, he’s at a loss for words. He cannot articulate any of his opinions. He’s totally awe-struck that Donald J. Trump has beaten Hillary Clinton. He tells the cameras he’s outside trying to process the end of the Obama era and the beginning of what will become the Trump presidency. It’s the encapsulation of how every liberal felt that night. It was a sledgehammer to the face, the delicious reminder that demography is not destiny, that working class voters matter, that rural America mattered, and that liberals do not have a monopoly on the reign of power in this country. Trump allowed the Right to deliver a devastating uppercut to liberal America, a much-needed humbling for a segment of the nation that is still insufferably condescending towards those who don’t live in cities, have college degrees, or think that being woke is some form of achievement. We win and you lose. That’s the end of the story—and his face represents that feeling. You lost, bro. Now pack up your stuff and get out.
Inmate Christy Wilson, 29. "One of the things that bothers me the most is my son came to visit me in jail and he was like,' Mom, please don't make me come and visit you here again.' It's hard. To see that little face, that gives me all the strength I need. How could you do something like that to someone you love so dearly? It's not the you don't love your kids but the addiction takes hold of you and you'll do anything you have to do to get it. It's a vicious cycle that never ends unless you quit drugs." AP
With Republicans taking control of the Iowa legislature, school choice proposals are likely to see more daylight than in recent years, the Cedar Rapids Gazette reports. “I’m pretty confident we’re going to come out of this session with some type of school choice bill that hopefully is signed,” state Rep. Walt Rogers, a Cedar Falls Republican and the new chairman of the House education committee, told the paper. He said proposals might be limited to a pilot project or lawmakers could be more aggressive and push education savings accounts. Read more here.
5 Things You Didn't Know About Abby Huntsman Ainsley Earhardt Donates $50K of Book Proceeds to Folds of Honor Fox News Insider caught up with "Fox & Friends" anchor and best-selling author Ainsley Earhardt for an inside look at her life away from the studio. See what the South Carolina native had to say below... 1. Jesus and my daughter, Hayden, are the best gifts God has ever given me. My faith is something I rely on heavily. God blessed me with His son and then He blessed me with my very own daughter to love. It's been a wonderful life. When I go home, I love to open the door and hear my daughter say 'Mama, Mama!' and she runs into my arms and my heart melts. She is definitely my greatest joy. I pray daily that God blesses me with a very long life so I can watch her grow up and be there for her. I pray that she comes to know Christ at an early age and that God watches over her as she grows up in this crazy city called New York. 2. I completed a half marathon in Austin, Texas. At first I told my friend there was no way I could run that far. It was actually more of a fast walk, like a shuffle. We trained and trained and I got better and better and we did it. My leg was killing me, but I made it! 3. I wore three sets of braces because my teeth were so bad. My teeth were really separated when I was young. One set actually ended up breaking, but it all worked out and now I love my smile! 4. My friend and co-worker Geraldo Rivera was one of my daughter's first babysitters, when I brought her into Fox News Channel for her first TV appearance after she was born. He watched Hayden in the hallway outside the studio while I was inside. I remember thinking that it was so cool that Geraldo, who I used to watch on TV, was babysitting my daughter for me. 5. When I was a little girl I went with my family to Washington, D.C. for a basketball tournament. My dad was the coach. We toured the city and saw the space museum and all the monuments, including the White House. Here I am all these years later, anchoring the #1 morning show on cable news, getting an opportunity to speak to the President of the United States and visiting the Oval Office! In her new book, The Light Within Me: An Inspirational Memoir, Ainsley offers a powerful, uplifting look at her life and her spiritual journey, reflecting on her family, her faith, and her successful career. Showing Hayden some of the pictures in my new book, “The Light Within Me,” available tomorrow! #TheLightWithinMe @foxandfriends pic.twitter.com/JCyrnscJah — Ainsley Earhardt (@ainsleyearhardt) April 23, 2018 See more about your favorite Fox News hosts... Judge Jeanine Tomi Lahren Shannon Bream Sandra Smith Harris Faulkner
Yesterday, we learned the manufacturing renaissance continues to gain strength - this time from the Kansas City Federal Reserve. Statement: The Tenth District (covers western Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming and northern New Mexico). Manufacturing activity continued to expand rapidly, with the composite index at its highest level in survey history for the second consecutive month. Highlights include gains in new orders, number of employees, and average workweek. Observations: A very strong month for sales across all markets and weather was not the deciding factor - individual spend was. Steel tariffs continue to be a strong headwind. When Trump decided not to make a final decision until June 1 all that did was raise pricing by the domestic suppliers again and keep the foreign suppliers out as they did not know what their tariff rates would be if at all. Some stability in the marketplace would be nice. Work force availability is a big issue right now. Hiring skilled and relatively unskilled labor is very difficult. Market Worry & Resolve The market had another chance to show its grit on Thursday. Once again, buyers materialized to buy the dip, which is the good news, but the major indices closed lower. This reflects the fact that outside “noise” is more than a speed bump for the rally. That noise is a geopolitical risk and the uncertainty over trade negotiations. Ironically, I think the worst-case scenario is the status quo that the markets and Washington, D.C. have learned to live with a long time ago. Right now, the unknown continues to distract from great economic data. I’m loving the action in truckers, one of my big investment themes centers around those intermodal containers. There is no pure ETF to position yourself for the boom in trucks and intermodal, but iShares Dow Jones Transport ETF (IYT) comes the closest. Top holdings by weights: FedEx (FDX): 14.8% Norfolk Southern (NSC): 8.8% Union Pacific (UNP): 8.2% J.B. Hunt (JBHT): 7.2% United Parcel (UPS): 7.0% C.H. Robinson (CHRW): 4.8% Landstar System (LSTR): 4.8% Kirby Corp (KEX): 4.7% Kansas City Southern (KSU): 4.7% United Continental (UAL): 4.0% Consumers Strong But Selective I also love the smarter and wealthier consumer theme, but that means there will continue to be distinct winners and losers in retail. That brings me to the conference call, which has become the most important job of management at publicly traded companies. The tirades going on (like Elon Musk's) mean instant selling, but it also means one wrong word, like the CFO at Caterpillar learned, can erase three months of amazing business execution. Yesterday morning, the conference call saved L Brands (LB) after a terrible earnings release but sunk Best Buy (BBY) after a great earnings release. Today’s Session Yesterday evening word came out of North Korea that the regime still desires a meeting with President Trump calling it something in the best interest of the whole world. That development helped stocks early in preopen trading but major equities began to slip and it looks like we’re in for a bumpy start. Speaking of reversals, there are two that are intriguing. The Ten Year bond yield is now back under 3.0% and some are reading that as anticipation of weaker growth. West Texas Intermediate is getting slammed on reports that Saudi Arabia and Russia are considering production increase in the second half of the year. WTI is now below $70.00 which needs to hold as a psychological support point.
The ripple effects of the financially troubled Spanish-based renewable energy giant Abengoa just slammed into its biofuel plants in the United States. Whether it’s a short-term setback or a signal of problems that run much deeper for the industry remain to be seen as Abengoa fights off the prospect of bankruptcy. According to reports in Spanish media, Abengoa is suspending its cellulosic biofuels plant in Hugoton, Kansas, as well as six other bioenergy plants in the U.S., including a facility in Colwich, Kansas, that produces corn-based ethanol. The company is also reportedly on the verge of shutting down the headquarters of Abengoa Bioenergy in St. Louis. Abengoa Bioenergy employs 462 people in the U.S., making up about 10 percent of the multinational’s global workforce. Watchdog.org left multiple voicemail messages with Abengoa Bioenergy but has not received a response. However, the economic development director of the county where the Hugoton facility is located told the Garden City Telegram about 50 employees have lost their jobs. “I think we have to see how this thing plays out. In the short run, of course, it’s a devastating blow,” said Neal Gillespie, Stevens County Economic Development director. “In the long run, I think there’s a lot of value in that plant out there, and I suspect that either they will get it up and going or someone else will get it up and going.” An employee at the Huguton plant told Biomass Magazine, a trade journal, an Abengoa executive cited financial difficulties for the layoffs and added the company does not have sufficient funds to continue paying wages. “We were told layoffs were worldwide and only about 30 people remain at the corporate office in St. Louis,” the employee said. The layoffs and shutdowns mark an about-face for the Seville, Spain-based parent company. On Nov. 27, Abengoa told Platts in a statement, “Abengoa’s plants continue operating as normal, and at present, no stops are expected to take place.” In yet another indication of serious financial trouble, the agricultural media outlet DTN/The Progressive Farmer reported the Nebraska Ethanol Board said the Abgengoa plant in York, Nebraska, is not in operation. What’s more, DTN reported a major corn feedstock provider to Abengoa’s plants in Nebraska and Kansas said it has not been paid for corn already delivered to the plants dating back to July. The feedstock provider filed an amended lawsuit against Abengoa on Thursday. Things are moving fast as Abengoa and its subsidiaries around the world scramble in the wake of the company’s announcement Nov. 25 that it filed for preliminary creditor protection, a step that could lead to the largest bankruptcy case in Spain’s history. But this is the first time that Abengoa’s financial problems has directly affected its bioenergy division, adding another layer of uncertainty about the corporation. “They are a great company,” Bob Dinneen, president and chief executive officer for the Renewable Fuels Association, told DTN/The Progressive Farmer. “I’ve got great confidence in their technology. I suspect they will right this ship. It’s a multi-faceted company. I’m certain they will come through this.” U.S. biofuels advocates say the facility shutdowns in Kansas don’t point to larger problems with the the ethanol and biofuels industry but to the specific financial problems facing Abengoa. But Charlie Drevna, distinguished senior fellow at the Institute for Energy Research and a noted critic of the industry, disagrees. “This is just another prime example of the technology not being there, at least as a competitive commercial technology,” Drevna told Watchdog.org. The Abengoa Bioenergy facility in Hugoton produces cellulosic biofuel that uses renewable, organic and nonfood material such as switchgrass, wood chips and corn stalks. Its facility in Colwich, Kansas, has capacity to produce 25 million gallons of corn-based ethanol per year. Abengoa’s bioenergy division also has U.S. facilities in Portales, New Mexico; York, Nebraska; Madison, Illinois; Mount Vernon, Indiana and Ravenna, Nebraska. Abengoa constructed the Hugoton plant with help from the U.S. Department of Energy, receiving a $132.4 million loan guarantee and a $97 million grant. Earlier this year, Chris Standlee, executive vice president of global affairs for Abengoa Bioenenergy, told Watchdog.org the loan guarantee has been paid off. The biofuels industry relies heavily on federal mandates. Under the Renewable Fuel Standard, billions of gallons of renewable fuels must be blended into the nation’s gasoline supply every year. Corn-based ethanol makes up the vast majority of the fuel. Cellulosic biofuels have been trying to make up a bigger share but has not grown nearly as much as anticipated when the Renewable Fuel Standard was put in place back in 2005. EPA recently announced requirements for renewable fuel volumes for 2014 through 2016 under the RFS and called for a big bump in cellulosic biofuels: Critics such as Drevna say the federal government shouldn’t be in the business of mandating fuel requirements and point to Abengoa’s financial crisis to prove their point. “Your heart goes out to the employees in these facilities, but how long are we going to provide jobs based on government social engineering,” Drevna said in a telephone interview. “I’m not going to comment on what kind of investments Abengoa did or did not make. All I know is they’re shutting down a plant in Kansas that can’t even compete in a mandated market. How they can compete in a free market?” “As a trade journal, we don’t like to hear about or report on stories like this, but it’s an important development,” Anna Simet, editor of Biomass Magazine, wrote Friday. “A big part of it, unfortunately, is public perception. People have a problem when government money is given to projects like these, and they experience failure. We all know that. The renewables industry will never hear the end of the Solyndra debacle, no matter how much progress is made.” The Abengoa financial crisis is a major news story in Spain, with labor unions calling on the Spanish government to bail out the company. So far, the government under Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has resisted, but with elections coming up later this month, the pressure is intensifying. It’s unclear whether Abengoa’s financial woes may also have an effect on two of its solar facilities in the U.S. The company received Department of Energy loan guarantees of $1.45 billion to build the Solana solar plant in Arizona and $1.2 billion to construct the Mojave Solar Project in California. The Department of Energy told Watchdog.org the agency doesn’t disclose details on specific projects, but said the Mojave and Solana projects are in good standing and the loans are getting repaid.
We're about to go into a long holiday weekend, with something of a mystery to consider, in that it would seem that young adults between the ages of 20 and 24 are vanishing from the state of California. That's according to population data that has been published by the state's Employment Development Department in its monthly Demographic Labor Force Summary Tables, where we find that after reached a peak of 2,992,000 in October 2015, the trailing 12 month average of the state's population of these young adults has been nearly decimated, falling to 2,715,000 in April 2018. That's not the case for every other age demographic in California's population over the last two and a half years. The following chart shows the overall change the state's population by age group from October 2015 to April 2018. And for the sake of filling in the gaps in between this 31 month span, the following spaghetti chart presents how the population of each of these major age groups has evolved from October 2015 to April 2018 as a percentage of its October 2015 population level, where you can quickly determine which age groups have grown and which have shrunk over that time. The same phenomenon is showing up in national population data for the U.S. Looking at national data for the Age 20-24 population and rounding to the nearest thousand, we find that there were 22,693,000 young adults in 1 July 2015, which decreased to 22,381,000 by 1 July 2016. Taking advantage of the available cohort population for 2017's Age 20-24 population, we can project that the numbers of this demographic group will continue to decline, with an early estimate of 21,774,000 that would apply for 1 July 2017. That's a 919,000 decline over two years for the entire U.S., where if we limit California's Age 20-24 population change to an average 24 month period since October 2015, we find that its equivalent population decline over a two year period is 198,000, which would account for 21.5% of the national decline. Overall, the population of California represents one out of every eight Americans (or 12.5%), so that 21.5% figure seems like a disproportionately large share of a seemingly vanishing population. Fortunately, there's a non-nefarious explanation for why so many Californians between the ages of 20 and 24 are disappearing from the state's population count: the population of this age group within California had been over-represented compared to the rest of the nation in previous years. In 2015, Californians between 20 and 24 years old made up 13.2% of the nation's total in this age demographic, which has rapidly fallen in the period of time since, where April 2018's population of 2,715,000 young adults in California make up about one out of eight Americans in our early estimate for 2017's population of this group. This portion of the state's population is reverting back to its mean share within the national population. Meanwhile, the age cohort that produced that over-representated share of Age 20-24 year old Californian among the national population in previous years has aged up into the Age 25-34 group, which is seeing a significant boost in its numbers, and is second only to the state's population of senior citizens (Age 65+). But perhaps the most amazing thing is how fast the population of Age 20-24 year olds in California has been nearly decimated in such a short period of time. You might normally think of demographic change as something that takes generations to play out, but what's happened in California took place in the amount of time it takes a newborn to grow into a toddler ready to be toilet-trained!
By M.D. Kittle | Watchdog.org In what is being hailed as a “significant victory” for due process, a federal judge last week ruled that a lawsuit by mine developer Pebble Limited Partnership against the Environmental Protection Agency may proceed. Judge H. Russell Holland said PLP, the developer of a proposed copper and gold mine in southwest Alaska, has raised plausible claims the EPA improperly used input from anti-mining groups in crafting its Bristol Bay Watershed assessment. The study warns of potentially disastrous impacts the proposed multibillion-dollar open-pit mine could bring to the Bristol Bay Watershed, near the headwaters of the largest salmon fishery in the world. Holland’s ruling sets up what promises to be a long legal battle between the EPA and the developer. “Today’s decision is a significant victory for Pebble as it allows us to advance our case,” said Tom Collier, PLP’s chief executive officer, in a statement. “We are convinced the EPA has pursued a biased process against our project that then drove their actions toward a predetermined outcome,” Collier added. “Our fight with the EPA has been about a fair and transparent process for objectively evaluating a development plan for our project once we have presented it via the permitting process.” Now the developer plans to seek discovery, deposing federal employees and external third parties, to develop additional evidence “regarding allegations that EPA allowed anti-mine activists in inappropriate access and influence with respect to EPA actions against Pebble,” Collier said. PLP also is seeking documents that may show the EPA’s problem with transparency under the Freedom of Information Act. The EPA’s inspector general currently is looking into allegations of misconduct by the agency. EPA officials have forwarded request for comment to the U.S. Department of Justice. In March, William S. Cohen announced that his firm, the Cohen Group, assisted by the law firm DLA Piper Global, will conduct an independent review to determine whether the EPA acted fairly. Cohen, former defense secretary in the Clinton administration, was retained by PLP to look into the EPA’s handling of the matter. The U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee has questioned the EPA’s move to preemptively kill the proposed mine project before PLP has the opportunity to present its full plan to regulators. Documents obtained under Freedom of Information Act requests raise serious questions about the EPA’s conduct. PLP has long said it welcomes a thorough review of its proposals, but wants the opportunity to present the information through due process, which the group believes has been denied via the EPA’s preemptive push to kill the project. “Our message is about standing up for fair and due process,” PLP spokesman Mike Heatwole told Watchdog last August.
Sir Martin Sorrell will have control of board appointments and deals in his new venture, giving him more power than he held at WPP before his controversial departure. The veteran advertising executive stunned the market yesterday with plans to launch a rapid return only six weeks after he resigned from WPP in the wake of an investigation...Sir Martin Sorrell will have control of board appointments and deals in his new venture, giving him more power than he held at WPP before his controversial departure. The veteran advertising executive stunned the market yesterday with plans to launch a rapid return only six weeks after he resigned from WPP in the wake of an investigation...Sir Martin Sorrell will have control of board appointments and deals in his new venture, giving him more power than he held at...
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. PARIS -- French President Emmanuel Macron has been labeled "the Trump whisperer" by some members of the media for his relationship with the American commander in chief. When Macron met last week with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the Saint Petersburg International Economic Forum, hopefully Trump was paying close attention, because he would have discovered that what Macron said runs counter to what the Washington establishment is pressuring Trump to do. When Trump decided to pull America out of the Iran nuclear deal while France, Germany and Britain chose to remain, U.S. National Security Adviser John Bolton was quick to issue veiled threats. "I think the Europeans will see that it's in their interest ultimately to come along with us," Bolton told CNN. Standing beside Putin last week, Macron said that he hopes "(French) companies can also find pragmatic solutions with other countries and other companies ... to protect their interests when they are highly exposed to the United States, to the American market, but that we can guarantee to Iran the viability of the projects that have been launched." That doesn't make it sound as if France's plan is to shrug and say, "Well, I guess we have to go along with what John Bolton says." Trump's decision to leave sanctions against Iran in place might even spark some new and creative partnerships between European signatories to the Iran deal and other countries that may already have expertise in deftly navigating American sanctions -- including Russia. Another issue that's frequently being raised in the West is the notion that Russia is responsible for cyberattacks capable of determining electoral outcomes in foreign countries. Some of us have laughed at the notion that a handful of trolls (Russian or otherwise) could have made a dent in the 2016 U.S. presidential election when not even Hillary Clinton's vast campaign resources could secure her victory. Still, the notion of "Russian interference" persists. Macron's speech to the U.S. Congress in April was loaded with dog whistles about "Western values" being at risk, the challenges presented by a "yet unknown new world order," and "the destabilization of our international community by new powers and criminal states." "Other powers, with a stronger strategy and ambition, will then fill the void we would leave empty," Macron said. "Other powers will not hesitate one second to advocate their own model to shape the 21st century world order." Macron is a master of the rhetorical ellipsis, drawing attention to the elephant in the room while declining to mention it overtly. It's hard to imagine what other world power Macron might have been referring to in his address to members of Congress whose brains were preloaded with anti-Russian notions. But in Saint Petersburg mere weeks later, Macron said that he and Putin would like to implement a cyberspace information exchange between France and Russia, and coordinate efforts to combat cyberattacks. Imagine the hole that Macron would have blasted in the anti-Russia narrative if he had said in his speech to Congress that France was going to partner with Russia to counter cyberattacks. On the issue of Middle Eastern conflict, Macron told Congress that lasting peace means "respect(ing) the sovereignty of the nations." What he didn't explicitly say is that he disagrees with the consensus in Washington that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad must step down. He said so in Russia, though. "French policy is not to proceed from the outside to any change of regime whatsoever or to any transition," Macron said. "Our policy is to build an inclusive political solution that will develop the constitutional framework, which will allow all Syrian people, including Syrians who had to flee, to vote and to choose their rulers." Even with free elections in Syria, Assad could very well remain in power, in which case the past seven years of conflict (including the joint Saudi-U.S. effort to sponsor "rebels" to oust Assad) would have been a complete waste of time, money and lives. All that drama just to come back around to the notion that the Syrians should be left alone to determine their own fate. "I am very lucid about the misunderstandings that may have existed and settled between us," Putin told Macron last week. "Some of these misunderstandings ... (are) not attributable to us, but they are there, and we must know how to recover." Ellipsis master Macron didn't specify to whom or what he attributes any "misunderstandings" between Russia and France. I guess he's leaving that to our imagination. Members of the U.S. Congress appeared to be smitten with Macron in April, giving him a standing ovation after his speech. They might have been heartbroken last week when they caught him casting amorous glances toward Russia.
As part of the ongoing cuts at Condé Nast, eight people were chopped at Vogue, the flagship title headed by Anna Wintour. Among those who The Post has confirmed were laid off were Director of Communications Zara Rahim and Senior Market Editor Kirby Marzec. News of the cuts was first reported by Business of Fashion. The moves are part of the rolling cuts that are re-shaping Condé Nast, which was said to have lost more than $100 million last year. As part of that, earlier this year, Vanity Fair cut about 20 editorial staff, and Glamour cut around 10 in a single day of bloodletting. Radhika Jones, who replaced Graydon Carter at the helm of VF earlier this year, has slowly been filling about half the spots. Former New Republic Editor Eric Bates — most recently features editor at New York magazine — this week was tapped to be executive editor, news and investigations. Daniel Kile, a former Time Inc. public relations executive, was named executive editor, events and strategy.
Actress Sally Field chimed in on comedian Samantha Bee’s profane comments about Ivanka Trump Thursday, declaring that the President’s eldest daughter is beneath being called a “c*nt.” “I like Samantha Bee a lot, but she is flat wrong to call Ivanka a c*nt,” Field said, adding, “cunts are powerful, beautiful, nurturing and honest.” I like Samantha Bee a lot, but she is flat wrong to call Ivanka a cunt. Cunts are powerful, beautiful, nurturing and honest. — Sally Field (@sally_field) May 31, 2018 Field’s further insult to Ivanka Trump received praise from CNN analyst Brian Karem, a former Playboy contributor who auditioned for his current gig at the cable network by ranting at White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders. Karem dubbed the rumination on “c*nts” the “best tweet of the day.” HA! Okay…best tweet of the day young lady. — Brian J. Karem (@BrianKarem) May 31, 2018 Bee called the White House senior a “feckless c*nt” after Ivanka Trump tweeted a loving photograph of herself with one of her two sons. The profane insult set off a media firestorm, prompting the late-night host to apologize. “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it,” tweeted Bee. I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it. — Samantha Bee (@iamsambee) May 31, 2018 Shortly after, TBS issued a separate statement, admitting Bee’s foul-mouthed attack “should not have been aired.” Statement from TBS: “Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night. Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” And…scene. — Judy Kurtz (@JudyKurtz) May 31, 2018 In wake of Bee’s remark, Autotrader announced on Thursday that it halted its advertising sponsorship of Full Frontal. “Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal,” read a message from the Autotrader official Twitter account. “he comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company,” tweeted the company. “As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.” Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal. The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company. As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee. — Autotrader (@AutoTrader_com) May 31, 2018 Neither Turner Broadcasting nor its parent company Time Warner have indicated that CEO Jeff Bewkes will follow the lead of Disney CEO Bob Iger, who personally called Valerie Jarrett to apologize for a tweet from Roseanne Barr, who then worked for Disney subsidiary ABC.
President Trump should refuse to hold a summit with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un unless Kim is willing to first offer a firm and verifiable plan to get rid of his nuclear weapons. Such a plan must have specifics – not simply aspirational talk – on how the North would denuclearize. And it must contain clear benchmarks and time limits with tight mechanisms that guarantee the deal is followed. If Pyongyang will not agree to such terms – or demands a peace treaty, diplomatic recognition or economic incentives first – President Trump should refuse to meet with Kim. President Trump last week cancelled the summit with Kim that was scheduled for June 12 in Singapore. But on Tuesday White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement that “the United States continues to actively prepare for President Trump’s expected summit with leader Kim in Singapore.” A series of meetings between U.S. and North Korean officials were underway to prepare for the summit, although the summit has not been declared back on as of this writing. There is no point in holding a summit just for the sake of having a summit. We need more than a photo op. The Trump administration simply can’t afford to reward the Kim regime with a summit unless the North is willing to remove the threat that nearly brought East Asia to the brink of war. Anything less would be a tragic mistake that history would never forgive us for. While the Trump administration clearly is pulling out all the stops to secure a summit with North Korea, we must remember who we are dealing with. As history shows us time and time again, the Kim family lies, cheats and does anything it can to ensure its survival. There is no agreement that North Korea has not broken, no weapons technology it has not sold, no risk it won’t take, no international norm it cares to uphold. Such is the case when you are dealing with a communist regime that is responsible for the death of millions of people over decades. We must also keep in mind that North Korea has been on a quest for nuclear arms since the 1950s – when Kim’s grandfather ruled. The impoverished nation has spent billions of dollars to develop as many as 60 nuclear weapons, along with missiles that have the range to strike the U.S. homeland. Combined with its chemical and most likely biological weapons, the North has a deadly arsenal that can easily kill millions of people within minutes. This arsenal, by its sheer size and capabilities, ensures North Korea’s survival. No wonder the regime continues to make only aspirational pledges to give it up – never once spelling out the terms of disarmament. Kim knows that having weapons of mass destruction means a U.S. invasion is almost completely out of the question. This is very likely why there has been no firm agreement on a summit. Knowing that much of the world would prefer to see his regime fall, Kim is unlikely to ever agree to give up what he sees as his ultimate insurance policy. The North Korean leader may have concluded there is nothing we can offer him that would take the place of his nuclear bombs that keep him in power and keep him alive. He is well aware that other dictators have been killed after they’ve been overthrown. It seems that Kim is trying to have his cake and eat it too – gain prized international legitimization and prestige by meeting with President Trump as fellow member of the nuclear club, without a firm pledge to abandon his nuclear weapons. Claiming to fear that America would not honor a security guarantee for his regime, Kim seems certain to demand some sort of trust-building measures before he takes any measures to get rid of his nukes. Such measures could include the easing of international economic sanctions, full diplomatic recognition by the U.S. and a peace treaty formally ending the Korean War. And if Kim gets such concessions he’s likely to follow in the footsteps of his grandfather than father and then break any promises he’s made to get the favorable treatment. We should have learned from experience by now that the word of all the members of the Kim dynasty is absolutely worthless. In any normal diplomatic setting, Kim’s call for U.S. concessions to start with might be a reasonable request. However, such a tactic comes right out of the North Korean playbook: pocket the concessions, stall on negotiations and build out your weapons of mass destruction arsenal even more. If Kim can drag out this process for a year or more, his scientists would most likely develop a long-range missile that could deliver an atomic or hydrogen bomb to the U.S. in the intervening period – our worst nightmare. What the Trump administration must do now is clear. It must press the North Koreans – whether in Singapore, along the demilitarized zone dividing the Koreas or in meetings in New York – for a firm and verifiable plan of action that commits the North to denuclearization. If the North Koreans want something to show good faith, we can easily remove a small amount of sanctions once they surrender one or two weapons or missiles, something I proposed in an op-ed for Fox News last week. If Kim won’t even agree to this, then his intentions are quite clear: he isn’t serious about denuclearization. While it may be tempting for President Trump to hold a summit in a longshot effort to attempt to secure a denuclearization deal, the overwhelming risks of failure outweigh the slim chances of success. And with the North Korean dictator taking a big step towards legitimization if he is given a summit without making a deal to go non-nuclear, Pyongyang would have every incentive to stall on any pledges for as long as it can. President Trump must hold the line on North Korea. If we change course now the risks and dangers are too great.
President Trump commented in a tweet Wednesday about the fact that Disney CEO Bob Iger called former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett to apologize for an offensive tweet posted by Roseanne Barr. The president said that Iger “never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC.” Bob Iger of ABC called Valerie Jarrett to let her know that “ABC does not tolerate comments like those” made by Roseanne Barr. Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC. Maybe I just didn’t get the call? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 Disney owns ABC and Barr’s show ‘Roseanne’ was cancelled Tuesday in light of her tweet. Iger called Jarrett ahead of ABC’s announcement to let her know. “He wanted me to know before he made it public that he was canceling the show,” Jarrett said Tuesday. She called the incident a “teaching moment.” "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show," ABC said in a brief statement. Barr tweeted about Jarett Tuesday: "Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj." She deleted the tweet and initially apologized Tuesday but then retweeted supporters defending the tweet Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning. Many in the media pointed out that White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders had told reporters yesterday that President Trump was focused on other issues when she was asked about the 'Roseanne' show's cancellation.
A Philadelphia 76ers executive may not have been totally trusting the process after all. Bryan Colangelo, the team’s president of basketball operations, was accused in a report by the Ringer on Tuesday of using fake social media accounts to criticize players on his own team, including Joel Embiid and Markelle Fultz and former players Jahlil Okafor and Nerlens Noel. The Ringer, citing an unnamed source, reported that five Twitter accounts were marked as suspicious, including one that followed 76ers employees but never tweeted and four that tweeted or replied to other users. Tweets from those accounts took shots at Embiid’s ego, blamed Fultz’s poor shooting on a former mentor, theorized that Okafor’s failed physical was the reason why a potential trade was nixed and called Noel a “selfish punk,” according to the Ringer. The accounts also took shots at Toronto Raptors general manager Masai Uijiri, who was an assistant under Colangelo and eventually replaced him. The accounts also ripped former 76ers general manager Sam Hinkie, whose tedious rebuild was dubbed “the process.” The Ringer report pointed out that after 76ers officials were contacted about the suspicious activity, some of the accounts went private -- including one that hadn’t been active since December. Colangelo, 52, confirmed in a statement to the Ringer that one of the accounts was his. “Like many of my colleagues in sports, I have used social media as a means to keep up with the news,” the statement said. “While I have never posted anything whatsoever on social media, I have used the @Phila1234567 Twitter account referenced in this story to monitor our industry and other current events. This storyline is disturbing to me on many levels, as I am not familiar with any of the other accounts that have been brought to my attention, nor do I know who is behind them or what their motives may be in using them.” Embiid also told ESPN that he talked with Colangelo and the executive denied the tweets were from him. “I talked to him and he said that he didn't say that,” Embiid told ESPN. “He called me just to deny the story. Gotta believe him until proven otherwise. If true, though, that would be really bad.” Colangelo is a two-time Executive of the Year Award winner and has served as a top executive in NBA front offices with three different teams – the Phoenix Suns, Raptors and 76ers. His father, Jerry Colangelo, 78, the longtime Phoenix Suns owner, now serves as a 76ers adviser.
State lawmakers in California this week advanced a bill crafted to further limit the sale of rifles and shotguns. Sen. Anthony Portantino sponsored Senate Bill 1100, which if successful would increase the purchase age from 18 to 21 for such firearms. As Fox News reported, the same age restriction currently applies to handguns sold in the state. The bill would further limit the number of long guns a California resident can legally purchase each month to one. That restriction also already applies to handguns. Portantino, a Democrat representing California’s 25th District, posted a celebratory tweet on Tuesday in the wake of the successful Senate vote. He cast his state, not the federal government, as the leader on the issue of gun control. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed “Good news #SB1100 to raise gun purchase age to 21 & limit gun sales to 1 per month passed the #StateSenate – if DC won’t act CALIFORNIA will,” he wrote. The bill passed in the Senate by a vote of 23 to 10 and is now set to move to the Assembly for consideration. In a recent update, the National Rifle Association’s Institute for Legislative Action called attention to both SB 1100 and a related bill currently eligible for an Assembly vote. “Assembly Bill 2382, sponsored by Assembly Member Mike Gipson (D-64), would require precursor firearms parts to be sold/transferred through a licensed precursor parts dealer in a similar process to the new laws regarding ammunition purchases,” the NRA wrote. Would you support any legislation limiting the sale of firearms? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. The bill would “further create a new crime for transfer of precursor parts without the involvement of a licensed precursor parts dealer to anyone under 21 years of age or prohibited from owning firearms,” the group said. Parts that could be impacted by the proposed legislation include gun barrels, ammunition feeding devices and upper receivers, the NRA’s post explained. The pro-gun lobbying entity called on its supporters in the state to contact legislators in an effort to defeat both bills. Some Republicans in the state, including Sen. Jim Nielsen, have questioned the scope of SB 1100, arguing that resources meant to reduce gun crimes would be better allocated elsewhere. He has advocated focusing on addressing gang violence and mental issues instead of imposing purchase limits. In addition to the current bill, Portantino has taken legislative action on other gun control measures. RELATED: Blue Wave Drying Up as Polls for NJ Senate Race Show Incumbent Dem. Struggling He recently announced Senate Bill 426, which would prohibit the state’s leading pension funds from investing in companies that sell guns outlawed in the state. “While Washington continues to be unable to pass prudent gun legislation it is imperative that California continues to step up,” he said. “Young people across America are demanding that legislators respond to the crisis of gun violence on campuses. As a dad and a legislator I am determined to build on their leadership and help California act appropriately.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
A motorcyclist in Washington state was cut on his neck and nearly crashed his bike after driving through a fishing line tied across a road on Friday by two teenage girls, officials said. Alexander Teston told Q13FOX he was driving in the town of Graham, located southeast of Tacoma, when he nearly got knocked off his motorcycle after driving through the line tied across the road. “If I hadn’t gripped my handlebars as tight as I was, I would have fallen off my bike and crashed,” Teston said. “I’m just sitting in the upright position and all of a sudden I feel a ridiculous amount of pressure on my throat. It was very thin, just like the line you see on my neck, and it just throws me back." Teston said he received a cut on his throat where he struck the line. “It was tied to a utility pole and a tree," he said. "The line snapped across my neck and I just kept holding on to my handle bars. Had it been something a little thicker, a little sharper, the jugular is right here." The Pierce County Sheriff's Department said Wednesday that detectives found fishing line at the scene, and that two teenage girls later confessed to stringing the line across the road. "They told deputies they were trying a trick to suspend a teddy bear in the air so cars would drive under it and see it floating in the air, Pierce County Sheriff's Det. Ed Troyer told Q13 FOX "When the motorcyclist hit it, they took off." AS MANY AS 20 VEHICLES CRASH IN PILEUP AT FOGGY SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA PASS; 15 INJURED Troyer added that the 15-year-olds were being cooperative and not arrested. Sheriff's deputies will forward the report to the Pierce County Prosecutor's Office, which will determine whether any if charges are to be filed. Teston told Q13FOX that with so many motorcyclists taking to the roads this time of year in warmer weather, he is concerned about other's safety. “Angers me and it’s ridiculous that people can have that kind of sense of humor if you want call it that; where someone is willing to do that," he said. "We need to teach people that vehicles are not something to be messed around with because you have someone’s life at stake."
North Korea is the most atheistic place on earth. Christianity is completely forbidden there. There is no right to religious liberty recognized in law there. So you might be surprised to hear that its capital city, Pyong Yang, was once known as the "Jerusalem of the East" because it was the center of missionary activity in East Asia. What went wrong? What went wrong is whether we're talking about an individual, a village, or a nation, the gospel changes things. Now, of course Christians understand that the Gospel changes things for the better, but what is less well known is that the Gospel also changes things for the worse. And which kind of change occurs is dependent directly on what the response to the Gospel is. Many Koreans were told the Gospel story and decided that they want to serve Jesus as their master. But Kim il-Sung, Kim Jong Un's grandfather and the founder of the regime, heard those stories and instead of deciding that he wanted to be a disciple of Jesus instead decided that he wanted to be Jesus himself. Sung re-wrote his own biography in ways that paralleled the Jesus stories. At his birth, the Sung nativity myth proclaims, the mountains shook. At a key moment in Sung's life, a dove descended from Heaven. The Gospel has power, a power which can save, or a power which when plugged into improperly can burn out the old institutions of society like so many obsolete circuit breakers. Something similar happened in the Taipang Rebellion, during the mid 1800s, in which a failed young man from a peasant village heard the Gospel accounts and concluded that he was Jesus' younger brother and launched, on that basis, the bloodiest war in modern Chinese history and one of the bloodiest wars in human history. The stories of the Gospels deeply resonate with human nature, so much that they have incredible power even to those who reject and co-opt their fundamental message. The South went the other direction. It embraced the Christian world view and with it the institutions of the free society. My friend, the late Alan Meltzer, put the South Korean miracle in the center of his famous seminar at Carnegie Mellon University because of its near miraculous transformation in human standards of living. It went from a medieval standard of living to great prosperity basically from 1980 to now. That's why we show an image of the Korean peninsula at night in our resources page at Vident Financial. The difference between the North Koreans and the South Koreans is not race. This is a nation cleaved in half during the live time of many still alive. It's not language; it's not weather. It's ideas. Some lead to life, some to death. One could look at the two nations on either side of the Jordan, Israel, and the Palestinian territories. The Jews and Arabs are cousin Semites, descended from the two sons of Abraham. There is no invisible barrier giving them different weather. The languages are actually surprisingly similar. What's the difference? Culture. Haiti and Dominican Republic, two halves of one island, but with completely different standards of living. Here's an interview with Rob West and Steve Moore of the MoneyWise radio show, in which we talk about the Korea story, and even give some helpful (I hope) hints about how to invest in an environment like the current uncertainty on the Korean peninsula.
Mayim Bialik is smart. In fact, she’s so smart that aside from starring in the hit sitcom “Big Bang Theory,” she’s also a neuroscientist and holds a doctorate from the University of California Los Angeles. Now, she’s sharing her advice on parenting with the masses in a new book that draws from her experiences raising two sons, Miles, 12 and Fredrick, 9. The 42-year-old, the author of “Girling Up: How to be Strong, Smart and Spectacular,” a New York Times Best Seller tackles the other side in her latest book, “Boying Up: How to be Brave, Bold and Brilliant,” and explained to the Houston Chronicle how she handles being a mom to two boys. Bialik admitted that being a mother to two boys has been a difficult as she struggled to allow her sons to be more independent. “I definitely became more aware of how much I was becoming more and more clingy as they pulled away, which is a natural thing for boys to do. It’s been a real exercise in patience and also trusting that they’re not going to go away forever and that this is part of a normal pulling away.” Bialik told the Chronicle it made sense for her to share her experiences in a book. “After thinking about it more, and realizing obviously I’m trained as a scientist of both the male and the female body and as a mom of two boys, it was something that obviously I had some experience,” she said. The actress explained that her books aren’t necessarily about empowering girls or boys or educating their parents, but about how to raise each of the sexes and understand the psychological aspects of both. “I think being a girl has its own set of pressures, which are very different from those of boys,” Bialik said. “A lot of the mixed messages girls get are more about appearance. ‘You’re perfect just the way you are,’ except that every image in the media indicates that you’re not. “Whereas with boys, the messages are what kind of emotional processing boys should or shouldn’t do. Are they sensitive but not too sensitive and aggressive but not too aggressive? I think it’s just different,” she added. The process of raising children is certainly challenging, and there are many guides available to assist in the journey along the way. Bialik isn’t claiming to have all the answers and even admits that her inspiration comes from other texts and well as her experiences with her own children and relying on friends who have older kids who lend a few tips.
People dressed for the occasion, including two women who brought renditions of Prince Harry and Maghan Markle that they had downloaded and printed from the Internet, attend a public viewing to watch the British royal wedding of Prince Harry to Meghan Markle at the The Cottage Tea Room at the Gardens of the World in Berlin, Germany. Getty Images
A Dallas police officer is being praised for comforting a 3-month-old baby in the moments after it was pulled out alive from an overturned vehicle. Officer Donald Boice was captured cradling the infant in images taken over the weekend by a Fox 4 News photographer, which have since been shared amongst cops in the area. "That could be my child, too,” Boice said. “And I'd want someone treating my child the same way." Dallas police say a Chevy Trailblazer driven by a family from Michigan was traveling at a high speed early Sunday when it hit an object in a Downtown Dallas construction zone, causing the vehicle to flip. Inside were three children, ages 5, 2 and 3-months old, and their parents. The father suffered a fractured arm and a head injury, but everyone else in the car, including the 3-month-old child, Jackson, appeared to be OK, according to Fox 4 News. "The best I can do is just kind of keep him, bounce him, sing to him the same songs that I sang to my kids when they were that age,” Boice said. Police say the images show a compassionate side of law enforcement that the public does not often see.
Minneapolis Star Tribune: With too many homeless and too few shelter beds, city funding policy debated De Andre Hudson got the bad news on a recent weekday evening when he called the homeless hot line at Simpson United Methodist Church, asking if the city had an open shelter bed. No luck. Every adult shelter bed in Minneapolis was filled, an advocate who was taking phone calls, told him. It meant another night spent riding the light rail back and forth between Minneapolis and St. Paul. Forty others like Hudson would also be denied. “It’s been like this for three months,” said Hudson, 45, a bag of clothes beside him. “I don’t like living on the street.” A $400,000 federal grant offered to the city could provide temporary shelter for Hudson and dozens like him, and it’s at the heart of a debate among officials and advocates on how the city of Minneapolis spends money it receives from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Minnesota Post: Where things stand with the effort to allow mining near the Boundary Waters For those who don’t want mining — or even the whiff of mining — to come anywhere near northern Minnesota’s protected Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, the last weeks of the Barack Obama administration were good ones. Just as Donald Trump was preparing to take office, the Obama administration declined to renew mineral leases held by the company Twin Metals, and began the process of blocking off nearly a quarter-million acres of Superior National Forest from mining projects for up to 20 years. Fourth District DFL Rep. Betty McCollum, one of Congress’ staunchest opponents of mining near the Boundary Waters, said back then that Minnesotans should celebrate the victories, but cautioned that “we have more work to do.” She was right. Shortly after Trump took office, proponents of allowing a path for mining to move forward in northeastern Minnesota have taken aim at the Obama decisions from every vantage point available. Twin Cities Pioneer Press: Democrat Matt Pelikan to run for attorney general Matt Pelikan, a Democratic attorney with significant political experience, is joining the ranks hoping to replace Attorney General Lori Swanson. “This is a time of unprecedented challenges for Minnesota and for the progressive values that I cherish,” Pelikan, who will formally announce his campaign in the coming days, said in an interview. “I believe we need a strong progressive attorney general now more than ever.” The race for Minnesota’s top lawyer may or may not have an incumbent. Swanson, a three-term Democratic incumbent, is weighing whether to run again or vie in the governor’s race. Pelikan, like others, is not waiting for her to decide. Two Democrats — Rep. Debra Hilstrom and former Rep. Ryan Winkler — and two Republicans — activist Harry Niska and former Rep. Doug Wardlow — are already running for the office. Democratic Rep. John Lesch was running but dropped out on Friday.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. It’s not often you get to watch a major corporation publicly try to pull out of a self-inflicted nosedive, but that’s exactly what the National Football League attempted to do this week. The last two seasons have been a time of shrinking viewership for the league that “owns a day of the week,” as they saying goes, and that negatively impacts the bottom line. So the NFL came up with a solution to what they see as the problem. Starting this season, the NFL will fine teams with players who don’t stand for the national anthem. Whether or not those teams fine the actual players who refuse to stand is up to them, but the team will also be penalized, which could cost some teams some games. If that isn’t enough to at least give activist players pause – harming their teammates – nothing will. In a smart move, the league will not punish players who don’t go out on the field for the anthem, the fines only apply to players visible to the public as the song is sung. This offers a compromise to players who desperately need to be known for “doing something.” Liberals were, naturally, outraged. That’s where they live these days. Their arguments varied, but the basics were the players have a right to protest and the league was simply caving to pressure brought by President Donald Trump and “right-wingers too dumb to realize what the players were actually protesting in the name of profit.” I was asked to write the opposing view for USA Today on this subject. In that piece I wrote, “The idea that the NFL is only implementing its new national anthem policy because of falling ratings and public pressure is exactly how businesses work. No business exists to employ people; they exist to make as much money as possible.” Allowing employees to engage in “on the clock” activities that harm the business would be suicide. The liberals did not care. The league is “punishing dissent,” they cried. No, the league is punishing insubordination that is harming the company they work for. In most businesses that would get you fired, and your firing would be absolutely justified. “Fining teams whose players kneel during the anthem isn’t ‘punishing dissent,’ it’s the people who sign the front of the players’ sizable checks exerting the authority inherent in any employer/employee relationship,” I argued. Having held more jobs in my life than anyone you likely know, more than 70, I know this relationship all too well. In one of the record stores I worked in as a kid I was required to wear a tie. It made no sense to me then (still really doesn’t), but it was corporate policy so I did it. It’s not as though I didn’t have a choice, I didn’t have to work there. I chose to work there, so I had to follow their rules. “It’s not like we’re selling insurance,” I argued. But my boss didn’t care, his hands were tied. It was the policy. I didn’t own a tie, my father didn’t own a tie, and didn’t know how to tie a tie, so I wore sweaters, which was the only exception to the policy. But when I wore a V-neck sweater to work, the t-shirt clearly showed that didn’t have on a tie, I was sent home. I knew the rules, and I tried to test them. The company won because I worked for them. There were a lot of people willing to do my job, working in a record store was the “cool job” in the mall, but they were the only record store willing to hire me. I learned. I was making minimum wage, not the millions of dollars NFL players rake in, and every penny I earned was the difference between being able to fill up my gas tank or go out with friends. In other words, I needed that job until I found another one. Players, if they’re so offended by the idea of having to act in accordance with professional standards while doing their jobs, presumably have a nice pile of money to fall back on. They are under no obligation to continue working under conditions they see as silencing their voices. But I’d ask you this: how many NFL player-led protest marches have you seen during the off season, on any issue? It’s not like they couldn’t get media attention if they wanted it. There may have been a few, some players may have attended other protests, but if this is something players, by and large, feel so strongly about, why did their involvement appear to end when the season did? If, as liberals say, the “protests” weren’t about the national anthem, but about something they feel strongly about, why do they only take place during the song during the season? In this case, it was about the anthem. Liberals wanted something that would stand out, get attention; they wanted to shock. But, as I wrote in USA Today, “What the protesting players don’t seem to grasp is if you protest during something, your protest is viewed as being against that thing. If you protest during the national anthem, your protest will be seen as being disrespectful to the anthem. The method overrides the message.” They alienated their audience, chased away customers. It didn’t hurt their bottom line, they have contracts, but it did hurt their employer’s bottom line. That’s why there are new rules. Those rules may or may not stop the kneeling, but they’re unlikely to bring back the fans. At least not anytime soon. People took this personally, as it was intended to be. And that’s the real problem the NFL is facing – football has been targeted by liberals for destruction. Football is a violent, highly competitive sport – in other words, it’s masculine, which is why liberals despise it. No amount of penalties and fines are going to change that. Like so many of our institutions these days, the NFL, if you’ll excuse the expression, is being F-ed by the Ls. Note: This problem in the NFL is one of the topics covered in my book, Outrage, INC: How the Liberal Mob Ruined Science, Journalism, and Hollywood. It’s in chapter 10, “Millionaire Victims.” The book comes out June 19th, preorder a copy today. You’ll like it, I swear.
One Pennsylvania teen is upset that administrators at her high school shot down her request to graduate in her black and gold U.S. Army sash as it “didn'’t match school colors,” though she has signed enlistment papers and is headed to boot camp in August. Despite her frustration, when Toni Kress attends graduation at Central Valley High School in Beaver County on June 1, she intends to respect school rules. MEMORIAL DAY 2018: LARGEST PARADES IN THE US “People are saying I’m going to be a rule breaker, but I have no intention of doing that at all. If the school says I'm not going to wear it, I’m not going to wear it. I'm not going to disrespect the school like that,” the senior said on “Fox & Friends” on May 29. “But if I do have a chance, I’ll wear it off stage.” Her father, Wayne Kress, a U.S. Air Force veteran, voiced similar sentiments. “I’m very disappointed in the school,” he agreed. "She worked hard for this. She went through the ROTC program through the school. In today's world where we have kids out there eating Tide pods, she's willing to stand up and fight for her country.” Though Kress claims there is no mention in the school handbook of any rules that would bar her from wearing the military sash on the big day with her powder blue graduation gown, Principal Shawn McCreary has other thoughts. “Our graduation is a formal ceremony,” McCreary recently told The Times. “We do not permit students to wear anything on their gowns that depicts what their future plans may be.” He also added that students must wear the standard gown, and those who graduate with highest honors are awarded a sash. National Honor Society members, too, can sport a gold cord and a pin. McCreary said that students entering the military are individually recognized by name, and a medley of military service songs will play during the graduation ceremony. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS “I think we do a very good job at our commencement ceremony honoring the past, present and future military members,” he said. Despite the controversy, Kress is excited for all that is ahead. “I am really stoked to serve my country, it's been my dream since I was a kid,” she told Fox and Friends. Just days ago, in Nebraska, another high school senior spoke out for being denied the request to wear her Army sash at graduation as well.
Denmark on Thursday joined the growing list of European countries that have banned face-covering clothing in public, including burqas, niqabs, and other Islamic veils. The new law, which passed with a vote of 75 to 30 with 74 absentees, outlaws all face coverings except for those with a “recognizable purpose,” such as a scarf in cold weather or a motorcycle helmet, according to the Associated Press. The Danish government said that the law is not aimed at any one particular religion and that it does not ban religious head coverings like yarmulkes and turbans, though Danish leaders have stated that the niqab and burqa do not belong in Denmark. “Parliament has clearly stated that the burqa and niqab do not belong in Denmark. They are incompatible with Danish culture and the foundations on which Denmark is built,” said Danish People’s Party spokesman Martin Henriksen, according to The Local dk. When asked whether it was in line with Danish values to outlaw clothing choices, Henriksen said it is “always Danish to protect Denmark.” TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed Henriksen said that while individual liberties must be protected in Denmark, Danes must also do what they can to combat an Islamic ideology that, in his view, would see many more rights than just clothing choices stripped away from the Danish people. “Of course, we have individual freedoms we must protect. But some people use them to promote an ideology that, if they are successful, will mean many more lose their freedoms,” Henriksen said. Denmark joins the European countries of Belgium, France, Austria, Germany, Bulgaria, Latvia, Kosovo, which have each enacted legislation that bans Islamic face veils to varying degrees for purposes of safety and security. Amnesty International’s Europe director Gauri van Gulik decried the new law, claiming that it violates women’s rights. Do you agree with this ban? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “This ban will have a particularly negative impact on Muslim women who choose to wear the niqab or burqa,” Gulik said, according to The Guardian. “While some specific restrictions on the wearing of full-face veils for the purposes of public safety may be legitimate, this blanket ban is neither necessary nor proportionate and violates the rights to freedom of expression and religion” “If the intention of this law was to protect women’s rights, it fails abjectly. Instead, the law criminalises women for their choice of clothing and in so doing flies in the face of those freedoms Denmark purports to uphold,” Gulik added. Denmark’s law will take effect August 1. Justice Minister Søren Pape Poulsen said that police officers will use “common sense” in enforcing the law and will not forcibly remove any article of clothing from offenders. “I do not want police officers pulling items of clothing off people — burqas or otherwise. That is not going to happen,” Poulsen said, according to The Local. “If they live nearby, they will be asked to go home.” If they do not live nearby, offenders will be asked to accompany officers to a police station where they will stay until a family member comes to take them home. First-time offenders will be fined $156. Repeat offenders can incur fines of up to $1,122.80 and a potential maximum jail sentence of six months. RELATED: In Vietnam, Freedom of Expression Is a ‘National Security Offense’ A version of this article appeared on The Daily Caller News Foundation website. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
A Texas teen who has maintained above-average grades while facing homelessness and abuse was given a reason to smile earlier this week when a man battling a brain tumor gifted her with a car. Sionna Brenn, a senior at a Houston-area high school, was working her shift at a Starbucks on Wednesday when Charlie Jabaley popped up out of a dumpster with balloons. Behind Jabaley, who left his successful music management company following his diagnosis, was a new Toyota Corolla with a big red bow on it, Fox 26 Houston reported. NEVADA GIRL THROWS OUT FIRST PITCH AT ROCKIES GAME USING ROBOTIC HAND “More than anything, glory to God because I wouldn’t be here without Him,” Brenn, who hopes to study dentistry at University of Texas San Antonio next year, told Fox 26 Houston. Brenn arrived in the U.S. from Ethiopia and was adopted at 9 years old, but she said the situation was abusive. She said her belief in God helped her through her darkest times. Her story reached Jabaley, who is currently on a cross-country “Dream Machine Tour” looking for people to help. Jabaley, who at the height of his career was 2 Chainz manager, started his mission after discovering that the brain tumor he has had since childhood started growing and stopped responding to treatment. “Everywhere we go, we’re looking for people who have dreams and how we can help them,” Jabaley said. As part of his journey to help others, Jabaley has dropped 130 pounds and completed several marathons.
It's not just the weather that's heating up as we move into spring. The cost of a newly constructed home is rising as the housing market enters its peak buying months. The median price of a new home climbed to $337,200 in March, according to a joint report by the U.S. Census Bureau and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. That's up nearly 3.5% from February and 4.8% from a year earlier. “Home prices tend to go up in the spring and the summer, because the types of homes selling are different than what’s selling in the fall and winter," says realtor.com® Chief Economist Danielle Hale. "They tend to be larger and more family-oriented homes that sell for a little bit more.” New homes are also quite a bit more expensive than existing homes, which have been previously been lived in. Existing homes were a median $250,400 in March, about 34.7% less than a new residence, according to the National Association of Realtors®. That's because builders have to contend with regulatory delays and a limited supply of land and labor, all of which drive up prices. Find homes for sale on Please enter a valid zipcode The number of new homes sold and for sale also increased 4% from the prior month and represented another 8.8% bump from the prior year to hit about 694,000 in March, according to the report. That's a good sign, as the country is currently undergoing a shortage of homes for sale, one of the main factors pushing prices up. (Realtor.com® looked only at the seasonally adjusted numbers in the report. These have been smoothed out over 12 months to account for seasonal fluctuations.) "We’re just getting into the heart of spring buying season," Hale says. "While we have a lot of buyers in the market now, we expect the number of buyers to go up in the next few months.” New-home sales made up 11% of all residential real estate sales in March, according to Hale. While that may sound good, in a normal market where there are enough homes to go around, they would account for 14% to 15% of all closings. The most new homes sold and for sale in March were in the South, at about 371,000. That was up 0.8% from February and 10.4% from a year ago. The region was followed by the West, where about 222,000 were sold or on the market. That's a 28.3% surge from the previous month and another 24.7% jump from the previous year. In the Midwest, another 82,000 new homes were sold or for sale, down 2.4% both monthly and annually. The Northeast had the fewest new homes that either were for sale or closed on at just 19,000. That's down a whopping 54.8% from the prior month and represented a 52.5% drop from the prior month.
Joshua, Bethany and Manny are honoring their late mother in the most beautiful way: with a song. After growing up “in a lush musical backdrop of melody and verse,” the sibling trio formed a band called “We Three” where they can share their musical talents with the world. Joshua plays the piano and drums (sometimes simultaneously), Bethany plays the bass, and Manny plays the guitar. However, the talented siblings are able to switch instruments to best fit the needs of their songs. “Their self-written songs cover all the strands of emotion, from melancholic to the motivated, and the mountains of love that beg to be celebrated that lie in between,” their website says. We Three most recently auditioned for “America’s Got Talent” and they blew away the audience and the judges with their beautiful music. TRENDING: Mother Cries Tears of Joy After Daughter Who Went Missing 24 Years Ago is Found “Sadly their Mother passed away just over two years ago, but what might normally devastate and distract had the opposite effect in unifying the already intensely strong bond that makes We Three a musical rarity,” their website said. Their powerful musical tribute to their mother is titled, “Heaven’s Not Too Far.” “It’s about our mother who passed away from cancer about two years ago,” Manny explained. “It’s a song written from her perspective kind of talking to us in her last month.” The lyrics of their song resonated with the entire audience. There was not a dry eye as Manny and Bethany harmonized to the powerful song. Backstage, their father cried with the show’s host, Tyra Banks. RELATED: Nordstrom Manager Shows Up at Hospital with Gifts for Mother and Sick Son Judge Mel B. was visibly crying during the entire performance. “I lost my father over a year ago to cancer, so I felt like that song was just meant for me and my dad was singing to me,” she said. “I just felt it. I’m shaking. It was really, really good, thank you.” Heidi Klum added, “I love your voices, I love how you harmonize together. You had me from the very first second. I love the song, beautiful song.” “We all have parents and we are parents, some of us,” Howie Mandel said. “This was so strong. The best thing I can say is … I felt it.” The judges sent them on to the next round, all four of them voting “yes.” As Simon Cowell said, “I honestly think it’s the start of something big here.” Submit your story here, and subscribe to our best uplifting stories here. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The current landscape of infection control is rife with a growing trend of microorganisms that antibiotics cannot treat — and antibiotic shortages are worsening the problem. The Dutch non-profit organization Access to Medicine published a white paper titled “Shortages, stockouts and scarcity,” which claims that the lacking supply of appropriate antibiotics means that many infections are being prescribed inferior replacements, allowing many bacteria to develop defenses that will make them much harder to cure — and even potentially untreatable — in the long term. Furthermore, the lack of supply can lead to price spikes, which further encourage patients to avoid the drugs they actually need. Access to Medicine Foundation Executive Director and report co-author Dr. Jayasree Iyer said, “the right products need to reach the right patients at the right time.” But things are not looking good right now. The report mentions benzathine penicillin G, which — as of 2015 — was completely unavailable in 39 countries. It is the only drug known to combat the spread of syphilis between mother and child. Another example is the intravenous antibiotic and antibacterial combination piperacillin-tazobactam, which has drastically declined in availability after the Chinese factory that produced raw materials used in the medication was damaged in an explosion. These are far from the only shortages, however. The FDA is currently reporting more than 100 drug shortages, a fair amount of them critical antibiotics. The paper says that “antibiotic supply is patchy, complex and at risk of collapsing.” And a large part of that problem is money. “Where on-patent antibiotics collectively generate $4.7bn in global sales annually,” the authors say, “a single cancer medicine can generate twice that revenue in one year.” Because of that disparity, pharmaceutical companies are hesitant to invest in the development of better antibiotics — especially with the risk that they will become useless if resistance is developed. Consultant Antimicrobial Pharmacist and Royal Pharmaceutical Society spokesman Philip Howard agreed: “The ongoing shortages of current antibiotics are probably as large a problem as the lack of new antibiotics in development,” he said. “Until there is better transparency in the whole supply chain, then predicting global and local shortages will continue to be unpredictable. Whilst lessons can be learned from managing the HIV, TB and malaria treatments supply chain, it cannot be under-estimated how problematic a global solution will be due to the wide range and volume of antibiotics used.” Dr. Michael Blank is very concerned by the report. “It leaves me with a chill that, despite having a diagnosis, I might have poor quality antibiotics,” he said, “or worse still, the wrong antibiotic that doesn’t work and may drive resistance, all because of an inadequate supply chain.”
Unfortunately, to many, Memorial Day translates to “an extra day off from work” and not much more. But thanks to a viral photo from an Atlanta Braves baseball game, Americans are being reminded of what the day is really about. In the picture, which has since been retweeted more than 5,000 times, a Parkview High School U.S. Marine Corps JROTC member is seen standing at attention, in the rain, beside the stadium’s POW-MIA Chair of Honor. Next to him, a fan in a red raincoat holds an umbrella over his head to shield him from the weather. The Atlanta Braves’ official Twitter account shared the photo, accompanied with one simple, but perfect, word: Respect. Another attendee also caught the heartwarming gesture on camera. They sacrifice so much for us, we can sacrifice for them too!!! #RespectOurMilitary pic.twitter.com/hOHuc3zLGH — Braves Chelle (@chellebelle011) May 28, 2018 The POW-MIA Chair of Honor was installed last year in SunTrust Park to commemorate all the American soldiers who have been unaccounted for since World War I. Next to the empty seat sits a plaque which reads: "Since World War I, more than 92,000 American soldiers are unaccounted for. This unoccupied seat is dedicated to the memory of these brave men and woman and to the sacrifices made in serving this country." The picture of the dedicated JRTOC member and compassionate fan was taken during a recognition ceremony during the game’s third inning. The young man wasn't the only JRTOC member to offer his respects that day, either. Literal goosebumps. Love my team ?? — Daniel Krentz (Danny Disco) (@dikrentz) May 28, 2018 This is what patriotism is all about..Respect!! — hectorkvs (@tomycaffe) May 29, 2018 My heart swells with pride. — Gene Clark (@clark_etc) May 29, 2018 A proud American moment ???? — Richard White (@LlcWhite) May 29, 2018 A proud moment indeed.
Where to Stream: Jimmy Kimmel Live More Options Roseanne Barr has made her fair share of enemies in the last 24 hours (and, frankly, in the last 20-odd years), but a surprising player has now stepped up and is asking that we go a little easier on the disgraced sitcom star. Jimmy Kimmel, who poked fun at Roseanne‘s cancelation on his own show last night, took to Twitter this afternoon in what appeared to be an attempt to diffuse the social media firestorm following her own bizarre tweet spree and attacks from users far and wide: While Kimmel seemed to have the best intentions at heart – Barr apparently does suffer from bipolar disorder, ADHD, and multiple personality disorder – celebrities, writers, and more quickly called him out for what read to some as an attempt to justify her racist comments. Mental health advocates and individuals with mental illness also called out Kimmel, warning him that it was dangerous to blame racism on her disorders: Meanwhile, Barr has spent the afternoon backpedaling on previous comments, claiming that “one stupid joke” should not tarnish her hard-earned reputation and retweeting those who have come to her defense: Barr has not yet acknowledged Kimmel’s tweet, but it seems like it’s only a matter of time. (Some have pointed out that there’s also the possibility that Kimmel was kidding, but this seems incredibly unlikely). At this point, Kimmel will probably end up addressing the controversy on his show tonight. And so the Roseanne saga continues.
President Trump's announcement that he would sit down with Kim Jong Un came as a global shock. His cancellation of the meeting, not so much. You didn't have to be a master diplomat to discern that things were rapidly going downhill between the two countries. North Korea may well have backed him into a corner. And a president who places a premium on projecting strength was not going to stand for that. Amid indications that Kim might back out of the June 12 summit in Singapore, Trump decided to strike first. While experts analyze the verbal sniping that led up to the cancellation, I think that misses the larger point. When two world leaders want to meet, they ignore divisive rhetoric and sit down together. That was certainly the case with all those Soviet summits from Nikita Khrushchev to Mikhail Gorbachev. Still, the atmosphere turned chilly from the moment that Kim objected to the U.S.-South Korea military exercises, which he'd previously said were fine. Then came North Korean objections to televised comments by John Bolton when the national security adviser said the administration would follow the Libya model for denuclearization—not exactly appealing words to the North Koreans, since Muammar Qaddafi wound up dead. After Vice President Pence told Fox's Martha MacCallum that "this will only end like the Libya model ended if Kim Jong Un doesn't make a deal," the North’s foreign vice minister called Pence a "political dummy" and said it was up to the White House "whether the U.S. will meet us at a meeting room or encounter us at nuclear-to-nuclear showdown." That may have been the last straw for Trump, who said earlier this week there was a "substantial chance" that the summit would not come off. Yesterday he pulled the plug. No matter that North Korea had just destroyed its nuclear test site, though some experts believe it had been damaged beyond repair. Donald Trump often walks away from the table, or threatens to, as he did as a New York businessman. He has spoken of pulling out of NAFTA several times. He vowed to pull out of the Iranian nuclear deal before finally doing so. This is, to him, a negotiating style, all part of what he once called the art of the deal. He is, after all, the man who repeatedly denounced Kim as Little Rocket Man and threatened to destroy his country if necessary before becoming his negotiating partner. Indeed, Trump’s letter to Kim contained some conciliatory notes: "Someday, I look very much forward to meeting you ... If you change your mind having to do with this most important summit, please do not hesitate to call me or write." That is called leaving the door open. Some skeptics believed that Trump was giving Kim the world stature conferred by such a meeting without getting anything in return. Others said the U.S. wasn't ready for a nuclear summit, that enough groundwork hadn't been laid for successful talks. In this view, Trump was more interested in the optics of a splashy summit, and a potential Nobel Prize, than in doing the arduous work of negotiating a verifiable disarmament in exchange for the elimination of economic sanctions. If that's true, the cancellation might buy more time for a successful summit down the road—if such a meeting ever materializes.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Jesus said the meek shall inherit the earth. But today, could it be that the “geeks” of Silicon Valley are instead trying to inherit the earth? Brent Bozell, head of the Media Research Center (MRC), just released a blockbuster report on the problem of censorship by big tech Silicon Valley companies, like YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, and Google. The report is called "CENSORED! How Online Media Companies Are Suppressing Conservative Speech." The MRC points out, "Like it or not, social media is the communication form of the future---not just in the U.S., but worldwide. Just Facebook and Twitter combined reach 1.8 billion people. More than two-thirds of all Americans (68 percent) use Facebook. YouTube is pushing out TV as the most popular place to watch video. Google is the No. 1 search engine in both the U.S. and the world." This is not just a war of ideas, observes the MRC: "It's a war against ideas. It's a clear effort to censor the conservative worldview from the public conversation." My first exposure to this censorship against Christian and conservative content online involves David Kyle Foster, a former homosexual healed through Jesus. He makes high-quality testimonial videos of lives healed from sexual brokenness through Christ. Foster said on my radio show, "We had been on Vimeo for almost nine years. We spent a lot of money establishing our presence there, and they didn't complain about our content at all. In fact, our content is always respectful, kind, compassionate. It's intended to bring healing to people who are looking for healing." But then, Vimeo pulled all 800 of Foster's videos down one day. Foster says, "They invented this fiction that we were harassing homosexuals, we were demeaning to them---none of this is true." This type of suppression of conservative or Christian content in social media is happening a lot lately. I spoke recently with political commentator Ben Shapiro for an upcoming D. James Kennedy Ministries television special on this whole issue. Shapiro noted there's a difference between a platform and a publisher. His outfit, DailyWire.com, is a publisher. They are responsible for the content they publish. In contrast, Facebook claims to be a neutral platform where others get to publish their own content. But in gearing their platform to suppress conservative content and promote liberal material, they are acting as a publisher, determining content, while claiming to be merely a platform. Even Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook, testified before Congress last month: “I understand where that concern is coming from because Facebook and the tech industry are located in Silicon Valley, which is an extremely left-leaning place.” Fighting such bias, conservative radio host Dennis Prager sued YouTube and their parent company, Google, last year for censoring his Prager University videos. Someone might dismiss all of this with a shrug. "Who cares?" The problem is the extent to which these big tech firms are shaping the political, cultural, religious landscape. Not just in America, but around the world. Recently, Adam Ford sold The Babylon Bee, a Christian satire website, citing his discomfort with these gatekeeper issues: “As a follower of Christ, I am primarily concerned with glorifying God, loving my neighbor, and spreading the gospel…I think the centralization of the internet is one of the greatest threats to the spread of the gospel, and the well-being of mankind, that we face today….It is tyranny over information. It’s a handful of people who are hostile to the Christian message and the plight of the individual deciding what’s good and bad, true and false….I am no conspiracy theorist; never have been. From where I sit, this danger is as clear as day.” What can be done? Steven Andrew, a computer programmer in Silicon Valley, told my radio audience that he used to have five million Facebook followers a month. But after the election of Trump, he noticed a huge drop in those he was able to speak to on Facebook---down to about 97,000 people a month. He told me, "Facebook is blocking 98 percent of the people we used to reach." Knowing how the game works, how the algorithms are being programmed to skew in favor of liberal over conservative content, Andrew is working on providing a new social network platform for those who love God and country. His conservative alternative to Facebook is usa.life, and his search engine, a conservative counterpart to Google, is 1776free.com. Shall the geeks inherit the earth? No, for Jesus Christ has decreed that that honor shall be bestowed on the meek (the godly---who exhibit "power under control," the definition of meekness). In the meantime, in the battle of ideas and in the attempt to get the Word out, conservatives would do well to recognize and to counteract the massive online censorship that is happening in our time.
The employment situation in the United States is increasingly positive for foreign-born workers, while native-born Americans’ job gains are growing at a much smaller rate. As the U.S. continues to import more than 1.5 million legal immigrants a year, job gains between April 2017 and April 2018 reveal that much of the economic opportunity is going to foreign-born workers rather than native-born Americans. For example, job gains for foreign-born workers grew about 3.6 percent, year-to-year labor data reveals. Meanwhile, native-born workers’ job gains grew at a measly less than one percent during that same time period. This means that employment for foreign-born workers grew about four times faster than native-born Americans between April of last year and last month. Likewise, the foreign-born working population grew about 3.8 percent in the last year, while the native-born American working population has only grown by about 0.5 percent in that same time period. At the same time, the foreign-born population has continued to boom in the U.S. due to mass legal immigration, whereby more than 1.5 million immigrants are admitted to the country every year. There are now about 44 million foreign-born residents living in the U.S., with the majority coming from Mexico, as Breitbart News has reported. Legal and illegal immigrants now make up close to 14 percent of the entire U.S. population — roughly one out of every eight American residents.
Roseanne Barr is out of a job — as well she should be. What she had to say about Valerie Jarrett was insensitive at best and beyond disgusting at worst. Apologizing was the very least she could do. However, one thing rang clear after Barr’s firing — namely, the media’s hypocrisy when it comes to Jimmy Kimmel. Kimmel is one of the most celebrated men in late night, in part because he’s very much a member of the liberal elite. He says what they think, and says it from one of the biggest stages in Hollywood. He says it on his nightly monologues. He says it during interviews. Yet, Kimmel has a very different past — one that he’s never apologized for. Before he landed his late-night gig, he was one of the hosts and people behind “The Man Show,” a turn-of-the-millennium program that hasn’t aged well in the era of #MeToo and political correctness. We’ve highlighted some of Kimmel’s other cringe-inducing antics before, but on this occasion, we’d like to point out yet another skit — this one done in blackface — which he’s never been held to account for. TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover The skit involved Karl Malone, then a player for the NBA’s Utah Jazz. Malone was known to speak his mind on a number of subjects, often without a filter, and that provided the media with a but of humor. However, this bizarre sketch involving Malone and what he believes about aliens — and namely, where they probe — goes a bit too far in mocking not only Malone but also his manner of speaking in a way that could very obviously be considered racist. Has Kimmel apologized for it, though? Of course not, even though it’s minstrelsy through and through. Take a look: Yes, “white people being deducted by alien” and “that’s a d— thing.” Hilarious. And by hilarious, I mean racist. Do you think Jimmy Kimmel should apologize for this skit? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Kimmel, by the way, gets paid $15 million a year, according to CNBC. Yet, he hasn’t apologized for this kind of thing, or for any of the sexual harassment he engaged in on the old show. In fact, it’s not like he’s stopped this kind of behavior. Earlier this year he was forced to apologize after using homophobic remarks in a debate against Sean Hannity on Twitter. RELATED: Facebook Co-Founder’s Wife Bankrolling Fake News Promoter Shaun King’s Project At no time did Kimmel face any official censure for any of this. ABC didn’t suspend him or dock his pay, despite the fact that what he did was pretty awful and seemingly worthy of an official response. So while Barr was vilified for her remark — perhaps deservedly so — Kimmel got off scot-free. It just goes to show that in Hollywood, what you do isn’t as important as what your politics are. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Old tweets have burned college athletes’ draft stock in recent years. Now the epidemic may have spread to the front office, where it could lead to the downfall of the top executive of one of the NBA’s up-and-coming teams. see also 76ers investigating 'serious' Twitter allegations against GM PHILADELPHIA — The Philadelphia 76ers have started an investigation into... 76ers president and general manager Bryan Colangelo is under fire for allegedly leaking private medical information and trashing a few of his own players and other executives through burner accounts on Twitter The news broke late Tuesday night in a story posted by The Ringer, and by Wednesday morning, the 76ers had announced they had launched an investigation into the claims. “The allegations are serious and we have commenced an independent investigation into the matter,” the team said in a statement. “We will report the results of that investigation as soon as it is concluded.” The accounts have often thrown insults at 76ers star Joel Embiid and fellow first-round picks Markelle Fultz and Nerlens Noel; pleaded with the media to inquire about Jahlil Okafor failing a physical that ruined a potential trade, which had never been publicly reported; criticized head coach Brett Brown, former GM Sam Hinkie and Raptors president Masai Ujiri (Colangelo’s successor in Toronto); and defended Colangelo through it all, even about details as petty as his collar size. Embiid, who poked some fun at the report on Twitter and went back and liked some of the burner account’s tweets about him, later said he didn’t believe the story because “that would just be insane.” “Someone’s out to get me,” Conangelo told Yahoo Sports’ Jordan Schultz. “This is clearly not me.” More clues emerged Wednesday, with The Athletic reporting past tweets from one of the alleged burner accounts were sent out at the same time as Colangelo was holding a press conference on Feb. 11, 2017. A 76ers fan account, “Did the Sixers win?” also showed screen shots of a password recovery for one of the accounts, and the last two digits of the phone number linked to the account were the same as Colangelo’s wife’s number. Colangelo confirmed that one of the Twitter accounts was his — using the handle @phila1234567 — but denied he had anything to do with the other four in question. Curiously, though, right after The Ringer contacted the 76ers to inquire about two of the Twitter accounts, the other three switched from public to private. see also 76ers GM became the ultimate Twitter laughingstock On a night when a general manager was accused of... There have not been any tweets sent from the account Colangelo confirmed was his, but the other four have been active at various times over the past two years since April 2016, when Colangelo was named president of basketball operations and GM of the 76ers. “While I have never posted anything whatsoever on social media, I have used the @Phila1234567 Twitter account referenced in this story to monitor our industry and other current events,” Colangelo said in a statement to The Ringer. “This storyline is disturbing to me on many levels, as I am not familiar with any of the other accounts that have been brought to my attention, nor do I know who is behind them or what their motives may be in using them.” But the sentiments shared in many of the tweets from the burner accounts are consistent with Colangelo’s private thinking, according to ESPN’s Adrian Wojnarowski, who tweeted, “Those tweets reflected not only private team biz, but launched personal beefs/jealousies/frustrations that he’s shared inside and outside 76ers.” All five of the accounts displayed a similar pattern of tweets, likes and follows. Users frequently followed by the burner accounts included 76ers players, front office members, beat reporters of the 76ers and Raptors (Colangelo spent seven years in Toronto as president/GM) and Canadian high school and University of Chicago basketball — where Colangelo’s son Mattia played. Colangelo’s future with the 76ers may be dependent on the results of the team’s investigation. Oddsmaker Bovada already has pinned his departure as the likeliest outcome, offering 1-3 odds that he won’t be team president at the start of next season, as opposed to 2-1 odds that he will.
Readers: I think you’ll get a kick out of this letter from a prison guard on the serious scam I’ve been writing about regarding prisoners and their medications. This is also about squirrels with a drug problem. Mr. Crudele: I retired after 27 years in New York State Corrections, of which 22 were as a Sergeant. So many of the state facilities actually have social workers and case workers whose full time job is to get inmates approved (for disability payments)! We laugh and call the front of the Medical Building “Skittles Land,” since, in the snow, the thousands and thousands of mental health drugs that are either spit out, are coloring the ground. Or the inmate sells them to other inmates to get high. My last facility was Midstate Correctional, and I’m here to tell you we had problems for years with squirrels and skunks eating the damn medications. We’d have tailless squirrels from running through the razor wire to get the meds and we have literally had an officer attacked on the walkway by a seemingly stoned squirrel. The scam gets better. For example, we get a 65-year-old Spanish male who is non-English speaking and let’s say he has no formal education. When they go through reception (after being admitted), they are given a battery of tests to determine jhis education level. If they have less than a 6th grade reading level, inmates are forced to attend classes. Why? The Feds reimburse the state for the “student’s” lunch.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. With consumer confidence at a 17-year high and economic prospects looking relatively strong, congressional Democrats have taken to grousing about the gas pump as a midterm strategy. "These higher oil prices are translating directly to soaring gas prices," declared Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, "something we know disproportionately hurts middle- and lower-income people." If this is true, then why have Democrats spent the past two decades advocating for policies that artificially spike fossil fuel prices? If higher energy costs hurt Americans -- and thank you, senator, for conceding this point -- why have liberals favored increasing gas taxes, inhibiting exploration for fossil fuels (including a ban on fracking for less environmentally damaging gas in a number of places) and capping imports? If higher gas prices disproportionately impact the working class and poor, then why do Democrats push for national schemes designed to create false demand through a fabricated marketplace? Not a single reporter asked the Democrats who were performing at a press conference in front of an Exxon filling station the other day if higher gas prices might incentivize Americans to switch to subsidized "alternative" energy sources -- even though this happens to be the prevailing theory driving much of their energy policy. Shouldn't Democrats be celebrating the fact that fewer Americans were driving on Memorial Day? I thought we were facing an apocalyptic situation here. Schumer conveniently blamed the United States' exiting of the Iran nuclear deal for the spike -- an agreement he supposedly opposed. Democratic Sen. Brian Schatz, a self-styled "climate hawk," claimed, "There's a straight line between Trump's policies and the price of gasoline." We can only now assume he believes the prevalence of cheap fossil fuels is imperative in the effort to alleviate poverty and create wealth. I concur. But don't worry about Iran, senator; there's plenty of oil elsewhere. Politico maintains that Democrats have stolen a page from the "GOP playbook to attack Trump," which is true, though the difference is that Republicans generally support proposals that make gas more affordable. The Obama administration, for example, benefited greatly from a recalcitrant GOP Congress's committed obstruction of an untold number of terrible initiatives. We should recall that the energy secretary openly wrestled with ways "to boost the price of gasoline to the levels in Europe." When Obama was asked in 2008 if the $4-a-gallon gas prices at the time were beneficial for the American economy, the presidential candidate prevaricated, saying, "I think that I would have preferred a gradual adjustment." What is the gradual adjustment Democrats prefer today? A slow and steady move to $7? Right now U.S. gas prices are only a fraction of those in European nations, and yet Democrats acted as if Trump had triggered Armageddon when he decided to leave the Paris climate agreement. Do you want us to follow Norway's lead or not? Democrats had opposed the opening of pipeline projects, of new drilling, and allowed the Environmental Protection Agency to transform from a regulatory agency that was protecting the environment to a place where the administration could implement backdoor legislation that American voters had rejected. If Democrats hadn't lost power in 2010, we might be living with those $4 per gallon prices today. To understand how this policy manifests, just look at California, where gas prices are consistently among the highest in the nation -- despite the fact that there are no constraining geographic or economic impediments to cheap energy. Last year, the legislature pushed through another gas tax (and an even larger one on diesel) and extra "fees" to help make one of the most regressive energy policies in the country even more onerous and expensive. Now, obviously the entire spectacle is for show. Schumer says, "It's time for the president to buck his oil executive buddies," because lots of ignorant voters probably believe that the price of crude oil can be controlled by a few nefarious CEOs. The only question I have is: Why don't these profitmongering oligarchs keep prices high all the time? Of course, in the real world, summertime typically brings a spike in prices -- and despite Schumer's forecast of "soaring gas prices," prices are already dropping again. Given the fungibility of commodities and the track record of the Middle East, we'll likely always have to deal with some painful fluctuations in the price of energy, regardless of what we do at home. But relying on market forces has, by every conceivable measurement, had a better track record than price controls. So while Democrats have learned to be less open with their intentions, the policies speak for themselves. What do they plan on doing about oil prices when they win the election? Yell at some executives? Why doesn't anyone with access ask these concerned senators if they believe cheap fossil fuels is preferable? Or do they still support policies that spike energy prices on purpose?
Want to upgrade your earring game for spring? The choice is clear: Try lucite! Designer Alison Chemla of Alison Lou — known for whimsical wares such as emoji pendants and mushroom-shaped stud earrings — just dropped a new capsule collection of hoop earrings called LOUCITE. Hollywood is already obsessed. The sheer stunners have only been out for a month, and they’ve already been worn by a smattering of stars, including Jennifer Lopez and Alicia Keys. As the collection’s famous fans have proved, the pieces are ultraversatile: They go just as well with a full-skirted feminine dress (à la Blake Lively) as they do with a retro, sporty windbreaker (as seen on Gabrielle Union). The small-size earrings go for $125, the medium for $145 and the largest for $165. You can also score a set of three pairs for $395, packaged in a chic, clear plastic tote. Stargazers, take note: Celeb-loved styles, including Selena Gomez’s small white pair, are currently on pre-order.
One-third of small businesses are raising wages in the tight economy, setting a record level of pay increases, says a new report by the National Federation of Independent Business. “A seasonally adjusted net 35 percent of small business owners reported increases in labor compensation as owners try to attract needed employees and retain those already on board,” said a press statement from the business group. “This month’s jobs report demonstrates that small business owners’ optimism is showing no signs of abating,” said a statement from Juanita Duggan, president and CEO of the NFIB. She continued: They are increasing compensation at record levels and are continuing to hire. Post tax-reform, concerns about taxes and regulations are taking a backseat to their worries over filling open positions and finding qualified candidates. The report adds to growing evidence that smaller businesses outside the Fortune 500 are being pressured to raise wages for hourly workers and blue-collar workers by President Donald Trump’s high-pressure, low-immigration economic policy. Those wage rises are likely to boost the GOP’s score in the November elections — unless the GOP stops the wage rise by passing an amnesty bill. For example, job-advertising firm Snag also reported good news from a survey of 1,000 employers: With record low unemployment at 3.9 percent, employers are vying to stay competitive with more employers willing to offer the maximum hourly wage they feel their business can afford (46 percent in 2018 versus 31 percent in 2017) rather than the minimum required by law (12 percent in 2018 versus 18 percent in 2017). The pressure is also pushing three out of four employers to offer wages of $11 or more: A result of this is that 74 percent plan to pay an hourly wage of at least $11, compared to last year when only 53 percent of employers planned to pay the same or more. The report also noted that more employers are using the federal E-Verify system to screen illegal immigrants from jobs. The survey said that “nearly 40 percent of employers plan to use E-Verify to evaluate summer applicants, up from 25 percent last year.” The NFIB’s monthly wage chart shows a sharp, four-month rise in project wage increases by NFIB members since Spring, amid a growing economy and following passage of the tax cut bill: The shortage of trained, reliable workers is a major cause of the rising wages, especially because businesses are beginning to poach workers from each other with offers of higher wages. According to the NFIB: While near record high levels of owners are hiring or trying to hire, 83 percent of respondents reported few or no qualified applicants for the positions they were trying to fill. Twenty-three percent of owners cited the difficulty of finding qualified workers as their Single Most Important Business Problem (up one point), the highest reading since 2000, and one point below the all-time survey high. Thirty-three percent of all owners reported job openings they could not fill in the current period, down two points but historically very high. Twelve percent reported using temporary workers, unchanged. Nationally, rising pressure for wages is causing investors and CEOs to escalate their demands for Congress to provide them with a huge new wave of foreign workers, either via a DACA amnesty or extra guest workers, such H-2B workers. The NFIB statement also included a plea for more workers: “While the small business economy is showing tremendous growth, difficulty finding qualified workers continues to be a notable issue,” said NFIB Chief Economist Bill Dunkelberg. “Temporary workers are filling some of these vacancies, but an increased availability of qualified workers would lead to more growth in employment.” However, millions of Americans have fallen out of the workforce since 2001 and 2008. Employers are reluctant to pull these workers back into the jobs, partly because they are often ill-trained and sometimes drug addicted or have criminal records. That reluctance is being overcome by the threat of rising wages. Business demands for more workers have turned into threats by donors and by threats GOP members who are elected in low-tech dairy districts. But many polls show the public overwhelmingly prefer immigration policies which bar companies from importing cheap foreign workers until Americans can get good jobs. So far, Trump has continued to demand large-scale immigration reforms and has resisted industry’s demands, aside from agreeing to 15,000 extra H-2B workers for seasonal business. “I think it’s time to get the whole package,” Trump told Fox News’ anchor Brian Kilmeade on May 24. “It’s not such a big deal, Brian. It’s time to get the whole package … We’re going to change the system — we have no choice for the good of our country.” Trump continued: Unless it includes a wall, and I mean a wall, a real wall, and unless it includes very strong border security, there’ll be no approvals from me because I have to either approve it or not … A [visa] lottery is ridiculous, you know. I mean, they take people from the lottery where you can imagine these countries are not putting their finest in that lottery, so I don’t like the lottery. Chain migration is a disaster, and you look at what’s going on where somebody comes in who’s bad and yet they’ll have 24 members of a family, not one of them do you want in this country. So chain migration is terrible, lottery is terrible … [and] we have to get rid of catch and release. Trump’s efforts to limit legal and illegal immigration is driving up wages and salaries for Americans in various locations and careers around the country. The beneficiaries include African-American bakers in Chicago, Latino restaurant workers in Monterey, Calif., disabled people in Missouri, high schoolers, resort workers in Hilton Head, construction workers, Superbowl workers, the garment industry, and workers at small businesses, and even Warren Buffett’s railroad workers. Four million Americans turn 18 each year and begin looking for good jobs in the free market. The Washington-imposed economic policy of economic growth via mass-immigration shifts wealth from young people towards older people, it floods the market with foreign labor, spikes profits and Wall Street values by cutting salaries for manual and skilled labor offered by blue-collar and white-collar employees. It also drives up real estate prices, widens wealth-gaps, reduces high-tech investment, increases state and local tax burdens, hurts kids’ schools and college education, pushes Americans away from high-tech careers, and sidelines at least 5 million marginalized Americans and their families, including many who are now struggling with opioid addictions.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. There are some people who need silence work, to write, read, or study. I’ve never been one of those people; I need a distraction to focus. That likely doesn’t make sense to you, unless you’re like me in that regard. As such, when I was in high school and college I needed the TV on to get anything done. That’s when I fell in love with cable news. It was the soundtrack to my TV candle as I studied, especially in college. From there it spread to all forms of news. That’s why it bothers me so much to see what it has become. In addition to the partisan spewings of left-wingers, much of the media is now a progressive hit-squad. Both for the liberal agenda and for sport, rather than conveying information, the media is as likely to attempt to destroy a person as they are to inform anyone. No, this isn’t about Rosanne. Such a massive wound like she suffered can only be self-inflicted. It is curious, however, how liberals turned what Rosanne did into an attack on President Trump. Blaming him for what others do is fast becoming a tradition of the media. It is not surprising how even Valerie Jarrett spun it into an attack on Trump. While she was the target of Rosanne’s attack, she is, at her core, a political hack. She ran to MSNBC and, without irony, blames Donald Trump for racism stemming from an offensive tweet on him while sitting on stage next to Al Sharpton. Perhaps Rosanne should have denied sending the tweet, or swear she had no memory of sending it like Jarrett’s other MSNBC stage-mate Joy Reid did when her past homophobic statements came to light recently. Liberal hypocrisy knows no bounds. But there were no innocent victims in that mess, politics rarely has any. That’s not always the case when the liberal hit-squad sets its sights on a target. Ivanka Trump, who also now resides in the political world, was on the receiving end of an attack from CNN because she had the audacity to post a photo of herself with her 2 year old son online. Her son has done nothing to anyone, ever. That she loves him is something every parent wants to celebrate. However, to liberals the mere existence of a human being with the last name Trump is enough to turn the rage meter up to 11. Who, you might ask, would attack the picture of a mother with her child? CNN’s Brianna Keilar. In a segment Monday, Keilar convened a panel of “journalists” to discuss the “backlash” to Ivanka posting that picture. And what was the “backlash”? That’s the weird thing about it – the segment cited nothing and no one, just the generic “backlash.” The “backlash,” as it was, came from random Twitter liberals (which is why they weren’t cited) upset that Ivanka would share that picture while illegal aliens are being separated from their illegal alien parents when they’re caught crossing the border. That, however, is the law. Thanks to the liberal 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ruling that children can’t be held in detention centers with their parents while they wait for a hearing, those families have to be separated. But liberals never let the facts stand in the way of a good smear-job. The pointless segment was simply an attack on Ivanka Trump for the “sin” of working for her father. Smears like this, ones involving innocent children, used to off limits. But nothing is off limits now to the left. Ivanka is fair game, she entered the political arena and is an adult – but to include her son, to use her son, is a new low, even for CNN. Elon Musk, another public figure usually on the receiving end of good press, dared criticize modern journalism for their obsession with a crash involving one of his cars, found himself suddenly the target of a barrage of attacks. Musk soon found himself the subject of “news” stories with headlines like, “Elon Musk's Idea of 'Excellent' Journalism Comes From an Alleged Sex Cult” (Gizmodo), “Elon Musk Should Know Better” (The Atlantic), and “What It’s Like When Elon Musk’s Twitter Mob Comes After You” (The Daily Beast). I’m not going to link to any of them because they’re garbage, and that’s the problem. Musk dared say something negative, and true, about the state of journalism and “journalists” attacked him for it. The last story was written by a “reporter” with a history of trolling Musk, who was then called “brave” for writing about being attack by his fans for doing it. These could all be somewhat excusable in that they involve public figures, to one degree or another, but the Huffington Post thought the world needed to know about the Instagram “likes” of a contestant on a reality dating show. A contestant on The Bachelorette, a guy named Garrett Yrigoyen (don’t worry, I’d never heard of him either till I saw the story), committed the sin of “liking” conservative humor and stories on Instagram, and that, HuffPo thought, the world needed to know. Two, count them – two – reporters wrote a story of how Yrigoyen clicked the “like” button on jokes about feminism, immigration, Caitlyn Jenner…the horror. The jokes were amusing, at least to everyone on the planet who isn’t a liberal so uptight they could turn coal into a diamond by putting where their heads usually are. But that’s not good enough – Yrigoyen isn’t a down-the-line liberal, therefore he must be destroyed. It’s a sickness, liberalism is a sickness. Remember Justine Sacco? The PR executive no one had ever heard of who made a bad joke on Twitter before a flight to South Africa who, by the time she landed, had her life ruined for it with stories in every major news outlet? Or Lindsey Stone? The media destroyed her life after a picture of her on Facebook pretending to yell at a sign asking for quiet at Arlington National Cemetery we deemed newsworthy by the angry liberal mob hungry for a scalp (stories I detail in my upcoming book, preorder a copy here *hint, hint*). These are but a few examples of what the liberal mob will do to anyone who doesn’t exist in a way they approve of. There’s no need to be a public figure, if you step out of line they will come after you.
In case you missed Jim Acosta's latest rant, the CNN reporter complained on Wednesday that Kim Kardashian West had been invited to meet with President Trump. "She shouldn't be there," Acosta told his CNN coworkers. .@acosta going off just now on @KimKardashian being at the White House: "She shouldn't be here talking about prison reform." pic.twitter.com/5i1ZsXl3jh — David Rutz (@DavidRutz) May 30, 2018 "It just gets to the lack of seriousness," Acosta said. "Forget about the fact that Kim Kardashian is here at the White House today. What planet that is anything resembling normal, because its not." "She shouldn't be here talking about prison reform," he added. "It's very nice that she is here, but that's not a serious thing to have happened here at the White House." Acosta, though, forgot that there's a tweet for everything. In 2015, he was more than happy to give celebrities like John Legend a platform when President Obama was in office. Hey Jim @Acosta --- in case you forgot. Saved this one for when you delete pic.twitter.com/4bQmpFI81k — Storm Paglia ???? (@storm_paglia) May 30, 2018 Acosta interviewed Legend on CNN in 2015 about his push for prison reform, even encouraging the singer to run for office at the end of their discussion. He was an "activist" and "a musician on a mission," as CNN described him. Now, Kim Kardashian is pursuing the same effort - and it's a personal one. She is in search of clemency for her friend who is serving a life sentence for a first-time, non-violent drug offense. Yet, she does not get the title "activist" from the same media. She is just a celebrity in search of a photo op. John Legend was one of many celebrities with a welcome mat to the White House when Obama was president. George Clooney met with him to discuss foreign policy, artists like Katy Perry posed with him, and Jay-Z said he even texted with 44. So, why are Acosta and other journalists suddenly crying foul that celebrities are roaming the White House? Conservative commentator Dana Loesch had an idea why. .@DLoesch: “I just wish that people would stop unnecessarily hammering the administration, even on things they know they agree on or things that they know aren’t that big of a deal, but they do it anyway because it’s Trump.” https://t.co/i24eTjjKdk pic.twitter.com/BhbVHJpwAe — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 31, 2018 Loesch "can't believe" Acosta said Kardashian wasn't welcome at the White House. It is, after all, the people's house.
If you believe Hollywood is all about money, you misunderstand the industry. There is one thing that trumps cash every time: vendettas. And there are plenty of them. Some are personal. Many are political. When I was writing for the NBC sitcom House Rules, things started out glowing for the show. The network and studio liked what they were seeing. They were telling executive producer/show runner Chris Thompson we would be likely be slotted between Friends and Seinfeld on Thursday nights – the golden spot in all of television. Then NBC President Warren Littlefield took time out of his busy day to travel to the studio to watch a run-through the night before a taping. He appeared to enjoy the script, but asked for more of “the magic of Casey” in a meeting shortly after. Casey was played by Maria Pitillo, the star of the show. Thompson, known for being a bad boy among bad boys, mocked Littlefield for the “magic of Casey” line in front of his staff. I don’t remember what Chris said. But I do remember we all laughed. At the moment, it seemed funny to everyone in the room. But then we began to wonder: Did Chris just kill the show? Turns out, he did. Shortly after that day, the network announced we would be on Monday nights and they put our first episode up against the NCAA basketball championship game. It put another opposite the Academy Awards. Just like that, we were dead. The show cost nearly a million dollars an episode to make. And NBC was willing to dump all of that money in the river after one ill-advised comment from Chris Thompson. And this wasn’t a public comment, like Roseanne’s. And it wasn’t racist – the worst of the worst. I’ve told this story to other writers who have told me similar stories. So when I see ABC toss Roseanne over one incredibly idiotic tweet, I’m reminded that the entertainment industry is perfectly willing to lose money when pride is on the line. No, I don’t believe the comedian’s racist comment is the pride issue. Her decision to portray a family that has a Trump supporter as its matriarch is enough. They knew Roseanne Barr was trouble going in. They’ve seen other controversial tweets. They’ve been shown the Heeb magazine picture of her dressed in a Nazi outfit taking people-shaped cookies from an oven. But Roseanne was a liberal. She didn’t follow all the rules, but she followed the ones they consider sacred. That ended when she chose to make the main character in their sitcom a Trump voter. ABC has other stars whose vitriol is tolerated to a high degree. They just signed Keith Olbermann to a contract with ESPN. A quick google of Olbermann tweets and you’ll see he is one of the most angry, bitter humans on the planet. And he tosses around the word Nazi like a high school girl might say “like.” And it’s not that Roseanne Barr is a conservative. She isn’t. Her politics still run mostly far left. But that Trump-voter thing is poison in Hollywood. So, no, I don’t believe that tweet is what killed Roseanne, vile as it may be. I believe it was simply the cover the network needed to get rid of a show that caused embarrassment when executives were hobnobbing at parties in Beverly Hills.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. You don't need to believe that the special counsel investigating President Donald Trump is a terrible person to conclude that the Obama administration and Clinton machine (and later their holdovers during the Trump administration) politicized and weaponized federal agencies to protect Hillary Clinton and damage Trump. So if you just can't shake your instinct that Robert Mueller is the epitome of virtue and professionalism, hold fast to it, but consider the litany of facts that prove serious and abundant malfeasance on the part of the Obama-Clinton "deep state" actors. The Department of Justice, especially the FBI, bent over backward to protect Clinton and bent over forward to harm Trump. Despite those efforts, the stubborn facts have emerged, thanks to patriots relentlessly pursuing the truth. More will be revealed as the Obama-Clinton glass house continues to shatter, but there's already enough to make an objective person gasp. If Clinton had won the election, this evidence would have remained buried, and the power-abusing left would have been emboldened to continue to thwart the rule of law and target its opponents. Before you say it's preposterous that Obama or Clinton would have politicized and weaponized government agencies, remember the actions of Obama's IRS and EPA. As for protecting Clinton, consider this partial list: --Then-FBI Director James Comey wrote a letter exonerating her in advance of interviewing her and other key witnesses. --Comey presented a strong case against her yet shielded her from prosecution. --Comey claimed that Christopher Steele's dossier was not an indispensable part of the FISA warrant application, when everyone has admitted it was. He said he didn't know that the Clintons had paid for the dossier. --Comey earlier said there was no spying against Trump and later said there was but the "informants" were carefully regulated. --The FBI gave immunity like candy in the Clinton case and allowed two fact witnesses to sit in on the belated Clinton interview as her lawyers. --The FBI claimed to have lost five months' worth of texts between adulterous FBI honchos Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, which the inspector general found in less than a week. --Then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch met privately with Bill Clinton while Hillary was under investigation. Lynch instructed Comey to refer to the Clinton investigation as a "matter" instead of an investigation. --Strzok texted Page after Trump and Clinton became the nominees, "Now the pressure really starts to finish MYE" -- meaning "midyear exam," the FBI's code word for the Clinton email probe. Page responded, "It sure does." They were desperate to wrap up the Clinton investigation to prevent Trump's election. Page was legal counsel to then-FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe. The lovebirds noted that Obama wanted "to know everything." As Newt Gingrich said, with all that was going on under his watch, it's inconceivable that Obama and his adviser Valerie Jarrett didn't know about it. As for stopping, removing or disabling Trump, consider this partial list: --The FBI planted a spy or spies in the Trump campaign with no real evidence (beyond wishful thinking, anecdotal minutiae and hearsay rumors) that there was any nefarious connection between the campaign and Russia. It appears these spies were there not just to eavesdrop but to lure the Trump campaign into the very conduct they were pretending to investigate -- trying to "honey-trap" them. --The government opened a counterintelligence investigation against Trump without any evidence of a crime. --Based on a disgraceful leak from Comey, the DOJ appointed a special counsel to investigate the Trump campaign without any evidence of a crime and without specifying any crime in the appointment memo -- and such specificity is required by law. Recognizing this, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein surreptitiously amended his appointment memo, but he still won't reveal its content to congressional investigators. --The FBI deceived the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court four times by presenting the Steele dossier, paid for by the Clinton machine and based on unsubstantiated opposition research, as legitimate evidence and disclosing none of its origins to the court. It also fraudulently presented a news article sourced to the same Christopher Steele as corroborating the dossier. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act requires substantiated evidence; it's a strict standard because of the extraordinary encroachments on privacy it entails. The FBI also concealed from the court that Steele had been fired by the FBI. --The government has been stonewalling and scapegoating Rep. Devin Nunes and other congressional investigators for jeopardizing national security in demanding that documents be unredacted. Invariably, when the redactions are removed, we see that no security interests were involved but that the government was seeking to conceal embarrassing actions of government officials. The government slandered Nunes for outing the FBI mole, whose existence it had previously deceitfully denied, when it leaked facts facilitating his outing. --The Obama administration engaged in unprecedented and egregious unmaskings. --Five or six DOJ/FBI officials have been fired, demoted or reassigned. --The FBI agents didn't believe that Trump's first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, lied to them, yet the special counsel pressured him into a guilty plea. --Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper lied to Congress but later denied he had lied, claiming he was thinking about something other than what he was being questioned about. That would be lame from any witness, but from a man of Clapper's caliber, it is stunning. Clapper also said, disingenuously, that the government's intent was not to spy on the Trump camp but to find out what Russia was doing. Then why did the government try to entrap campaign members, and why did Clapper earlier deny there were spies in the campaign? If the government's goal was to protect the campaigns from Russian influence, why didn't it plant spies in the Clinton campaign, as well? Why didn't it warn the Trump campaign of the possible interference -- unless its goal was to damage Trump and protect Clinton, as opposed to safeguarding national security? --The Obama administration opened up a Logan Act case against the campaign opponent (Trump) of its would-be successor (Clinton). This is unprecedented and astonishing. --The Obama holdouts in the DOJ and FBI are still stonewalling and misrepresenting the facts -- especially as to the origin of the Trump investigation. That Hillary Clinton wasn't disciplined or prosecuted for her security breaches and deliberately destroying relevant evidence, among other things, is beyond disturbing. That Donald Trump colluded with Russia to win the presidency at this point seems fantastical.
Changes are ahead for Tennessee’s Achievement School District as, prompted by a new federal law, the state changes the way low-performing schools are handled. Proposed changes would reduce the flexibility the ASD has in taking over schools, and local districts would have more time to turn schools around before a takeover. The number of schools eligible for takeover could be cut by a third. Read more here.
Han Solo is one of the most unique characters in the Star Wars universe. As his last name implies, he’s a loner who plays by his own rules and follows his own instincts. Unlike the previous series standalone Rogue One (which focused on the mission to steal the Death Star plans and immediately preceded A New Hope), the goal of the new film Solo: A Star Wars Story is simply to introduce Solo’s back story. Because Solo’s history was only hinted at in the original Star Wars series, the filmmakers had more leeway here to present their own story. That’s exactly what the filmmakers do and the film works as a solid piece of entertainment because of it. Alden Ehrenreich stars as the title character and we see him as a young renegade growing up in a hostile world. Even from an early age, he was fighting for his personal independence and the film shows how he found his own way. Ehrenreich brings the youthful character to life, providing the charm and mischievousness that made Han Solo stand out. As the plot develops and Solo escapes from his home planet, he goes on a set of adventures that pit him against him against con artists and imperial forces. It’s during this series of adventures that we witness his early connection with Chewbecca (Joonas Suotamo) and his budding friendship with Lando Calrissian (Donald Glover). Part of the excitement here is to see how these characters bonded early on and there are a few fun surprises along the way. There are also a slew of new characters including Solo’s longtime friend Qi'ra (Emilia Clarke) and Beckett (Woody Harrelson), a thief who begrudgingly brings Solo onto a mission with him. The screenplay by Lawrence and Jonathan Kasdan (a father and son team) is exciting enough. Solo’s adventures eventually show the title character working to pull off a heist alongside Qi'ra and Beckett. The film has its action-packed moments but its breezy style doesn’t offer the same kind of grand excitement found in many of the previous Star Wars films. This isn’t a large story about the rebellion facing off against the Empire. It’s more of a personal story and because of that, it lacks some of the dramatic weight of some of the former installments. Additionally, none of the newer characters make a great mark in this long-running series. Qi’ra, for instance, is missing for large parts of the story. When she’s onscreen, she has some great scenes with Solo but she’s never given the character development to really stand out. The same goes for Beckett and some of Beckett’s closest allies. The only new standout character is the sarcastic droid L3-37 (voiced by Phoebe Waller-Bridge). This droid is bursting with personality and her arc really carries an emotional weight that is missing from some of the other plot developments. Despite some forgettable characters and a lack of great excitement, this feature offers a lot of fun. Directed by Ron Howard (who did a solid job here after the original directors were terminated), this standalone story does oftentimes feel separated from the original series. With that in mind, it might appeal to adventure seekers who aren’t as versed in the entire Star Wars series. For fans though, this story is satisfying enough but one only wishes that the movie offered a bit more. Sign up for John Hanlon’s weekly newsletter by clicking here.
Foreign desk: A Silent Coup in Italy Talk about liberalism without democracy: Italian President Sergio Mattarella has barred a coalition of euroskeptic parties from forming a government — despite the clear mandate they won from voters. Commentary’s Sohrab Ahmari calls it “nothing less than a bloodless coup d’état” that “laid bare the naked contempt for the vox populi among the Italian and European liberal establishment.” Ostensibly, the row is over the coalition’s choice of a former Bank of Italy official who’s compared German domination of the EU to the Nazi occupation, as economy minister. Mattarella objected, citing European “uncertainty about our position in the euro.” Says Ahmari: Either Mattarella “is the most tin-eared politician on the Continent,” or “he is utterly indifferent to the democratic compact that nominally holds his republic together.” Or both. Urban critic: Keep Government Out of Sports Betting The US Supreme Court may have just legalized sports betting, but City Journal’s Bob McManus contends the inevitable rush to institute it “isn’t driven by sound policy or clear thinking.” First there are “the moral issues raised by government-promoted gambling.” Bottom line, though: “As an economic-development tool, gambling simply doesn’t deliver,” as proven by Gov. Cuomo’s “big bet on casinos as an upstate stimulator.” Instead of providing communities with windfall income, “the casinos themselves are asking for government subsidies.” But while betting apps likely will preclude a resurrected OTB, which went bankrupt after years of diminishing returns, history suggests government-sponsored sports betting “won’t generate the kind of cash that boosters are promising.” In fact, that’s “the only safe wager” to be made. Historian: Jewish Boasting Mars Embassy Achievement Even before the paint began to dry on the sign in front of the new US embassy in Jerusalem, noted Rafael Medoff at the Jerusalem Post, Jewish groups began claiming credit. Organizations quickly started fundraising based on their claims to a “significant role,” while a rabbi involved in interfaith work “insisted Christian public opinion” was the key factor. But as Medoff notes: Anyone who’s followed the decades-long effort to move the embassy understands that the decision was “the result of numerous diplomatic and political factors, congressional efforts and advocacy by both Jewish and Christian groups.” Yet the only way many of these groups can “justify their existence — and their staff’s salaries — is to make ever louder claims as to what they have supposedly accomplished.” Political scribe: Jeff Flake’s 2020 Kamikaze Mission Arizona’s Jeff Flake may be the latest senator to see a future president in the mirror, suggests The Week’s Paul Waldman. Flake, who’s not seeking re-election, sounds more and more like he’s prepared to mount “a doomed yet vital” GOP primary challenge to President Trump. Certainly, he’s become Trump’s “most incessant critic among elected Republicans.” Indeed, liberated from the need to submit himself to his party’s voters, “he has been sometimes blistering in his critiques.” Yet “any challenge to an incumbent would be doomed from the start,” as Flake himself acknowledges. And the most recent such challenges all led to the incumbent losing the general election. Which suggests that if Flake “really finds Trump as repugnant as he says, this would be the perfect way to attack him.” From the right: Don’t Toss Audience Out With Roseanne There’s little disagreement with ABC’s decision to cancel “Roseanne” after its star’s tweets. But Philip Wegmann at the Washington Examiner worries that “ABC and all of Hollywood are dangerously close to dismissing the audience of her television show as themselves racist.” And that, he adds, “would be the wrong conclusion.” Those 22 million viewers tuned in to see “comedy from outside a coastal bubble,” not to watch Roseanne “regurgitate conspiracy theories.” The show “spoke to a long-overlooked audience “ about “things they cared about.” And Roseanne, for all her faults, “tapped into a real cultural current,” though in the end she did her audience “more harm than good.” But the show’s cancellation creates “a unique vacuum that can’t be filled with yet another liberal derivative.” — Compiled by Eric Fettmann
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. “Guard with jealous attention the public liberty. Suspect everyone who approaches that jewel. Unfortunately, nothing will preserve it but downright force. Whenever you give up that force, you are inevitably ruined.” – Patrick Henry “Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety.” – Benjamin Franklin In May 1942, with the U.S. Pacific fleet down to just three carriers after heavy losses incurred at the Battles of the Coral Sea and Midway, the USS Wasp, after having distinguished itself in the Atlantic war, embarked to fight the Japanese in the Pacific. After a hard fight at Guadalcanal, three Japanese torpedoes hit the Wasp head-on. Fires spread quickly thanks to the incredible amount of oil and gas released from the tanks by the direct hits, and it wasn’t long before the ship’s fate was sealed. My grandfather, Harding Morefield, was forced to jump into the ocean after his hair caught on fire. When the ship’s captain, Forrest P. Sherman, ordered the abandon ship, the only delays were caused by the crewmen who didn’t want to leave until every single wounded soldier was brought to safety. When the foundering, desperate Germans cut through the Ardennes to surprise American forces in December 1944 with what would be their last major offensive of the war, my wife’s grandfather, a young infantryman named George, was shot in the leg. Because the units in the area were caught by almost complete surprise, George languished in the snow for 12 hours before being rescued. He lost his leg in the battle, but 19,000 other Americans lost their lives. There are millions of stories like this, interwoven throughout the histories of millions of American families. Most of us have ancestors who were willing to fight and die for something they saw as bigger than themselves, a nation where they, their families and their descendants could live in freedom. From the patriots who risked their lives and sacred honor to found a new country based on liberty and justice to today’s brave soldiers who willingly sign up to fight an enemy that doesn’t always even wear a uniform or adhere to the laws of war, courage and sacrifice are what founded our nation and made it great. Our grandparents were heroes to us, of course, and in many ways today’s pampered generation can barely imagine the sacrifices they endured. My wife’s grandfather who lost his leg was said to have never complained about his situation, at least within earshot of his family. To them, he would have gladly given his other leg for his country. But they, along with most everyone who survived the horrors of war, would never tell you they were heroes. No, they’d probably say they were lucky, because to them it didn’t seem like there was any real rhyme or reason to those who got to go home and those who got buried on a European battlefield or dumped into the Pacific ocean, or even those who left a leg in some makeshift military hospital in Belgium. To them, the real heroes were the ones who gave all they had to give in places like Khe San and Hamburger Hill, Normandy and Bastogne, Belleau Wood and Flanders, Manassas and Gettysburg, Bunker Hill and Yorktown. Crosses in their honor are planted in fields all across Europe, and in Lee’s old farm in Virginia, their lives cut off in the flower of their youth, their deaths mourned by family members who would never see them again. The real heroes - they would say - never came home. American industrialist Henning Webb Prentis Jr. once described the historical cycle as, “from bondage to spiritual faith; from spiritual faith to courage; from courage to liberty; from liberty to abundance, from abundance to selfishness; from selfishness to apathy, from apathy to dependency; and from dependency back to bondage once more.” This Memorial Day weekend we should certainly remember our slain heroes, but we should also consider whether our fragile, dependent generation has the same mettle as our ancestors. Because if not, and if Prentis is correct, we’re about to enter a period of bondage unlike any mankind has experienced. As we enjoy an extra day off work and fire up the barbecue, may we not only remember the heroes who gave everything so we could live in a country founded upon and defined by liberty, may we also acknowledge just how precious and easily lost that liberty is. May we remember that freedom is something that, once lost, is never freely returned by those in power. It is always born of blood.
A three-judge panel of the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled Thursday that the federal government can lawfully print “In God We Trust” on U.S. currency. Though the result is a victory for those eager to preserve vestiges of religion in public life, conservative litigators warn the substance of the opinion could redound to the benefit of progressives. The plaintiffs are a coalition of atheists, humanists, and a Jew who claim the motto’s appearance on U.S. currency burdens their deeply-held beliefs, in violation of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act and the First Amendment. The non-believing plaintiffs say the inscription forces them to carry and spread a message with which they disagree, while endorsing a religious position they hold to be false. The Jewish plaintiff says the epigraph compromises his religious practice to the extent that it implicates him in the unnecessary printing and destruction of God’s name, which is sinful under Mosaic law. They further claim the explicitly Christian history of the inscription denies equal dignity to their religious views, a breach of the Constitution’s equal protection guarantees. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed The coalition is represented by Michael Newdow, a fixture of church-state controversies. He sued Chief Justice John Roberts for including the appendation “so help me God” at the end of the presidential oath of office, and his constitutional challenge to references to God in the pledge of allegiance reached the U.S. Supreme Court in 2004. In her opinion for the three-judge panel, Judge Jane Branstetter Stranch, an Obama appointee, rejected all of these claims. Though she agreed the plaintiff’s views qualified for RFRA’s protection, she explained that the burden placed on their beliefs was not substantial enough to constitute a violation. Other means of payment like credit cards or checks remain available to them, she noted, and the plaintiffs had failed to show why these auxiliary methods are not “feasible alternatives.” “The inscription of the motto on currency would place sufficiently substantial pressure on plaintiffs to violate their alleged religious beliefs only if using payment methods other than cash is more than a mere inconvenience, such as if plaintiffs have no feasible alternative to using cash to engage in necessary transactions,” she wrote. Conservative legal commentators, though satisfied of the result, took issue with Stranch’s findings. Writing in National Review, Diana Verm of the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, explained the “feasible alternative” test Stranch used would require plaintiffs to show that religious practice must be completely foreclosed by government policy in order for a RFRA violation to exist — a much higher standard as compared to current law. “It is not hard to imagine how this standard would harm religious believers navigating dense regulations, government bureaucracy, or roadblocks put up by a hostile local government,” she wrote. Verm also argued the coalition’s views should not qualify for RFRA protection, since atheism is not a religion but a philosophy, which does not enjoy legal protection. Tuesday’s ruling, she asserted, could allow atheists to weaponize RFRA to advance secular causes. “If a group like Freedom from Religion Foundation can bring a RFRA or free exercise clause claim simply because it thinks all religion is false, then it has a general license to sue,” she wrote. “And that would debase the currency of religious liberty.” The judge also rebuffed the constitutional claims, explaining that the motto serves broadly secular purposes like fostering commonality, does not engender distaste for atheists, and could not be reasonably attributed to the individual possessing it. Laws or policies which incidentally burden religion, provided they are general and neutral in application, generally survive constitutional scrutiny. The decision may be appealed to the full 6th Circuit or the U.S. Supreme Court. RELATED: Retired FBI Officials Claim Halper’s ‘Highly Irregular’ Media Contacts Pose Major Problem A version of this article appeared on The Daily Caller News Foundation website. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Gawker took its first tentative steps toward being revived when... The gossip website Gawker​ ​– which was worth an estimated $100 million before ​former pro-​wrestler Hulk Hogan won a $140 million verdict against the company for publishing his unauthorized sex tape​ ​– will be sold to a digital ad company for just $1.13 million if other buyers ​don’t come forward by mid-July. New York-based marketing firm Didit has offered to purchase the shuttered site out of bankruptcy and transform the once-snarky blog into a force for “Good Gossip” and “Good News,” according to a press release. Other potential buyers would have to offer at least $1.3 million at a July 12 auction to surpass Didit’s bid, according to bankruptcy filings. Univision bought the sister websites of Gawker.com for $135 million in 2017– but the media giant didn’t want the gossip site because it was considered too toxic. Experts had expected the sale of Gawker.com to bring in at least $5 million. The site was valued at $100 million prior to the Hogan verdict. Forty-five percent of any sale proceeds will go to Hogan and the other 55 percent to equity owners, including founder Nick Denton.
Many Americans see Memorial Day as an opportunity to relax in the yard, gather with friends, or plan a weekend getaway — and it very much is. But at the same time, it's important that we never lose sight of the day's significance. With that in mind, here are five interesting things to consider while we're gathering, celebrating, and paying respects the men and women who died serving this country. #1. We're all aware that Memorial Day is a day of remembrance, but Congress has also established an exact minute of remembrance. The National Moment of Remembrance Act, which was adopted in December of 2000, encourages every citizen to pause each Memorial Day at 3:00 p.m. local time to remember the brave men and women who died serving this country. In addition to any federal observances, Major League Baseball games usually come to a stop during the Moment of Remembrance, and for the past several years, Amtrak engineers have taken up the practice of sounding their horns in unison at precisely 3:00 p.m. #2. According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Memorial Day is celebrated in late May because that's when flowers are likely to be blooming across the country. It was Union General John A. Logan who — after serving in the Mexican-American War and Civil War — proposed that Congress institute May 30th as Decoration Day (the predecessor to Memorial Day) to allow citizens to decorate the graves of deceased veterans with fresh flowers. (It's also believed that Logan settled on the date because it wasn't already the anniversary of any significant battles.) #3. The Ironton-Lawrence Memorial Day Parade in Ironton, Ohio, is recognized as the oldest continuously running Memorial Day parade in the nation, beginning all the way back in 1868. However, the oldest (and first) Memorial Day parade in the country was held a year earlier in Doylestown, Pennsylvania. (It's also worth noting that both the National Memorial Day Parade in Washington, D.C., and the Little Neck-Douglaston Memorial Day Parade in Queens, N.Y., bill themselves as the largest Memorial Day parades in the nation.) #4. "Taps," the bugle call typically performed at military funerals as well as the annual Memorial Day wreath ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, was actually adapted from a separate Civil War bugle call known as "Scott Tattoo," which was used to signal lights out. The new melody later became the preferred accompaniment at military funerals after Captain John Tidball of the Union Army alert nearby Confederate troops to their location. #5. Despite rising gas prices, AAA estimates that 41.5 million people will be traveling on Memorial Day weekend, with 36.6 million of them traveling by car and clogging up the freeways. Leaving a little earlier on Thursday won't help to ease drivers' burdens, either: Transportation analysts working with AAA say drivers will be experiencing the greatest amount of congestion on Thursday and Friday, and "congestion across a greater number of days," in general, "than in previous years."
When California Gov. Jerry Brown decided to support President Trump’s call to put National Guard troops along the U.S. border with Mexico to keep out drug smugglers, human traffickers and gangs, I nearly fell out of my chair. So let me get this straight – the Democratic governor wants to keep these people from entering the state, but if they do sneak in he won’t support deporting them? The hypocrisy would be laughable if it wasn’t so frustrating. I tried to follow the logic, but then realized that when it comes to President Trump, California Democratic politicians have lost all ability to use logic or reason. After all, senseless outrage gets more “likes” than reasonable discourse. Let’s face it, if President Trump found a cure for cancer, you can bet that some California Democratic politician would find a reason to denounce him for it. I suppose even Gov. Brown realized how out of touch it would look to oppose putting the National Guard along our southern border since about 99 percent of all illegal drugs come from Mexico, not to mention the deadly business of an open border that encourages human trafficking. Gov. Brown won’t support a wall along our southern border, but he desperately wants to erect one between federal and local law enforcement partners. So last month the governor coordinated with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to accept federal funding to deploy 400 members of the California National Guard to the California-Mexico border. In his communication with DHS, Brown clarified that the California Guard members would “support operations targeting transnational criminal gangs, human traffickers and illegal firearm and drug smugglers.” The fact that he is acknowledging a problem at the border is a good first step. Unfortunately it’s campaign season, and I fear this will be the last rational act by Democrats, at least until after the November elections. Democratic politicians in California have almost universally opted for the same political playbook that consists of doing and saying anything to oppose the policies coming out of the Trump administration. While that may be a time-honored political tradition, we should draw the line when their actions threaten the safety of Americans. The passage of the sanctuary state law that places restrictions on the communications between federal, state and local law enforcement agencies is incredibly dangerous. There are a host of reasons and real world examples where collaborative communication between federal and local law enforcement partners made the difference in protecting the public. California State Sheriffs Association President Bill Brown illustrated the concerns by highlighting the fact that the sanctuary state law contains “significant liabilities, which include restricting our communications with federal law enforcement about the release of wanted, undocumented criminals from our jails, including known gang members, repeat drunk drivers, persons who assault peace officers, serial thieves, animal abusers, and other serious offenders.” Gov. Brown won’t support a wall along our southern border, but he desperately wants to erect one between federal and local law enforcement partners. Thankfully Californians see past Brown’s irresponsible attempts to thwart law and order. Cities across the state, including the cities of Corona and Lake Elsinore in the 42nd Congressional District that I represent in the U.S. House, have taken action to oppose the sanctuary state law. I applaud them for their courage and leadership. Now it’s time for California Democrats to step up and stop playing politics with the safety of the public. They need to put the interests of Americans and legal residents ahead of criminal illegal immigrants. It’s obvious to anyone paying attention that their efforts to protect criminal illegal immigrants are nothing but a desperate attempt to re-litigate the presidential election they lost.
Mere minutes before Sam Blackledge should have given his valedictory address in front of his loved ones and classmates May 19, the principal of West Prairie High School in Sciota, Illinois took him aside. Blackledge, 18, was presented with a terrible choice: censor his speech, removing any religious references, or don't speak at his own graduation. Blackledge earned the right to speak to his classmates as valedictorian. He believes this achievement – his 4.0 GPA – would not have been possible without his faith. The student told Fox News that he was specifically barred from mentioning Jesus Christ in his speech because “the principal told me it wasn’t appropriate for the setting.” “The most important thing in my life is Christ,” Blackledge told Fox News. “Christ is the only reason I was a valedictorian. He’s the reason I got that 4.0. If it wasn’t for him I wouldn’t be up there. I was giving him the credit for that.” What is so dangerous about a young man having the humility to acknowledge that his success would not have been possible without his faith that he must be kept from the podium? The young man should have been congratulated for his academic achievements and his speech, with themes of the triumph of justice, love, and forgiveness over evil. Instead, on what was supposed to be a joyous day for Blackledge and his family, misunderstanding and fear triumphed over love and freedom. That school officials would censor Blackledge’s speech and deny him the freedom to share this essential part of his identity with his loved ones and classmates is inexcusable. How many more high school graduations must be ruined by school officials who, by misunderstanding or intentional act, deny their pupils their constitutional rights to freedom of expression from the schoolhouse gates all the way through the graduation ceremony? What is so dangerous about a young man having the humility to acknowledge that his success would not have been possible without his faith that he must be kept from the podium? Why is this reference to his religious identity treated any differently than another student crediting a family member for his achievements? School officials have us believe that humility is apparently offensive on the one hand and on the other it is virtuous. No one thinks that a school owns the content of private speech by a valedictorian just because it occurs on school property. But even if someone thought such a misunderstanding could occur, school officials could have clarified the matter, as the U.S. Department of Education suggests, by making “appropriate, neutral disclaimers to clarify that such speech (whether religious or nonreligious) is the speaker’s and not the school’s.” Judge Frank Easterbrook writing for the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in the 1993 decision of Hedges v. Wauconda Community Unit School District, explained that, rather than censor religious speech, it is far better for schools “to educate the audience rather than squelch the speaker.” The judge explained in the decision that if a school district cannot teach the difference between providing a forum for private speech and school-sponsored speech, it is doubtful that the school is capable of teaching anything at all. It’s unfortunate that Blackledge’s school did not heed Judge Easterbrook’s important instruction: “Schools may not prohibit their pupils from expressing ideas. And no arm of government may discriminate against religious speech when speech on other subjects is permitted in the same place at the same time.” First Liberty Institute, which represents Sam Blackledge, is working to ensure future valedictorians aren’t denied their freedom. We’ve asked the school to apologize to him for ruining his only high school graduation. In addition, we’ve offered to meet with school officials to help them craft policies that will ensure what happened to Blackledge doesn’t happen to anyone else. When all religious speech is censored then the purpose of education – and the First Amendment – is frustrated. Not only is the speaker deprived of his or her right to free expression enshrined in our Constitution by the founders as the very first liberty protected, but others are robbed of the benefit of hearing a meaningful message. The founders enshrined religious freedom and free speech in the First Amendment because they believed that we grow from hearing perspectives we may not share and sharing our beliefs with others. Ours is a nation founded by a people persecuted for their humility in acknowledging that their success would not have been possible without something greater than themselves. We can hardly expect our high school graduates to fight for our country, to defend our values abroad, or to choose the next leaders of our nation when we censor viewpoints that school officials might not agree with up to, and including, the day they graduate. It’s too late for Sam Blackledge, but there will be more valedictorians in the future. Perhaps Blackledge’s lasting legacy will be that his is the last speech to be unconstitutionally censored by school officials who wrongly believe, as Judge Easterbrook put it, “that the best defense against misunderstanding is censorship.” Neal Mehrotra is a student at The George Washington University Law School and legal intern at First Liberty.
US District Court Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald, a Clinton appointee, ruled that when Trump blocks Twitter trolls from his personal @realDonaldTrump account, he violates the First Amendment. Donald Trump uses Twitter to communicate with the public via two separate Twitter accounts: the official Presidential @POTUS account, which he inherited as President in January 2017, and the @realDonaldTrump account, which he has used as his personal account since March 2009. Trump communicates with the public using both accounts. Trump is accused of unconstitutionally blocking unfavorable users, dubbed Twitter trolls, from his personal @realDonaldTrump account. The Twitter trolls sued Trump, arguing that when they were blocked, they could not participate in discussions with others in the comments sections on Trump’s tweets, and were therefore deprived of their First Amendment rights. The fact that @realDonaldTrump is a personal account did not prevent Buchwald from opining that the sporadic use of the account for government purposes converted the tweets into government speech and the account into a public forum. “We hold that portions of the @realDonaldTrump account -- the ‘interactive space’ where Twitter users may directly engage with the content of the President’s tweets -- are properly analyzed under the ‘public forum’ doctrines set forth by the Supreme Court, that such space is a designated public forum, and that the blocking of the plaintiffs based on their political speech constitutes viewpoint discrimination that violates the First Amendment. In so holding, we reject the defendants’ contentions that the First Amendment does not apply in this case and that the President’s personal First Amendment interests supersede those of plaintiffs.” The comprehensive 75-page decision considered public forum doctrine, government control, freedom of speech, viewpoint discrimination, and so forth. After thorough review and analysis, my takeaway was that it’s complicated. I could not say that I agreed with Buchwald’s analysis. But I also could not say that I disagreed. I needed to consult with a First Amendment expert. Clark Neily is a respected Constitutional Law expert who has argued First Amendment issues in both federal and state courts. We discussed the Buchwald decision. Neily’s first impression was the same as mine: it’s complicated. Neily explained that the issues can be plausibly argued either way, but that ultimately Buchenwald was probably correct. The President created a “virtual forum,” Neily explained, by tweeting public policy issues from the @realDonaldTrump account. Trump then blocked certain accounts from commenting on those tweets. The President’s legal team acknowledged that those accounts were blocked as a result of viewpoint discrimination. This is a “HUGE concession to make in a First Amendment case,” Neily declared. I asked Neily whether having a dedicated public forum account, @POTUS, bears any weight on the private @realDonaldTrump account, which is not dedicated solely to Presidential speech. He answered that it does not, noting that Trump frequently uses his private account “to prompt and participate in public-policy discussions,” agreeing with Buchwald’s analysis. Neily defends that Trump is not obliged to speak to everyone and that not all speech by a President is subject to public participation. But he foresees an uphill battle for Trump’s legal team. Neily believes that the greatest hurdle for the President to overcome is the fact that Trump had a less-restrictive means of ignoring people he disliked: he could have muted them. Muting the trolls would have allowed the trolls to speak about Trump’s tweets, without Trump having to have seen them. It’s complicated. I remain unpersuaded that a personal Twitter account, even when used by a President for some government-related statements, is converted into a government account and into a public forum, especially when official Presidential communications are released on the @POTUS government-owned account. I believe that significant arguments remain in this realm. But I agree that it’s a muddled issue in this case. I also do not accept that the trolls were aggrieved as extensively as they claim; they could have easily created new Twitter accounts and participated in @realDonaldTrump discussions via new accounts. Buchwald did not address this. For those who disagree or are unsatisfied with Buchwald’s ruling, do not fret. Buchwald sits at the lowest Federal court level and is subject to appellate correction. We know that Trump hates Twitter trolls, so there is a good chance that he will contest this ruling. The next Trump v. Troll battle will be at the Court of Appeals, if Trump chooses to appeal.
A year and a half after the election, Hillary Clinton still finds herself a political piñata. President Trump keeps pounding "Crooked H" on Twitter, suggesting that she should still be under investigation. The media keep portraying her as whining about her election loss—a problem she has certainly contributed to in the past. The New York Times said yesterday that she "faces distrust on the left, where she is seen as an avatar of the Democratic establishment, and raw enmity on the right." And she's getting liberal flak for preparing to endorse Andrew Cuomo for reelection–because "Sex and the City" star Cynthia Nixon happens to be running against him. Clearly, there is no shortage of piling on here. First, it's ridiculous that the former secretary of State is being criticized for not automatically backing the woman in New York's gubernatorial primary, even though Nixon is a long shot with zero political experience. Cuomo supported Clinton's presidential bid and ran HUD in her husband's administration, so of course she's backing him. Is there some rule that female politicians have to endorse every single woman who jumps into a race, unqualified or not? Hillary certainly kept alive the notion that she's bitter about her 2016 defeat during her endless book tour. At various times she has blamed the media, Jim Comey, Vladimir Putin, sexism, and women who vote the way their husbands tell them to. Many Democrats cringed over that last theory and suggested it was time to move on rather than relitigating the last election. But now it almost doesn't matter what Clinton does. When she gave a commencement speech over the weekend at Yale, which has a tradition of funny hats, she brandished a black Russian hat. It was a joke. Cable had a field day. In that address, Clinton took shots at Trump, though not by name, and said of the election in a slightly self-deprecating tone: "No, I'm not over it. I still think about the 2016 election. I still regret the mistakes I made." With those words, at least, she blamed herself and not others. Still, there were a spate of "she's not over it" headlines. The truth is that's the only Hillary narrative the press is interested in. Journalists don't really care about anything else she has to say. People click on just about anything having to do with her and 2016. So the briefest mention is what makes news. Clinton supporters say the press allowed John Kerry, John McCain and Mitt Romney to move forward after their losses (though the first two remained senators and the latter is trying to become one). The Times piece says that Hillary Clinton is cautiously trying to reengage in the midterms, but that her husband has been "all but invisible" and "largely sidelined amid new scrutiny of his past misconduct with women." The #Me-Too era has caused even some liberal commentators to retroactively denounce Bill Clinton. Plus, insiders fear that he could go "wildly off message" in campaign settings. What's more, many Democrats "worry that the Clinton name reeks of the past and fear that their unpopularity with conservative-leaning and independent voters could harm Democrats in close races." The couple isn't even welcome in Arkansas, where they served as governor and first lady. Hillary Clinton has a right to speak out, of course, but she has so much baggage that much of her own party is wary of her. And the media, which always had testy relations with her, seem wedded to covering her as a figure from the past.
Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ryan Zinke announced on Thursday the agency’s Opioid Task Force conducted a major operation around tribal reservations in Arizona, netting a massive seizure of illegal narcotics. The 11-day investigation conducted between May 15 and May 26 ended with a roundup of more than 9,050 Fentanyl pills, 48.5 pounds of methamphetamine, 1.2 pounds of heroin, 863 pounds of marijuana, and one-half pound of cocaine. DOI said $30,000 in cash was found over the course of the bust, with the street value of the drugs seized totaling $4,791,417 Eighty-six people were arrested during the operation, according to DOI. “Our task force on opioids continues to distinguish itself as one of the finest operations in law enforcement today; I could not be more proud of these professionals,” Zinke said in a press release distributed following his appearance Thursday on Fox and Friends, where he announced the operation. “It’s heartbreaking to see the scale of the problem, and rather than further stigmatizing victims, we are cracking down on the dealers who are selling out our children, selling out our communities, and selling out our nation,” Zinke said. Zinke thanked the “brave men and women” who took part in the operation and warned drug dealers and traffickers law enforcement officers are “keeping drug dealers up at night.” “And with good reason; if you are trafficking these drugs, we will find you, arrest you, and bring you to justice,” Zinke said. News Release: Trump Admin. Taskforce Completes Successful Opioid Bust in AZ –https://t.co/ycPZ5gZTf7 "I commend the efforts of @BIAOJS, along w/ federal, tribal & state partners for successfully conducting this operation… together can we protect our loved ones…”-PDAS Tahsuda pic.twitter.com/iIG26euZef — Indian Affairs (@USIndianAffairs) May 31, 2018 “A drug-free Indian Country is a healthy Indian Country,” John Tahsuda, principal deputy assistant secretary for DOI’s Indian Affairs,” said in the press release. “Only together can we protect our loved ones from the harmful effects of these devastating substances,” Tahsuda said. “Secretary Zinke has worked with tribes to carry out President Trump’s directive to stop the opioid crisis, conducting dozens of tribal visits to see the affected communities, while listening and learning about how to fight the crisis,” the DOI press release said. “In starting new initiatives to fight the epidemic, such as the creation of the Joint Task Force, [DOI] is committed to giving all resources required to fight drug abuse,” the release said. Thanks to @SecretaryZinke and @USIndianAffairs for cracking down on drug trafficking near our southern border and keeping our communities safe. #OpioidCrisis https://t.co/Nq7eDn0LjN — Rep. Paul Gosar, DDS (@RepGosar) May 31, 2018 Special Agents from the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), Division of Drug Enforcement (DDE) and BIA K-9 uniformed officers, along with the Tohono O’odham Police Department, Homeland Security Investigations (HSI-Sells, Arizona), U.S. Border Patrol (USBP), Pascua Yaqui Tribal Police Department, San Carlos Apache Tribal Police Department, Gila River Tribal Police Department, Native American Targeted Investigations of Violent Enterprises (NATIVE) Task Force, and the Arizona Department of Public Safety (DPS) took part in the operation, according to DOI. The Arizona operation is the second led by Interior’s Opioid Task Force, DOI said. Follow Penny Starr on Twitter
With federal control of Montana’s public lands growing more contentious due to questionable decisions by the feds, a majority of residents are now looking for an on-site manager. A recent survey conducted by the University of Montana and Stanford University found that a clear majority of Montana residents now support transferring some public lands, which are controlled by the federal government, to the state. The poll shows that local control is favored by 59 percent of those surveyed. The Rural West Conference Montana Survey asks Montana residents about key social and political factors, as well as how leaders and policy affect both urban and rural economies. In February of this year, 923 adults were questioned about the state’s foremost issues. The survey shows that Montanans favor state control of resource development, and also want public lands to be used for wilderness and outdoor recreation. Those surveyed indicated that a majority of Montanans believe “[t]he federal government owns too much land in Montana and should transfer some of it to the state.” Small town residents are most supportive of transferring public lands to state control, at 63 percent. Rural residents support the transfer by 59 percent, and urban residents, still a majority, are at 55 percent support. Protection of wildlife, increased recreational access, and development of farms and ranches were cited as important facets of public lands policy by respondents. Montana’s largest minority group is composed of individuals belonging to various Native American Tribes. This survey indicates a strong preference, 78 percent, for giving those tribes the freedom to repurchase “ancestral lands that the tribes no longer own, for development and recreation.” Montana residents care deeply about their state, its natural resources and beauty, as well as economic development. According to this new survey, most believe state and local control is the best way to create jobs while protecting those things that set Montana apart as a wild and beautiful place. The transfer of public lands from federal to state management is not a new idea, but a great deal of misinformation has been spread about both its legality and its implications. As public lands issues are increasingly demystified for the public, transferring to local control is becoming increasingly popular. It is neither a sell-off nor privatization of public lands, but a simple transfer from federal to state control. Federal public lands simply become state public lands to be managed according to policies formulated by elected representatives within each state. Utah, which has been at the cutting edge of formulating transfer of public lands policy, and Idaho have passed legislation initiating the process for restoring local control to federal lands. Utah’s Public Lands Act has been exhaustively vetted by numerous constitutional scholars, and thus far, has survived intense scrutiny by the courts. Other Western states are also passing bills to study the economic and environmental implications of transferring lands from federal control. Although each state is approaching the issue differently, the trend away from federal ownership is the same. The Montana state government is under increasing pressure to protect its people and economic drivers, such as oil and gas and ranching, from increasingly prohibitive and unfair policies coming out of Washington, D.C. The federal Department of the Interior (DoI), and it’s key management agency, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), have threatened Montana’s oil and gas sector by stalling, or completely withdrawing, long-standing leases due to pressure from environmental groups. Most recently, the DoI deferred leases on 60,000 acres in Montana due to the potential impact on the sage grouse’s habitat, threatening family-owned ranching operations. Such D.C. policies pose threats to Montana’s energy sector and ranchers whose cattle have grazed public lands for generations. Last summer, the U.S. Forest Service refused to allow Montana’s helicopter fleet to assist in fighting wildfires on federal land, despite the flames threatening to spread throughout the state. Gov. Steve Bullock, a Democrat, even sent a letter to the Obama Administration to complain. Federal overreach and politically-driven policies are being felt by more and more people in Western states. With their preference for having public lands transferred to the state, a majority of Montana residents are indicating that they now favor a simple and fair solution to complicated and unfair Washington, D.C. policies. This article was written by a contributor from Franklin Center’s network of writers, bloggers, and citizen journalists.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. It took two years, boycotts by fans, declining TV ratings, growing alarm among advertisers, a drop in the sale of gear and especially a public shaming by President Trump, but the owners of NFL teams have finally decided their players will not be allowed to kneel or make other protests during the playing of the national anthem. The NFL Players Association claims the owners' decision violates the players' "free speech rights." No it doesn't. Players are perfectly free to protest anywhere, anytime they wish, just not at the start of games for which the owners pay them large amounts of money they are unlikely to make elsewhere. If you think free speech rights are valid wherever and whenever one wants to speak, try protesting something on company time where you work and see how long you keep your job. The NFL is a business. The business is sports. If any other business is hurt by the behavior of its employees, management either requests a change in behavior, or sacks the employee for the sake of the bottom line and the morale of other employees and customers. If players take the owners' check, the owners have a right to lay down certain rules, as in football. Players who want to make a difference beyond symbolic protests, which they say raises awareness about racial injustice and other inequalities, can use their financial resources and celebrity to invest in the lives of people they regard as victims. Perhaps they could pay for the private education of children trapped in failing public schools or provide job training and child care for single mothers who rely on government assistance. Some players do go beyond protests with their good works. The protesters and others can follow their example. With its decision to order players to stop the demonstrations, the NFL isn't finished. Their next issue should be how their cheerleaders are treated. It's been a long time since NFL cheerleaders actually led cheers. Today, they shake their barely clothed bodies in suggestive ways while male fans who have consumed too much beer can ogle them. Cheerleaders have recently gone public with complaints that some NFL teams encourage their participation in off-the-field events, which subject them to unwanted sexual advances. As The New York Times reported last month, "... performing at sporting events is only a small part of their job description. They are also required to fulfill what often is the unsavory side of the job: interacting with fans at games and other promotional events, where groping and sexual harassment are common." The cheerleaders told the newspaper that team officials with the NFL, as well as those associated with the National Basketball Association (NBA) and National Hockey League (NHL), are aware of the problem, but have done little or nothing to stop it. They should. Sexual harassment is illegal and with the #metoo movement, clearly the "rules" and level of tolerance for such inappropriate behavior have changed. While skimpy outfits might encourage certain men to think they are invited to make advances toward women, and while these cheerleaders might wish to dress more modestly at off-field events (which they should not be forced to attend) that does not absolve men from sexually harassing them. NFL owners have done well by banning protests during the national anthem. They should now act to stop the harassment of their cheerleaders. And it shouldn't take two years to do it.
Embattled Democratic Assemblywoman Cristina Garcia (D-Bell Gardens), a leader of the #MeToo movement in California, is struggling to campaign for re-election after being hit by sexual harassment and misconduct allegations earlier this year. Garcia returned from a voluntary three-month leave of absence last week during a legislative investigation into her alleged misconduct. “It is incredibly difficult for her to be an effective representative,” Jessica Levinson, a law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, told the Los Angeles Times or Garcia’s reelection bid. “She can only do floor votes. She has no power in committees, which is where all the power is.” Garcia represents the heavily Democratic 58th Assembly District and is facing off against six fellow Democrats and a Republican. According to the Los Angeles Times, Garcia is “facing a well-funded opposition campaign from typically Democratic allies and damaged relationships with many of her colleagues in Sacramento.” During her return to the Assembly on Friday, Garcia was met by female protesters who stood silently with shirts that spelled out “RESIGN” in red, according to local CBS News coverage. Breitbart News reported in February that “Garcia reportedly slept with fellow lawmakers in order to get information out of them, allegedly spoke graphically about her encounters, and allegedly urged fellow lawmakers to play ‘spin the bottle’ after a political fundraiser.” She has denied any wrongdoing. In March, Garcia acknowledged that she had made a homophobic comment about former Assembly Speaker John A. Pérez (D-Los Angeles) and apologized. She was recently cleared of charges of groping a male staffer, but her accuser is appealing that finding, the Sacramento Bee reports. Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.
The next wave of wireless technology has arrived, and with it a tug-of-war between state and local governments trying to figure out how to balance cost, profit and improved service. The technology is small cells. Unlike giant, stand-alone cell towers that dot the countryside with long-range cell deployment, small cells are just that — smaller. They can be installed on existing utility poles and inside buildings in densely populated cities, and have a range of 10 meters to several hundred meters. The cells speed up current wireless service and set up the infrastructure for 5G technology when it rolls out as expected in 2020. Cities cashing in Because the poles are typically in the public right-of-way, cities across the country are cashing in on permit and attachment fees, by charging rent to companies such as Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile and Sprint, who are anxious to lay the infrastructure to accommodate a huge hike in data demand. In Nebraska, the city of Lincoln inked a 20-year lease agreement with Verizon in December to install more than 100 small cells on light poles. “For us, the single most important thing is getting better cell coverage in Lincoln. Period,” David Young, Lincoln’s fiber network and right-of-way manager, said in a February podcast interview. “Going from an average of 12 to 15 megabits a second on a good day to 150 to 180 megabits on a small cell day, as a mobile customer myself, I’m pretty excited about that.” RELATED: ‘Smart cities’ could be next big wireless upgrade – if cities would cooperate The deal calls for Verizon to pay a $1,500 permit fee, and $1,995 per pole, per year. The per-pole rent jumps 2.3 percent each year, meaning Verizon will pay more than $3,000 in the final year of the agreement. According to the Lincoln Electric System’s website, the pole attachment fee is $16 per pole, far less than the $1,995 in the agreement, and applies to “other utilities and certain entities which may occupy public right of way and who attach communication appliances on SYSTEM poles.” But Young tells Watchdog.org that Verizon suggested the rate after the company received a survey of different community pole lease rates and pricing methodologies. “The best and most accurate way I found to calculate municipal small cell attachments rates is to take existing information for macro cell site attachment pricing and divide by a factor of 8-12,” Young said. “The macro pricing methodology gives your community a basis for establishing a range for small cell attachment pricing the industry will understand.” Young says since then, a second company, Mobility, has signed an agreement to install 50 cells. The city also is in talks with a third provider. “Yes, the Lincoln model is working,” he said. State lawmakers, however, are considering a bill that would wipe out the city’s newfound cash influx. LB 389, or the Small Wireless Facilities Act, would cap application and permit fees at $250 and eliminate other lease, fee or tax payments, However, local governments would keep control over permitting. A spokesman for state Sen. Curt Friesen, the bill’s sponsor, says LB 389 is currently in committee where amendments are being hammered out by all parties involved, including “governmental subdivisions, your cable companies, other tech companies.” Young says the bill is flawed and represents a step back in promoting broadband in Nebraska. “LB 389, if passed without modification, would effectively gut the city’s current program and send us back to the drawing board with respect to negotiations and agreements,” he said. “Ultimately, the city would end up with two sets of poles with small cell equipment — those governed by current agreements and those governed by future agreements.” The city is joined by the Nebraska Rural Electric Association and the League of Nebraska Municipalities in its opposition. The legislation has strong support, however, by groups such as CTIA, the primary trade association for the wireless industry. The group predicts 5G deployment will add more than 250,000 small cells across the country and about three million jobs. It also forecasts that nearly $500 billion will be added to the nation’s GDP over the next seven years. Nebraska’s chunk of that would be significant, according to a letter from CTIA supporting Nebraska’s bill. In the letter, CTIA state legislative affairs director Bethanne Cooley said removing barriers to small cell deployment could mean more than 4,000 jobs and $675 million in Omaha alone. RELATED: Will Florida preempt local governments to complete next-gen wireless connectivity? While Nebraska and more than a dozen other states take up legislation to bring small cell deployment under broad-based regulatory umbrellas, the Federal Communications Commission is considering doing the same. The agency recently wrapped up a comment period on streamlining small cell deployment to gauge the need to update its rules. Right now, federal law generally allows states to govern public rights of way, but recognizes local authority in the permitting process and the challenges in accommodating an exploding new infrastructure technology. Feds weigh in The FCC sought feedback on lag time between permit application and approval, as well as how local governments calculate provider fees and lease payments. “Are recurring charges set based on localities’ ongoing costs of managing use of rights of way? To what extent are localities imposing charges based on other considerations, such as percentages of gross revenues or other indicia of the value of the use of the right-of-way?” the FCC posed in its request. Seth Cooper is a senior fellow with the Free State Foundation, a nonprofit think tank specializing in government regulations. He says local governments need to resist the profit urge in favor of better wireless service for the greater good. “Some local governments may be tempted to grow their budgets by demanding wireless infrastructure providers pay large fees and high rates to put small cell infrastructure on utility poles or traffic lights,” Cooper told Watchdog in a statement. “But excessive charges for small cell placements on public rights-of-way end up delaying 4G and 5G wireless network upgrades.” Cooper added: “States and local governments that want their citizens to enjoy the economic and other benefits of faster 4G and future 5G services should set fee and rate standards to recover administrative costs only.” Kathy Hoekstra is a national regulatory reporter for Watchdog.org. Contact her atkhoekstra@watchdog.org and @khoekstra.
There are certain subgroups who will never be satisfied. GLAAD, originally an acronym for the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, is one of them. And they are here to make sure you are aware of every complaint. The far-left group puts out a “Studio Responsibility Index” where they analyze what they call “quantity, quality and diversity of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) people in films released by the seven major motion picture studios during the 2017 calendar year.” Now, if you’re a TV and film fan, you are likely tired of the sheer quantity of gay characters. Oh, GLAAD is here to tell you, it’s not enough. Specifically, they are upset with how few transgender characters made the cut in major motions pictures in 2017. They are also demanding more “LGBTQ” characters and eventually insist that half of all films depict someone represented in that cluster of letters. The problem is, the math doesn’t add up. They want half of all films to contain what amounts to 2 percent of the population. But it gets worse than that. This doesn’t account for something Hollywood would never want to address: The ick-factor. Straight men who watch movies are repulsed by the sight of two men kissing. In fact, women are, as well. It’s politically incorrect to note this fact, but gay male relationships drive away audiences like little else. Marc Cherry, best known as the brains behind the hit show Desperate Housewives, created a sitcom prior to that called “The Crew.” I was invited by Cherry to the pilot taping of the show. Sitcom pilots often struggle to get a full audience, and The Crew was no exception. So the studio bused in additional audience members. It turns out, all the writers on The Crew were gay. The entire midsection of the audience were invited guests. It wasn’t long before my wife and I realized we were surrounded by gay men. And on that day, of all days, the audience they bused in were all military. So in the middle, about 40 gay men along with my wife and me. On the outside about 100 military. Much to my surprise, it became a study of humor. What the men in the middle laughed at was quite different than what the men on the edges found humorous. The show featured a gay character – the smart one of the group. A common theme in Hollywood. As the initial season wore on, a heterosexual couple started to get traction with the audience. A friend of creator Marc Cherry told me he had no desire to write about that relationship. That he’d rather kill the show. And that he did. Now, we see gay characters all over the television landscape. Even where they make absolutely no sense at all. Victoria, a well-produced British series shown on Amazon Prime, has a gay character. This is a show set in the royal palace in the 1800’s. Really? Even though Victoria is one of the cleaner series out there, one episode featured a gay male kiss. The ick-factor. Shortly after, one of the gay characters was killed off. In the Netflix miniseries “Godless,” set in the old west, a town of women features a lesbian couple. Of course, the smartest of the group is one of the lesbians. But again, it’s treated as perfectly normal. Besides the absurdity of gay characters in these settings, many families turn these shows off immediately. The numbers game does not work in Hollywood’s favor. Regardless, Hollywood has been force feeding America gay characters for decades. And for the most part, America has tolerated it. In some ways, they’ve embraced it. But that isn’t enough. And GLAAD is here to make sure you get more. Far more. They have specific demands, as they have in the past. If they are met, and they most likely will be, they won’t be satisfied. They never are.
A funding plan has been introduced in Kansas that would allow the state to avoid a shutdown of public schools. Committees in both the House and Senate have approved identical bills that would provide $38 million in aid to poor school districts in 2016-17, redistributing money from wealthier districts to poorer ones. Read more here.
Efforts to form a coalition government collapsed on Sunday after the Italian president rejected a eurosceptic pick for the key economy ministry, triggering a possible constitutional crisis and opening the prospect of fresh elections. France24 reports Italy's PM-Designate Gives Up on Efforts to Form a Government, May Mean New Election. The leaders of the two parties trying to field a government, the far-right League and anti-establishment 5-Star Movement, accused President Sergio Mattarella of abusing his authority and working under the orders of European powers. 5-Star leader Luigi Di Maio, whose party won the most seats at an inconclusive March 4 vote, demanded that parliament impeach Mattarella, raising the spectre of political turmoil in the eurozone's third biggest economy. Looking to allay investor concerns, Mattarella vetoed on Sunday the choice of 81-year-old economist Paolo Savona, a vocal critic of the single currency, to the pivotal economy post. Prime Minister-designate Giuseppe Conte promptly abandoned his efforts to form a government. In a sombre, televised speech, Mattarella said he had accepted all the suggested ministers bar Savona. "I asked for that ministry an authoritative political figure from the coalition parties who was not seen as the supporter of a line that could provoke Italy's exit from the euro," he said. Shortly afterwards, he summoned former International Monetary Fund (IMF) senior official Carlo Cottarelli for a Monday morning meeting -- an indication he may be considering asking him to head a government of unelected technocrats. Polls have suggested that the League, which won 17 percent of the vote in March, would see its support surge in any early ballot, while support for 5-Star remained strong. News of Mattarella's veto sent a shockwave through Italy. The leader of the nationalist Brothers of Italy party, which had an electoral pact with the League, said the head of state should be impeached, accusing him of abusing his position. "We will ask parliament to charge Mattarella with high-treason because he has acted under foreign pressure," Brothers of Italy chief Giorgia Meloni said on La7 television channel. The 5-Star's Di Maio also demanded impeachment under article 90 of the constitution. Under that clause, parliament can demand a president leave office if a simple majority of lawmakers votes in favour. The constitutional court would then be called to decide whether to impeach or not. In Sunday's statement Savona did not mention his opinions on the euro, but more than 70 slides outlining a "plan B" for Italy's exit from the euro, co-authored by Savona in 2015 with a dozen others, circulated on social media.
“Welcome to the jungle. It gets worse here every day.” – Guns N’ Roses The California primary next Tuesday could serve as a sentinel indicating whether the House of Representatives is truly in play in the midterms. But of late, Democrats are struggling in the Golden State. And if they can't deliver in next week's contests, their shot at reclaiming the House could suffer a major setback. It starts in the “jungle.” More specifically, California’s “jungle primary.” California conducts a “top two” primary system. A “jungle.” That means a pair of candidates – regardless of party – matriculate to the general election in November. It’s not guaranteed that there will be one Democrat and one Republican to emerge Tuesday and face one another in autumn. It could be a Democrat and a Republican. Or it could be two Democrats. Or, it could be two Republicans. DEMS STRUGGLING TO FLIP KEY CALIF. HOUSE SEATS Democrats boast built-in advantages in California. This is why Democrats relish the the idea of a top-two system. On its face, this is a boon in liberal enclaves and left-leaning districts. But strangely, Democrats could be a victim of their own success in the primary. President Trump fueled a flood of Democratic House candidates all over the country. Democratic interest surged in Democratic strongholds. Still, the party struggled to unify behind one or even two candidates in some of these districts. That means that Democratic voters will likely speckle their ballots for an array of candidates instead of just one. That dilutes Democratic votes. Yes, Democrats may collectively garner the most votes in some of these districts. But the fear is that two Republicans could squeak through as the top vote getters. Republicans could effectively block Democrats from the ballot in November as infighting splinters the left. It's another sign of Democratic problems this cycle. In December, Democrats enjoyed a 13-point advantage over Republicans in the national generic ballot for Congress. That edge plummeted to just 3 or 4 points now. Chatter about a Democratic wave is diminishing. If the election were held today, Democrats would need to flip a net of 22 seats to secure control of the House. Democrats could make up a lot of that ground in California alone. California is a Democratic state. With immigration and DACA front and center, Democrats are angling for the seats held by retiring GOP Reps. Ed Royce and Darrell Issa. Democrats came close to knocking off Issa in 2016. Then there are also major races against GOP Reps. Steve Knight, David Valadao, Jeff Denham, Mimi Walters, Dana Rohrabacher and Duncan Hunter Jr. Democrats hope to unseat Rohrabacher over perceptions he’s aligned too closely with Russia. Hillary Clinton narrowly carried Denham’s district and won Valadao’s district by 15 points. Clinton topped Trump by 17 points in Walters’ district. Ethics clouds loom over Hunter. Democrats are poised to excoriate California Republicans who voted yea on the tax reform bill. Rohrabacher voted nay on the final version of the tax package. Issa did, too, but he’s not running again. Democrats likely need to flip at least five if not all of these California seats to have a legitimate path toward winning the House in November. But any shot Democrats could have may disintegrate if their supporters scatter their votes Tuesday. That could propel Republicans to the top two slots in the jungle primary and doom the Democrats long before November arrives. Success in California on either the Democratic or Republican side of the aisle could have consequences for leadership on Capitol Hill next year. Big Democratic wins in California could catapult House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., back to the speakership. Major losses could mean curtains for the San Francisco Democrat. There’s also risk for House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif. Delivering GOP upsets in the jungle primary would solidify McCarthy as the odds-on successor to retiring House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis. -- should Republicans retain the House. The downside for McCarthy isn’t as significant as Pelosi’s. But a poor performance by Republicans in California certainly doesn’t help McCarthy’s leadership aspirations. No one is quite sure which way the midterms could go. Any honest Republican will tell you that they were reasonably sure 2006 was going be a bloodbath for their party by late spring/early summer of that year. Republicans are certainly worried right now. But not petrified. It’s also a stretch to divine too much from the results of recent House special elections. Democrats finally nabbed a special election victory in March with a win by Rep. Conor Lamb, D-Pa. Democrats didn’t capture special elections for House seats in Kansas, Georgia, Montana, South Carolina and, more recently, Arizona. All were Republican seats to start with. But Democrats made all of those races more competitive than they should have been. However, there may be a singular, pertinent takeaway from those special elections and what they mean to the midterms: Democrats will likely run stronger on historic GOP turf than they have in the past. But like the special elections revealed, making those contests closer may not be enough to covert customary Republican seats into Democratic gains. Tuesday’s jungle primary may not portend a total disaster for Democrats come November even if things don’t go their way. There are certainly lots of seats Democrats can try to flip in Pennsylvania. There are a few seats in play in North Carolina and Florida, along with various seats in Colorado, Indiana, New Mexico, Washington and Nevada. But California is California. No state delivers a prize as grand. If Democrats botch the jungle primary, they may be destined to wander in the wilderness. Capitol Attitude is a weekly column written by members of the Fox News Capitol Hill team. Their articles take you inside the halls of Congress, and cover the spectrum of policy issues being introduced, debated and voted on there.
NEW YORK (AP) — Walmart is unveiling a $50-a-month membership service that lets harried shoppers use text messages to order items to be home delivered. Jetblack marks the latest effort by the nation's largest retailer to cater to higher-income shoppers. It's being tested in Manhattan and parts of Brooklyn. The service will offer same-day and next day delivery at no extra charge. It allows shoppers to order everything from birthday gifts to household essentials based on curated shopping recommendations. The everyday items will be sourced from Walmart and Jet.com. For specialty items, Walmart is working with stores like Pottery Barn and Saks Fifth Avenue. The service, which is currently invite-only, is being led by Rent the Runway visionary Jenny Fleiss.
On Tuesday, NBC reporter Stephanie Gosk slammed CNN hosts for the excess hype in bringing attention to a letter that was received from the Trump administration by a retired schoolteacher. The letter was so riddled with grammar and spelling errors that the retired schoolteacher proceeded to “grade” the letter. Gosk appeared on NBC's Megyn Kelly Today on Tuesday, where she criticized CNN hosts who she feels went out of their way in order to bring attention to the letter that was apparently riddled with errors. “We are missing the larger point. And this went viral and everyone went insane because everyone goes insane all the time with this White House. But let’s get to the real issues and take all of that energy and pour it into stuff that matters,” Gosk told Kelly. Kelly responded: “She did a good job of making her letter go viral though (NewsBusters)." Just prior to the Megyn Kelly Today on May 29th, CNN’s New Day hosts John Berman and Alisyn Camerota featured an extensive interview with the recipient of the letter, retired school teacher Yvonne Mason. Yvonne Mason was prompted to write the original letter in response to the Parkland massacre, where she expressed her grief at the way the victims of the massacre were treated. She received a letter in response, which she claims was so riddled with errors that she proceeded to “grade” the letter and send it back. After she proceeded to correct and “grade” the letter, Mason proceeded to mail it back. Mason even included a snarky note at the top of the letter where she wrote “Have y’all tried grammar and style check?” During the interview, Mason expressed that she was bothered by certain words being capitalized where they should not have been. However, Berman pointed out that there are certain situations where style guides allow for those capitalizations. The interview ended with hosts speculating that President Trump would tweet a response to the situation. This was not the first time that CNN had attempted to bring attention to Mason’s letter. On Sunday, May 27, CNN’s New Day initially attempted to hype the letter Mason received. CNN was not the first to feature the story. CNN picked up the story from left-leaning outlet, the Huffington Post, who picked up the story from The Hill. According to the Hill report, Mason is a resident of Atlanta who taught high school students in South Carolina for 17 years.
ABC Entertainment has canceled the revival of its hit show Roseanne after actress Roseanne Barr posted a racist tweet describing former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett as the product of the Muslim Brotherhood and Planet of the Apes. “Roseanne’s Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show,” ABC Entertainment president Channing Dungey said Tuesday. Barr had apologized for the tweet, claiming that it was a “bad joke” that was “in bad taste,” after she was hit with immediate backlash for her racist remark. “I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans. I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks,” Barr said. “I should have known better. Forgive me-my joke was in bad taste.” The show, which was rebooted in March following a 21-year absence, attracted huge viewership and won praise for its promotion of traditional family values. Disney Chairman Bob Iger chimed in on the decision to yank Roseanne off the air, taking to Twitter on Tuesday, writing, “Roseanne’s Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show.” “There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing,” Iger added. From Channing Dungey, President of ABC Entertainment: "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show." There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing. — Robert Iger (@RobertIger) May 29, 2018 Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.
The global design and architecture consultants, CallisonRTKL, will move to the entire 16th floor of The Woolworth Building. The company has leased 28,096 square feet for 10 years at the 60-story landmark property, which has an official address of 233 Broadway, where it will relocate from two floors at 148 Lafayette St. CallisonRTKL was represented by Mitchell Konsker and David Dusek of JLL. The Cammeby’s International/Witkoff group ownership was represented by Brian Siegel, David Ofman and Thomas Hettler of The Lawrence Group. The asking rent is $57.50 per square foot. Earlier this month, CRTKL, which designs for Nordstrom among others, was ranked as the No. 1 retail design firm for the second year in a row by Visual Merchandising and Store Design magazine. The top 30 floors of the landmarked Woolworth Building are being converted to stunning, large condominium apartments by Ken Horn of Alchemy Properties. Its topmost pinnacle, with 9,563 square feet over eight floors, is still available for about $110 million. It sits prominently across from City Hall Park, and its U-shaped floors provide lots of light. Designed by Cass Gilbert, the Gothic Revival skyscraper was the tallest building in the world when it opened in 1913. The Trump Building at 40 Wall St. passed it by in 1930.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. There it goes again. The American Lung Association (ALA) is out with its annual “State of the Air” report. And, true to form, it plays fast and loose with the facts to once more smear the air quality in Greater Pittsburgh as the eighth worst in the country for particulate pollution. “The Lung Association’s latest report, and the headlines that immediately followed, give the impression that air quality in the Pittsburgh area has gotten worse over the last few years,” say Frank Gamrat, senior research associate, and Jake Haulk, president of the Pittsburgh think tank. “But, in fact, the opposite is true,” the Ph.D. economists conclude (in Policy Brief Vol. 18, No. 21). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) measures air quality using monitors placed around the region. The “Pittsburgh region” encompasses 12 counties in three states – Jefferson in Ohio; Brooke and Hancock in West Virginia and Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette, Indiana, Lawrence, Washington and Westmoreland in Southwest Pennsylvania. Nineteen EPA monitors provide 29 readings. Some counties – Allegheny, Washington, Jefferson and Brooke – have multiple monitors. Four – Butler, Fayette, Indiana and Lawrence – have none. The EPA has set the “critical level” of particulates at 12 micrograms per cubic meter of air to protect asthmatics, children and the elderly. That level is set at 15 micrograms when it comes to protecting visibility and damage to animals, crops, vegetation and buildings. It must be noted that as air quality has improved, the EPA’S critical threshold has changed dramatically since the Clean Air Act went into effect in 1971. Then, the critical levels were 75 and 60 micrograms, respectively, calculated on an annual geometric mean. Both primary and secondary standards were lowered to 15 micrograms in 1997 and calculated as an annual mean averaged over three years. The primary standard was lowered to 12 micrograms in 2012. “The point being that the standards have been tightened over the years to reflect the major improvements in air quality” nationwide and locally, Gamrat and Haulk note. Indeed, the ALA, while ranking the Pittsburgh region eighth out of 187 metro areas for annual particulate pollution, notes that the region’s overall air quality has improved since 2000, a detail left out of some media reports. But the ALA also cherry picks the data to misrepresent the facts. “Amazingly, the Lung Association’s report assigns Allegheny County a failing grade on its particulate matter levels due to the readings at the Liberty (Borough) monitor,” the think tank scholars say. “The other seven monitors and their eight readings were well in compliance, averaging 9.6 particles per cubic meter.” That made the county the only one of 12 to receive a “fail” from the ALA. But, “Even at the offending monitor the levels are just above the critical level – a critical level that had been lowered five years ago,” Gamrat and Haulk remind. “The smear campaign is unjustified and does not reflect the progress the area has made in improving its air quality.” And that has a cascading effect. “How much money will the folks charged with trying to attract businesses have to spend to offset the annual barrage of misleading news about the area’s air quality?” the Allegheny Institute scholars ask. “What will Amazon think? Presumably it and other companies are smart enough to have studied the Lung Association’s rating system and found it to be flawed.”
No matter how you look at it, the "Roseanne" reboot was a success. Its hour long season premiere on ABC Tuesday stood atop the ratings by adults 18-49 and total viewers. It is the highest-rated sitcom broadcast in over three years, according to The Hollywood Reporter. It was "stunning." One of the running gags of the season premiere, which aired over 20 years after the original show's series finale, was the feud between Roseanne and her sister Jackie over their preferred candidates in the 2016 election. "What's up deplorable?" Jackie greeted her sister, while wearing a "Nasty Woman" t-shirt and a pink p***y hat. As for the title character, she was a diehard Donald Trump supporter, calling Hillary Clinton "liar liar pants on fire" and noting that Jackie was "dead" to her after she voted for the Democrat. Neither sister mentioned the candidates' actual names. The nonstop digs were hilarious, particularly when Roseanne announced to her family she was about to say grace and invited Jackie to "take a knee." Knowing Jackie would cringe, Roseanne concluded her prayer by saying, "Most of all, thank you for Making America Great Again!" There were also zingers on some specific policies. Jackie wanted to give free health care to everyone because she "can't do simple math," Roseanne told her sister. Part of the show's charm was that Roseanne Barr is an outspoken Trump supporter off camera as well. Just last week, she told Jimmy Kimmel to shove it for questioning her approval of the president and her criticism of Clinton. "Zip your f***ing lip!" she said at one point. It was great to see that all the characters on "Roseanne" still maintained their signature demeanors, as if they picked up where they left audiences two decades earlier. Other subplots during the two-episode premiere included Becky's wish to be a surrogate mother, Darlene's financial struggles and Dan's wish to make a man out of his effeminate grandson. "Roseanne's" extremely realistic family dynamics, particularly where politics are concerned, will resonate with most audiences. At the very least, it will keep them laughing.
While the authors of the Anti Federalist Papers held caution and opposition to the new constitution, they did hold much of a similar vision for the future of the compacted Colonies. “A confederacy of republics must be the establishment in America,” writes the Old Whig in the Anti Federalist No. 18. He continues, “In this country perhaps we are possessed of more than our share of political virtue. If we will exercise a little patience and bestow our best endeavors on the business, I do not think it impossible, that we may yet form a federal constitution much superior to any form of government which has ever existed in the world.” The father of Austrian economics, Ludwig von Mises, eloquently acknowledged this in 1922 when he wrote that: "State interference in economic life, which calls itself “economic policy,” has done nothing but destroy economic life. Prohibitions and regulations have by their general obstructive tendency fostered the growth of the spirit of wastefulness." Calvin Coolidge declares, “The American Revolution represented the informed and mature convictions of a great mass of independent, liberty-loving, God-fearing people who knew their rights, and possessed the courage to dare to maintain them.” But America was not without warning, as John Adams stated. If the citizens of the United States abandoned the freedom granted by the establishment of the Constitution then it would be “treason against the hopes of the world.” Additionally, President John F. Kennedy had prepared to issue a similar warning, only to be assassinated before he could deliver it. He was to tell us: "We in this country, in this generation, are – by destiny rather than choice – the watchmen on the walls of world freedom. We ask, therefore, that we may be worthy of our power and responsibility, that we may exercise our strength with wisdom and restraint, and that we may achieve in our time and for all time the ancient vision of "peace on earth, good will toward men." That must always be our goal, and the righteousness of our cause must always underlie our strength. For as was written long ago: "except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain."" As history has shown again and again, tyranny is the most common state of government, and it continually creeps in if not kept in check by vigilance and reliance on the Divine. On Christmas Eve of 1776, George Washington was on the west bank of the Delaware River with only a few thousand soldiers freezing in the winter weather, and 1,500 of those men soon would be quitting because their enlistments were completed. The American Revolution had nearly all but ended in defeat as Washington had lost seven battles in a row. But instead of admitting defeat to tyrants, General Washington decided to take one last offensive; the now famous crossing of the Delaware. But before Washington had his beleaguered troops cross the river that night, he had read to them Thomas Paine’s The American Crisis: "Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered; yet we have this consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. What we obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly: “Tis dearness only that gives everything its value. Heaven knows how to set proper price upon its goods; and it would be strange indeed, if so celestial an article as freedom should not be highly rated…” History has always proven that governments work toward increasing their own power and decreasing the individual’s liberty. Our Founders understood this in principle, practice and from history, and Colonial Minister James Dana alerted, “You cannot have too jealous an eye on tyranny under every form; nor can your zeal be better employed than against the means of it.” Austrian Economist Hans-Hermann Hoppe brilliantly describes the purpose, but failure, of the State in its common and historical state: "[The State] is supposed to produce justice, i.e., to uphold and enforce the law, but with the power to legislate the State can – and inevitably will – break the law and make law in its own favor and so produce instead injustice and moral corruption. And the State is supposed to protect the property of its subjects from foreign invasion, but with the power to tax its subjects it can – and inevitably will – expropriate the property of these subjects not, obviously enough, to protect them and their property, but to ‘protect’ itself and its expropriations against any so-called “invader,” foreign or domestic. As an “expropriating property protector,” i.e., as a fundamentally “parasitic” institution, the State can never help but will always hinder in the production of wealth and so lower capita incomes." The Light of Liberty must be continually fought for; and when Americans can and do put their effort into business, this liberty produces prosperity.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. The first hour of the Brian Kilmeade Radio Show on FOX News Talk 9am-Noon Eastern M-F.
Editor's Note: This interview was conducted by Townhall Media Account Executive Jack Little. Bertrand Russell famously said, “All movements go too far.” Regardless of how one feels about gay marriage, the logic seems to be supremely lacking in the statement: If a man can marry a man, society should also accept that, a man can become a woman. Not only is the logic lacking, but so is the science. That’s what Ryan Anderson argues in his new book, “When Harry Became Sally: Responding to the Transgender Movement.” In a recent phone interview, Ryan and I spoke about why transgenderism has the potential to be one of the biggest political wedge issues in the 2020 elections, and beyond. Jack Little: A lot of this simply seems like really bad medicine. To me, that’s the strongest argument against this transgender movement. The effects of “transitioning” to a different gender are drastic on the human body, and yet the hurdles to go on this are far less. To me, that seems extremely dangerous. Can you comment on that? Ryan Anderson: The third chapter, several of the people that transitioned and then de-transitioned, more or less say the exact same thing as what you just said. It was only after three months of meeting with the “gender specialist,” it was only a once monthly visit, so after three or four visits they were prescribed testosterone, with no meaningful attempt to identify let alone discuss psychosocial possible causes or possible solutions. So what you just said is exactly what the testimony of people who have undergone this therapy and then regretted it, and wanted to de-transition, have said. It’s also the testimony of some of the medical doctors. You see people like Dr. Michelle Cretella saying, “Wait a minute, we wouldn’t do this for any other situation, prescribe drugs like this at these dosages on such a limited diagnostic set of criteria, so why are we doing it now?” JL: Why are they doing it? It must be because it’s politicized and there is political pressure, right? RA: I think more it’s an ideological commitment. There is a certain worldview here. There’s a certain vision of the human person, and of the human body, and of modern medicine. And it’s a vision that sees the body as something that’s very malleable, and there aren’t facts about human nature, and that modern science isn’t about restoring health. In many cases its about transforming bodies, to the desires of the patient. It’s that vision of the human person, and that vision of modern medicine, when you combine those two things, it’s not hard to see where some of these therapeutic approaches come from. JL: It’s weird though because, of all professions, you would assume, the one that understands the non-malleability of the human body is doctors. In college, I was an English and Communication Studies double major at a liberal, liberal arts college, so all day long I was fed “gender is just a performance.” And I can understand that point of view coming from the humanities in academia, but not doctors. I would think that they have the greatest grasp. How do you think this post-modern perspective weaved its way into hard objective science? RA: Well because, there is self-selection here…. So many of the people that are speaking out against this are the objective, fact based, medicine science people you are talking about… But many of the people of that go into “gender based” medicine, you know 45 pediatric gender clinics have opened in the past decade, it’s somewhat self-selecting of who chooses to specialize in gender therapy, who chooses to be the director of a pediatric gender clinic. And then its other people, where this isn’t their specialty, and they hear about what’s going on, and they say, this isn’t fact based! So they look into it. And they say look we’re just going to do a literature review of all the existing literature on sexuality and gender - and they then point out all the flaws. Like that the claims being made for “what science shows,” science doesn’t actually show. And then they get attacked by the “gender experts.” So there is somewhat of a self-selection factor going on which skews the outcome. JL: The most devastating statistic that I found in your book, it’s listed more than one time, “85% of people with gender dysphoria grow out of it.” It seems to me like maybe this is being covered up? Is this statistic in dispute? RA: So the activists want to attack that statistic, they want to say it’s not accurate. I quote from (Lawrence S.) Mayer and (Paul R.) McHugh saying, “All credible experts acknowledge this fact.” But then you have people on the left politically, who are activists on these issues, saying all these people who desisted, they were never transgender to begin with. So it almost becomes a self fulfilling diagnosis. The only people who accurately are diagnosed with gender dysphoria, and are transgender, are those who persist in their identification. You can google some of the debates on desistance and you’ll see people on the left saying it’s all wrong. And that’s where I quote Jesse Singal, Senior Editor for New York Magazine, who points out that people on the left all attack these desistance numbers, but there is actually a very sizable, rigorous body of research that shows this. JL: Do you feel like a lot of these people that transition, and are being encouraged to transition, are being used, politically? Why are people so heroized for transitioning? RA: So sometimes I think it’s people that haven’t thought too much about this. So especially the media. It went from the LGB to the T part of acronym. As soon as marriage equality was accomplished, people were like, “Look I’m a good social justice person, I’m a good LGBT ally. We just did marriage equality. Now we have to do transgender.” But people never really stopped to think, “What does the T in acronym really mean?” You know what does it mean, especially if we’re talking about children. I think for other people it’s an ideological commitment. They want it to be the case that there is not meaning to the human body. That human nature is malleable. They want these new therapeutic techniques to be successful because they want to be in the type of universe in which the body has no meaning. JL: So I’ve been in the conservative movement for ten years, but I do support gay marriage. It’s not super uncommon for conservative millennials to support gay marriage. However, the thing that baffled me is that, I really have a problem with this transgender movement. And I don’t see it as the logical “next step.” And I was wondering, do you see this as a potential wedge issue? RA: You’re seeing more and more people saying exactly what you just said. Look if two men love each other and want to live with each other I have no objection to that. It doesn’t harm anyone, it doesn’t get in the way. You know I personally disagree with that. You and I disagree about gay marriage, and that’s fine. But you see people who will say you know, I’m personally in favor of gay marriage, for all those reasons I just cited. But wait, the idea that a man can be a woman, or a woman can be a man, or man can become a woman or more radically that children can do that. People are like, this isn’t the same thing. This isn’t just about who do you love, and who do you want to live with. This is about transforming who you are, not just living a certain way. I mention at one point that I had hosted an event at the Heritage Foundation, with a board member of the Women’s Liberation Front feminist organization and with the first woman to be reinstated into the military after “don’t ask don’t tell,” and they both said at certain points, "I can’t believe I’m about to say this but, thank you to the Heritage Foundation for hosting me." A lesbian activist reinstated into the military and a feminist board member, both said: “We think that, when gender identity wins, women lose.”
A former homeless man is doing all he can to make sure no more veterans are living on the streets. Ken Leslie, once homeless himself, founded Veterans Matter six years ago in Toledo, Ohio originally to help 35 local veterans get housing. But it quickly grew into a national, grassroots organization helping thousands of veterans across the nation. “Thanks to so many Americans who care, it thrills us to know that over 2,100 formerly homeless veterans in 18 states will be able to honor their fallen comrades this Memorial Day in a place called home,” Leslie told Fox News. Their current push, #Mission1000More, is to get 1,000 veterans housed before the end of the year. “With over 40,000 veterans still on the streets, our mission is simple: to house as many veterans as we can as quickly as we can,” Leslie said. To streamline the process, Veterans Matter partners with the Veteran’s Affairs Homeless Veterans program to identify vets who need shelter and bypasses the customary security deposit within minutes instead of the typical wait time of 30 to 60 days. “Because of our partnership with the VA, every dollar we deploy results in a veteran housed in long-term HUD-VA housing, which has a 91% success rate keeping them housed,” Leslie added. The movement to help America’s veterans get homes has garnered celebrity support from singers like Willie Nelson, John Mellencamp, Dusty Hill of ZZ Top, Darius Rucker, Jennifer Nettles, Kid Rock, and more. One veteran the organization helped who found a home after three years of being homeless was brought to tears minutes after he received the key to his new home. “You know…I realized I have my own apartment and a key in my pocket. I know where I will sleep tonight. It seems like the stress of years of homelessness has been lifted off my shoulders,” the veteran said. “Thank you for helping me.”
For 10 years Donna Pollard was silent. She didn’t speak out about the physical and mental abuse she says she endured during her three-year marriage to a man 15 years her senior. “I didn’t have an opportunity to be a child, he took that,” said Pollard. “He began grooming me when I was only 14 years old.” A Kentucky native, Pollard, now 34, was wed at 16 to someone she now calls her predator. To many, child marriage sounds like a very distant problem. But across the U.S., about 248,000 children as young as 12 were forced to marry between the years 2000 and 2010, according to marriage-license data compiled and analyzed by Unchained At Last, a nonprofit that helps girls escape child marriages. But states are now toughening laws that would ban these type of marriages. This month, Delaware became the first state to impose a minimum marriage age of 18. Gov. John Carney, a Democrat, signed the bill into law May 9. Those fighting to end child marriages say states are finally recognizing a problem that has long hurt mostly young girls. Forty nine states allow children 17 and under to marry under certain circumstances, many times if a parent or judge approves of it. Advocates of child marriage bans claim it strips kids of their youth – and states should be doing more to fight against those types of nuptials. “If you're trying to end a human rights abuse why would you carve out an exception for the people most affected?” said Fraidy Reiss, executive director of Unchained at Last. As a survivor of what she calls a 12-year forced marriage, and the founder of Unchained At Last, Reiss said laws need to toughen up to protect the most vulnerable. Kentucky recently passed a bill setting the marriage age limit at 17. The law requires that minors must have a GED or diploma in order to marry. But Reiss said those types of laws are not tough enough. “I’m going to say no thank you to those states,” said Reiss, “Go back and try again.” New Jersey was also trying to raise the marriage age limit to 18. But the measure stalled this week following a backlash by the orthodox Jewish community. Those who criticize raising the age limit call the efforts draconian and a violation of some cultural and religious customs. They also say the government should not meddle with the sacrament of marriage. Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who vetoed a measure last year to raise the age limit to 18, said the proposal is hypocritical. “It is disingenuous to hold that a 16-year-old may never consent to marriage, although New Jersey law permits the very same 16-year-old to consent to sex or obtain an abortion without so much as parental knowledge, let alone consent,” Christie said last year. “That inconsistency in logic undercuts the alleged logic of an outright ban.” State Assemblyman Gary Schaer, D-Passaic, told NJ Advance Media the current proposal is too rigid and would not withstand legal challenges. "There are no special exceptions, no court involvement, no recognition of religious or ethnic tradition. It seems to me the bill could be made better and more representative of the communities throughout the state," Schaer told the website. "I think the bill will almost certainly face lawsuits, and the bill can easily be improved without losing the importance of its message." At least 20 states have no minimum age set by statute. During the last two years, New York, Florida, Kentucky, Texas, Virginia, Connecticut and New Hampshire have raised their minimum marriage age to 16 or 17, with at least seven more states considering legislation to tighten their rules. Those who favor raising the age argue that underage minors do not have the same legal rights as their older partner. Minors are unable to sign binding contracts such as housing agreements, secure schooling, file for divorce, and in some cases are not yet old enough to drive. “I was trapped,” said Pollard, who said she was rejected from housing shelters because of her age. Experts and advocates say those who marry young are less likely to finish school and are vulnerable to abuse. They also say early marriage imposes social, educational and financial burdens on teenage girls. “We have a situation wherein most U.S. states, a girl can marry but can't even file for divorce,” said Reiss. “What a way to put the ‘lock’ in wedlock, this is a real problem.” But Delaware University Sociologist Chrysanthi Leon warns that long-standing conservative traditions may slow bills similar to the one his state recently passed. State legislators, Leon said, tend to protect family rights over government intervention. “The only thing I would caution is we do tend to see unintentional harm, especially with symbolic laws [like H.B. 337],” said Leon, “We often see the vulnerable made more vulnerable depending on how these laws are enforced.” According to Leon, efforts to protect young brides or grooms can have an adverse effect, placing additional blame on the victim or making them more vulnerable to prosecution. But for people like Pollard, the passing of the Delaware law is just the beginning. “One down,” she said, “and 49 more to go.”
Sun Sentinel: Governor: ‘Work to do’ for Florida to recover after Irma Parts of Florida inched back toward normal with workers restoring power, clearing roads and replenishing gas supplies, even as teams scoured the state’s southernmost islands and authorities warned of mass devastation. Residents drifted back from shelters and far-away havens Tuesday to see Hurricane Irma’s scattershot destruction. Flooded streets remained, and the count of damaged and totaled homes ticked upward even as some curfews were lifted, flights resumed and amusement park rides again twirled. “Everything’s gone,” said Jen Gilreath, a 33-year-old bartender whose Jacksonville home filled with knee-high floodwaters. As crews labored to repair the lone highway connecting the Keys, residents of some of the islands closest to Florida’s mainland were allowed to return and get their first look at the devastation two days after Irma roared in with 130 mph (209 kph) winds. Palm Beach Post: Gasoline supplies flow, but more shortages possible as exodus reverses Before Hurricane Irma , gas stations ran out of fuel as frightened Floridians stocked up on petrol. After the storm, fuel shortages will shift from neighborhood stations to a new venue — gas pumps along Interstate 95, Interstate 75 and Florida’s Turnpike. Irma sparked the largest evacuation in state history, and now those who fled are returning en masse. “We had almost 6 million people forced to evacuate their homes before Irma, which means we’ll have 6 million people coming back into the state in the coming days,” said James Miller of the Florida Petroleum Marketers and Convenience Store Association. Tampa Bay Times: When life (and a hurricane) gave her neighbors lemons, this girl made lemonade Danika Kubiak is no stranger to the lemonade business. When her neighbor’s dog ate her retainer last year, Danika set up on their block. She asked for donations. She raised $15. Anything to lower that orthodonture bill, right? So when the freckled-nose 7-year-old woke up on Tuesday and realized some of her neighbors still didn’t have power, she went up and down 14th Avenue NE, knocking on doors. “Would you like to do a lemonade stand?” she asked Meara Hill, still in her pajamas. The 8-year-old said sure, and they added coffee and power strips to the mix. “I thought this might help,” said Danika, standing outside their two-story house with plywood still on the windows. “I’m really thirsty!” yelled a woman slowing her Toyota in the street. “Lemonade or coffee?” Danika shouted back, then asked if she’d like ice. Helping her neighbors was as much a help to Danika, 36 hours after Irma made her bedroom window rattle. She had never experienced a hurricane, living in the Old Northeast all her life. She had tried to stay busy in the hours leading up to the storm, walking to the bay to see where the water had receded. She watched so much Berenstain Bears that her mother memorized the theme song.
A Utah dog owner is facing nearly 30 misdemeanor charges after her 4-year-old husky was caught on video carrying out an animal killing spree in one of her neighbor’s yards. Surveillance footage taken by Tooele homeowner Trip Kiss – who with his wife runs a petting zoo for children with disabilities – shows Mackenzie Morton’s dog, Nikita, running amok in the early morning hours of Memorial Day. "He was chewing our goose that was at the back end there, he dug out the rabbits in their enclosure," Kiss told Fox 13, noting that the animal had managed to kill “two rabbits, two ducks, five chickens, a turkey, [and] a goose” before leaving the property. Kiss said at one point he spotted the dog – who scattered the dead animals in a two-block radius around his home – with one of his chickens in its jaws. "The dog continued to chew on it, and it died in the dog's mouth, and he dropped it," Kiss said. Police managed to capture the dog hours later. Tooele Police Sgt. Jeremy Hansen told Fox 13 that “a second lady from a couple houses down came and told the officers that 15 of her chickens had also been killed by the same animal.” Morton said the dog had vanished from her boyfriend’s home nearby, late at night, and that it was dark outside. She told the station that she found a few dead chickens in a neighbor’s yard but no signs of Nikita, and ended up leaving her door cracked open, hoping for the husky to eventually return. "I didn't think she was going to go on a killing spree," Morton said. "I did not know that, at all." Morton apologized and claimed the dog has never acted like that before. She intends to pay around $1,350 in damages. But Kiss said he still feels “anger toward the owner, because she could have prevented this.” Morton was charged with a single misdemeanor count of animal running at large and 27 misdemeanor counts for every animal the dog attacked. She could face additional charges. Nikita, meanwhile, is quarantined at a local animal shelter. An upcoming administrative hearing between police officials and Morton will decide the dog’s fate, Fox 13 reported.
Flathead County District Court in Montana issued a preliminary injunction Thursday restoring the state’s school choice program after a new Department of Revenue rule had blocked families from using tax-credit scholarships to attend religiously affiliated schools. The injunction will remain in place until further action by the court. “When you exclude the religious school segment of the school marketplace, you are severely limiting the number of options where parents can send their children,” said Dick Komer, a senior attorney at the Institute for Justice. The statute creating the school choice program, enacted in May 2015, allows qualifying students to go to any private school, many of which are have a religious affiliation, Komer said. “By taking this step of writing an administrative rule, the DOR was acting, to put it in Latin, ultra vires, meaning acting on its own outside its delegated authority,” Komer said. “This is an unusual case for us. Normally, the legislature writes the statute and the DOR writes the rules to make the program work,” said Komer. “The state pre-emptively wrote a rule to prevent the program from working.” IJ filed the lawsuit against the DOR on Dec. 16. The plaintiffs represented by IJ are three mothers who want to send their children to Stillwater Christian School who wanted to apply for the state’s tax credit scholarship program. The tax-credit scholarship is Montana’s first school choice program. It provides a credit of up to $150 annually to individuals and businesses that donate to private scholarship organizations. Those organizations then provide scholarships that allow families to send their children to private schools. Tax revenue is forgone, but no state money is spent. In its new rule, the DOR said it had the authority under the state constitution to exclude religious schools from the program. At least for now, the court disagreed. Similar programs have passed court muster in other states. Kendra Espinoza, one of the plaintiffs, was elated by the preliminary injunction. She took on a second job last year and fundraised so she could keep her two daughters in Stillwater Christian School. “I am excited, relieved and so very grateful that my two daughters now have a chance at getting scholarships!” Espinoza said in a prepared statement. Komer said IJ will seek a permanent injunction to block the rule.
The beef just got bigger: Pusha T claimed in a new song that Drake has a love child named Adonis with an ex-porn star. In “The Story of Adidon,” which dropped Tuesday night, the G.O.O.D Music rapper alleges that Drake, 31, fathered a son with a former adult actress named Sophie Brussaux. Drake was photographed with Brussaux in January 2017. In May 2017, she claimed she was pregnant with his child, TMZ reported, and alleged that he urged her to have an abortion. At the time, Drake’s rep told TMZ, “This woman has a very questionable background. She has admitted to having multiple relationships. We understand she may have problems getting into the United States. She’s one of many women claiming he got them pregnant. If it is in fact Drake’s child, which he does not believe, he would do the right thing by the child.” A source close to Drake voiced serious doubts to Page Six that he was the father of Brussaux’s child, but said that if he was, he’d step up for the child. Pusha referenced the scandal in his track. “Since you name-dropped my fiancée / Let ’em know who you chose as your Beyoncé / Sophie knows better, ask your baby mother / Cleaned her up for IG, but the stench is on her / A baby’s involved, it’s deeper than rap / We talkin’ character, let me keep with the facts / You are hidin’ a child, let that boy come home / Deadbeat motherf—ker playin’ border patrol,” Pusha raps in the song. “Adonis is your son / And he deserves more than an Adidas press run, that’s real / Love that baby, respect that girl / Forget she’s a porn star, let her be your world.” Brussaux’s Instagram account has since been made private (perhaps what Pusha referenced with “cleaned her up for IG”), though a fan account has posted several photos that were on her page previously, including one of her showing off her bump at her baby shower. A post shared by Sophie Brussaux (@sophiebrussaux) on Oct 19, 2017 at 9:21am PDT The diss track is just the latest in a war of words between the rappers. In Pusha T’s track “Infrared” off his album “Daytona,” released Friday, he resurrected rumors that Drake uses ghostwriter Quentin Miller, rapping, “The lyric pennin’ equal the Trumps winnin’/ The bigger question is how the Russians did it / It was written like Nas, but it came from Quentin.” Drake retaliated with the instantly viral “Duppy Freestyle” on Friday, in which he references Pusha T’s engagement to Virginia Williams as well as Kanye West, who produced much of “Daytona.” Pusha told “Ebro in the Morning” last week that his feud with Drake began after Drake questioned his past as an alleged drug dealer in his track “Two Birds, One Stone.” “A lot of talk about the record, or whatever the case may be … I guess, just speaking his truth, questioning my validity to the streets and so on and so forth within that verse,” Pusha said. “It’s fine. That’s what it was. But if we’re gonna question things, it’s my turn to question.” A rep for Drake declined to comment on his potential paternity. Related Video 1:17 Drake got on Page Six by kissing Rihanna
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. I'm Ashley Dvorkin with a FOX Celebrity Profile on Cameron Monaghan as things wrap up on Season 4 of 'Gotham' and as his joker persona is revealed through the plot twist of twin brothers! (Monaghan) "We wanted to sort of mess with the concept of identity a little bit with the Joker." He adds they wanted to update the concept: (Monaghan) "76 years ago however long it was when the Joker was created, the idea of a young angry man who feels like he's been slighted by the world and is destroying things and bombing things and causing destruction and chaos that had different connotations than it does now that feels a lot more familiar to audiences. And I think we wanted to update the idea that radical ideology can spread fast. That kind of destruction can inspire other people and that's scary." And coming up next, one of the biggest changes on the show: (Monaghan) "... in the sense that as dark or as violent as the show has been before it is usually in an irreverent sort of self aware kind of way but with these episodes we're seeing real stakes." Ashley Dvorkin, FOX News. Follow Ashley Dvorkin on Twitter: @AshleyDvorkin
Fashion insiders were horrified when a stylist sent out a mass email discussing the finances of a client, “Bang Bang” singer Jessie J. We’re told that London-based Zadrian Smith — who’s dressed stars including new “Solo: A Star Wars Story” actress Lily Newmark — emailed designers across the globe saying that he was “no longer working with” the star “due to an issue regarding the inability to provide appropriate budget for the services being provided.” Industry insiders called the unusual move needlessly gauche. Although there was no reference to it in the email, a rep for Smith claimed that the message was about a specific event — which they declined to name or even describe — and that “the budgets were set forth by the organizer of the event and ultimately, were simply below Zadrian’s normal working rate. This has nothing to do with budgets from Jessie J herself or her team, nor have we, as Zadrian’s reps, had any collection issues with them.” High-flying Jessie J just announced a fall tour to support her new album, “R.O.S.E.” Besides singing her own tunes, Jessie’s also become known for writing hits for other stars, including the Miley Cyrus smash “Party in the U.S.A.,” Chris Brown’s “I Need This” and “Repeat” for David Guetta.
Roseanne Barr lashed out at her sitcom son Wednesday for throwing her “under the bus” — after he “vehemently” condemned her racist tweetstorm. Michael Fishman, who played DJ Conner in the original series and its 2018 revival, tweeted that Tuesday was “one of the hardest” days in his life and that he was “devastated” — not for the end of the show, but for everyone who “poured their hearts and souls” into it. “Roseanne” was abruptly canceled by ABC Tuesday, after Barr compared former Obama aide Valerie Jarrett to an ape and called billionaire George Soros a “Nazi” who “turned on his fellow Jews.” “I condemn these statements vehemently,” Fishman wrote, adding that his character was “designed to represent the inclusive nature of my views.” But Barr was having none of it. “I created the platform for that inclusivity and you know it. ME. You throw me under the bus. Nice!” she responded Wednesday morning. Barr was more contrite with her TV daughter, actress Sara Gilbert, who played Darlene Conner. Gilbert called Barr’s comments “abhorrent” and said she was “disappointed in her actions to say the least.” “This is incredibly sad and difficult for all of us, as we’ve created a show that we believe in, are proud of, and that audiences love— one that is separate and apart from the opinions and words of one cast member,” she wrote. “Wow! Unreal,” Barr wrote in response, adding, “I understand her position and why she said what she said. I forgive her. It just shocked me a bit, but I indeed f—ed up.” Related Video 3:33 ABC cancels 'Roseanne' after racist tweets
First lady Melania Trump took to Twitter on Wednesday to dispel rumors about her health, which have swirled following her kidney surgery earlier this month. “I see the media is working overtime speculating where I am & what I’m doing,” the first lady tweeted. “Rest assured, I’m here at the @WhiteHouse w/my family, feeling great, & working hard on behalf of children & the American people!” Trump, 48, has not been seen in public since May 10, four days before she underwent the procedure at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center on May 14. However, she was spotted around the White House as recently as Tuesday afternoon. “Not that this will deter the conspiracy theorists, but I saw the First Lady walking with her aides in the West Wing yesterday afternoon,” CNBC correspondent Eamon Javers tweeted on Wednesday.
Singer Clay Aiken called on MSNBC to fire Joy Reid Thursday amid new revelations that the AM Joy host published a photoshopped image of Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) as the Virginia Tech gunman on her former blog. “Ok. I’m truly over it with this mess. First the homophobic posts, then the 9/11 ‘Truther’ posts, and now this nonsense with manipulating images,” Aiken fumed. “And watch @JoyAnnReid blame this on a hacker… or better yet… Ambien. It’s time for her to go too.” Ok. I'm truly over it with this mess. First the homophobic posts, then the 9/11 "Truther" posts, and now this nonsense with manipulating images. And watch @JoyAnnReid blame this on a hacker… or better yet… Ambien. It's time for her to go too. https://t.co/MDttdpM50p — Clay Aiken (@clayaiken) May 31, 2018 In replies to his followers, Aiken said that Reid has “lost all credibility.” She's no longer effective when she had lost ALL credibility. Sorry. It hurts to say it, because I was a loyal viewer and agree with her so often. But her credibility is totally shot. — Clay Aiken (@clayaiken) May 31, 2018 BuzzFeed uncovered the post depicting McCain as a mass murderer: The October 2007 post, titled “Baghdad John Strikes Again,” discusses then-GOP Presidential nominee John McCain’s infamous claim that he would “follow Osama bin Laden to the gates of hell.” The image appears at the end of the post, which was apparently penned by Reid. The McCain post is the latest in a series of archived items from Reid’s blog that have embarrassed the AM Joy host and her network. Though Reid apologized for several homophobic posts last December, she later attributed others to a hacker. Reid subsequently admitted that she could not substantiate this claim after news reports knocked down the evidence her private cybersecurity expert provided. Reid and MSNBC have both pointed to an ongoing FBI investigation into the alleged breach. This development comes one day after Buzzfeed reported the embattled MSNBC host published 9/11 conspiracy theories on her now-defunct blog. In March 2006, Reid published a blog post which promoted a video titled Loose Change 9/11, an 80-minute film produced by Infowars founder Alex Jones, that alleges the U.S. government was behind the Islamic terror attack on the twin towers of the World Trade Center. In December, the MSNBC host apologized for publishing homophobic remarks about former Flordia Gov. Charlie Crist, in which she called the Republican-turned-Democrat “Miss Charlie.” In another post, Joy wrote “Stop pretending, brother,” later adding, “It’s okay that you don’t go for the ladies.” 1/x From 2007 to 2009 @joyannreid authored a dozen homophobic posts not only attempting to out Charlie Crist as gay, she attacked & mocked him for being so. She repeatedly referred to him as "Miss Charlie" and tagged posts about him under "gay politicians." (thread) pic.twitter.com/tRYvJ3lTc8 — Not a bot (@Jamie_Maz) November 30, 2017 2/x Joy constantly refers to Crist mockingly as "Miss Charlie" and insinuates that his marriage is a fraud to cover up his being gay. pic.twitter.com/2E7i8rCq8C — Not a bot (@Jamie_Maz) November 30, 2017 3/x She makes a joke about John McCain "tapping" Crist, says Crist spent his honeymoon ogling male waiters and thinking about how he didn't want to see his wife naked, and mocked Crist's big gay wedding. pic.twitter.com/KmWxJymc3J — Not a bot (@Jamie_Maz) November 30, 2017 “This note is my apology to all who are disappointed by the content of blogs I wrote a decade ago, for which my choice of words and tone have legitimately been criticized. As a writer, I pride myself on a facility with language—an economy of words or at least some wisdom in the selection,” Reid said in a statement published by The Wrap. “However, that clearly has not always been the case,” she added. In late April, a progressive Twitter user found more anti-gay posts from the Reid Report, but Reid claimed that they were maliciously added by a hacker; her lawyer said the FBI was investigating the claim. Investigations from both right and left-wing news outlets decisively disproved the “hacking” claims. Reid went on air and apologized for them, though she continued to claim “I genuinely do not believe I wrote those hateful things.” MSNBC has kept Reid on its staff and has not further addressed the controversy.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. I knew that President Trump was popular in Israel. I just didn’t know how popular. Talk about enthusiastic support! I asked one man if we could talk with him on camera about religious subjects. He was quite happy to do so. But since we were Americans, he first wanted to talk about Trump. “Make America great!” he shouted with a big smile. “Make Israel great!” To be sure, Trump has his detractors in Israel. Opinions here are anything but monolithic, and divisions are fierce and intense. One of my friends is the Israeli equivalent of an Evangelical Christian, Never Trumper. When it comes to politics, he is very liberal and normally sides with the Palestinians. Obviously, he is not a fan of Donald Trump. Some cab drivers we spoke with, including Israeli Muslims, expressed indifference towards Trump. One was downright hostile (he happened to be a secular Israeli Jew). He said Trump was good for nothing and that he had the support of only two people, a Texas farmer and Putin. We asked him, “How then, did he get elected?” He replied, “Christians didn’t vote for him. Jews didn’t vote for him. Blacks didn’t vote for him. Mexicans didn’t vote for him.” We asked again, “Then who voted for him? How did he get elected?” He replied, “A farmer in Texas and Putin,” with the strong emphasis on Putin. The Russian conspiracy lives on. This driver even told us, “No one wants Trump. Not even his wife Melania. I saw it on Fox News. He tried to hold her hand and she pulled it away.” But he was in the clear minority among those we spoke with, and over and over, we heard the same two things. It was not just that his slogan, “Make America great again,” had reached Israel. A slogan alone is just that: words. Why be so excited about words? But that’s what separated Trump from other politicians in the minds of many Israelis. He was not just a man of words. Instead, as they said repeatedly – and with enthusiasm – Trump gets things done. Their support for Trump, then, can be boiled down to these two things. First, when he says something, he does it. He keeps his word. Second, in doing so, he is not like other politicians. That’s why they loved Trump. It was clear that their opinion of him was based on sound bites and caricatures. He was almost an exaggeration of himself, if such a thing were possible. But that’s what travels around the world. Not subtle differences in policies. Not partisan squabbling. Not journalistic opinions. Instead, it is the bold strokes of what a political leader says and does that carry. Who is Putin to you? What about Kim Jong Il? What about Netanyahu? What about Macron? We know them from a distance, and we know them in simplified (or, exaggerated) form. Here in Israel (from whence I write), political scandals are a dime a dozen. Vicious political divisions are the norm. Like Trump, Prime Minister Netanyahu has been married three times. He even confessed to adultery in the past. And, like Trump, he presents the figure of a strong, no nonsense leader. In a nation like Israel, surrounded by sworn, mortal enemies, strength and decisiveness are highly valued. And that’s how Trump is perceived. A Russian-born Israeli said to us with enthusiasm, “He says it and he does it! He’s not a politician. He keeps his word.” Seeing that this man stood guard in front of the American Embassy in Jerusalem, it was easy to understand his enthusiasm. Trump did what Clinton, Bush, and Obama did not do. He literally made international history by keeping the same political promise many others had made. This Russian-Israeli said to us, “Even before he was a politician, I liked him. But my friends said he was dumb.” “Yes,” I replied, “dumb enough to get elected President of the United States.” And now dumb enough to have his name engraved on the wall of our historic embassy. Even dumb enough to have his face on a newly-minted “Temple Coin,” along with the face of the ancient Persian king, Cyrus. “Make America great again! Trump, Trump!” Talk about marketing skills. The Trump brand is thriving here in Israel.
LAS VEGAS — In a single nine-minute stretch of the third period, the Capitals dramatically took the lead before the Vegas Golden Knights replied with two goals of their own. Washington’s Tom Wilson also flattened Vegas forward Jonathan Marchessault with a blindside hit that could reverberate through the Stanley Cup final. After 10 goals and a final-record four lead changes overall in a fantastically entertaining opener, it’s tough to imagine what these unlikely opponents will do for an encore. But the upstart Golden Knights have spent their entire inaugural season speeding past all expectations, and their first final game didn’t slow them down in the slightest. Tomas Nosek scored the tiebreaking goal midway through the third period, and the expansion Golden Knights surged past the Capitals for a 6-4 victory on Monday night. “We put fun ahead of everything, and you can tell,” said Ryan Reaves, who scored the Knights’ tying goal in the third period. “Guys have are having fun and they’re smiling.” The Eastern Conference champion Capitals hadn’t given up this many goals in 29 games since March 18, but they hadn’t seen anything like this charmed run by the upstart Knights. With its sellout crowd of hometown fans at deafening volume all night, Vegas put its usual speed and relentlessness on full display while overcoming that third-period deficit to win the opener of a matchup between two franchises seeking their first Stanley Cup titles. Marc-Andre Fleury made 24 saves in an occasionally shaky performance, but the three-time Stanley Cup winner’s new teammates carried the goalie who has so often carried them with a relentless outburst of offense. “We’re a good defensive group, but we weren’t tonight,” Marchessault said. “They’re a team that’s very fast in the neutral zone, and we gave them too much respect with the puck. We need to be faster in the defensive zone. We’re going to fix that in our game.” The Game 1 winner has won the last six Cups and 61 of 78 overall. Braden Holtby stopped 28 shots for the Capitals, whose first Stanley Cup Final game in 20 years was a defensive nightmare. Washington still played a strong offensive game and had chances to win, but never slowed the Knights. “I think next game is going to be different, and all the nervousness, all the bad thing goes away in this game,” said captain Alex Ovechkin, who had an assist. “We just have to forget about it and bounce back [in the] next one.” Wilson got credit for the goal that put the Caps up 4-3 early in the third period when Fleury back-heeled a loose puck into his own net, but Reaves evened it 91 seconds later for Vegas. Nosek then put the Knights ahead after Shea Theodore kept the puck in Washington’s zone, sidestepped a defender and fired a beautiful cross-ice pass to the Czech forward, who buried a one-timer for his second goal of the playoffs. Colin Miller, William Karlsson and Reilly Smith scored early goals before Nosek added an empty-netter for the Knights, who are three wins away from one of the most improbable championships in recent North American team sports history. Just 342 days after the Knights selected the backbone of their first roster in the expansion draft, Vegas had another party on the Strip with its remarkable collection of castoffs. Brett Connolly, Nicklas Backstrom and John Carlson also scored for Washington, but its biggest stars didn’t match the Knights’ outburst. Along with Ovechkin’s quiet night, Evgeny Kuznetsov — who scored a whopping 24 points in the first three rounds — also had just one assist. The Golden Knights’ playoff pregame shows have been a celebration of Vegas showmanship, and their first Final game started with an extravaganza that included archers, a trebuchet and a spectacular light show. And then the Knights and Caps put on a high-energy production of their own with plenty of fireworks and drama. With none of the customary caution or high-pressure effects often shown by teams and players in their first game on the NHL’s biggest stage, Vegas and Washington jumped right into an up-tempo thriller. Vegas had outscored its opponents 10-0 in the first period at home during the playoffs, but the Caps got two goals. After Miller scored the Knights’ first goal on a power play and ended Holtby’s scoreless streak at nearly 167 minutes, Washington calmly surged ahead later in the first period with goals 42 seconds apart. The wild scoring continued in the third with an own-goal by Fleury, who lost track of a rebound and kicked it backward into his net. T-Mobile Arena was only quiet for a few seconds before the tying goal from Reaves, who cross-checked Carlson to the ice an instant before the puck unexpectedly bounced to him for an uncontested shot. Reaves didn’t score at all in his first 26 games after joining the Knights in a trade, but the rough-and-tumble forward broke through with the winning goal in the Western Conference finals clincher against Winnipeg. Wilson delivered his crushing open-ice hit moments later to Marchessault, who was shaken up on the play. The Golden Knights uniformly criticized it as a late hit, while the rambunctious Wilson defended himself. “I haven’t obviously slowed it down and looked at it, but I think he’d probably say he shouldn’t have admired his pass, and I’m just finishing my check,” Wilson said. “I think the league is going to take care of it,” Marchessault said. “I never see him coming. Puck is away for a couple seconds for sure. But whatever. He’s a guy who plays hard, throws big hits out there.”
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. WASHINGTON -- President Trump has found a rarely used legislative tool, one that hasn't been employed in nearly 20 years, to cut $15.4 billion in wasteful, needless federal spending. It is Title X of the 1974 Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act that gives Trump the power to propose rescinding unnecessary spending enacted by Congress. Administration officials say it is only the beginning of many more White House budget-cutting requests to come. With the national debt soaring to more than $21 trillion, and the federal budget deficit threatening to approach $1 trillion next year, the president sent the $15 billion-plus rescission package to Capitol Hill earlier this month. White House officials said Trump's action represents the "largest rescission package ever proposed by a president" asking Congress to pull back funding from previous, unused budget appropriations. The rescissions included $148 million in Agriculture Department funds for "animal and plant disease outbreaks that have already been resolved," according to The Wall Street Journal. "It would save $252 million at the U.S. Agency for International Development that was appropriated in fiscal 2015 for the Ebola response, which has largely concluded," the newspaper reported. Another rescission "would save $47 million at the Federal Transit Administration from an account that has stagnated for 13 years. Yet another would reclaim taxpayer dollars from a Railroad Retirement Board program that ended in 2012." The largest savings is $7 billion in the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which the administration supports, "in funds that are either no longer necessary or can't be spent because the authority to do so expired last year," the Journal said. The rescission in the CHIP program, which provides medical care to kids in low-income families, "will have 'no programmatic impact,'" according to an official. In terms of the enormity of the federal budget, these and other savings amount to only a tiny blip in the budget war. But the Trump administration is on to something very big and potentially game-changing here. The 1974 Impoundment Control Act gives the president sweeping, unlimited power to propose rescinding spending by the Congress. "Because such 'rescissions' require Congress to pass new legislation, the law allows the president to freeze these funds for 45 days," writes the Journal's budget analyst, Russ Vought. Moreover, rescissions "can be approved with simple majorities in both houses, meaning the Senate can't block them with a filibuster." Trump has urged the Office of Management and Budget to search deeper into the bowels of the government for other wasteful, ineffective, outmoded spending programs that are ripe for the rescission axe. White House budget director Mick Mulvaney is telling Republicans on Capitol Hill that his rescission list could have been as large as $25 billion, and that he's planning several more packages of spending cuts. The Democrats, of course, are furious over Trump's latest budget-cutting maneuver. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer have been screaming bloody murder. But Republicans in both chambers, especially tea party conservatives, have rallied behind Trump's budget deficit offensive. House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy of California, hoping to succeed House Speaker Paul Ryan, compares the rescissions to "giving the bloated federal budget a much-needed spring cleaning." Conservative political activists around the country are also rallying behind Trump's counterpunches against the Republican big spenders. "Big government GOP appropriators and moderates are holding up the president's rescissions plan because they are addicted to spending," said David McIntosh, president of the Club for Growth. "Republican leadership needs to bring the proposal (HR 3) to the floor immediately and force the appropriators and moderates to make a decision. Are they with Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats? Or are they with President Trump and the American people who want smaller government? It's their choice," McIntosh said. "It's long past time for the GOP to get its fiscal house in order, and President Trump's rescission plan provides the perfect mechanism to do exactly that. The time to act is now." Poll after poll shows that the American people are very concerned that our country is being buried beneath a huge and mounting debt, endangering our economy, the future of our children and grandchildren, and the foundations on which our nation rests.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Roseanne Barr, on Twitter, compared Obama advisor Valerie Jarrett to an ape. Given the long history of racists in this country comparing black people to apes, claiming Roseanne's remark was not racist is something the fringe might debate, but decent people agree on. The remark was racist and she was fired. No television network has ever cancelled the number one network television show in America over a star's behavior until this happened. Roseanne Barr has a history of making awful comments. She said people who eat at Chick-Fil-A should get cancer. She believed 9/11 conspiracy theories. She ran for President as a far left candidate for office. By the end of last week, the very same people who had been defending the honor of the MS-13 gang were attacking the honor of all Trump voters everywhere as if they were just as bad as Roseanne. Only a few days later on TBS, a woman named Samantha Bee, who some people seem to think is funny, called Ivanka Trump a "feckless c***" for having the audacity of putting a picture of herself with her toddler on social media. Many of the people who rushed to demand ABC fire Roseanne Barr suddenly rushed in the opposite direction to defend Samantha Bee. Certainly one involved race and the other only involved gender, but only a few years ago TBS sister company CNN went wall to wall with coverage of a congressional staffer no one had heard of who had criticized the Obama girls on her private Facebook page. CNN did not stop covering the story until the congressional staffer was fired. The media's standards are increasingly, obviously, in favor of progressives behaving badly while censuring others. It is worth noting that Roseanne Barr's racist rambling was a tweet. Samantha Bee's was a scripted monologue prepared by a team of writers and aired on television before a live audience. One was random and the other pre-meditated, but the pre-meditated one gets a pass. Many of the people arguing "false equivalence" in comparing Roseanne's antics to Samantha Bee's would be up in arms if Bee had targeted someone not named Trump. If the President or his supporters start referring to Hillary Clinton, Nancy Pelosi, Chelsea Clinton, Elizabeth Warren or any other prominent Democrat by the same phrase Samantha Bee used, there would be blood-curdling screams of sexism and outrage for days. Samantha Bee gets a pass and Roseanne does not because Bee is on the right team. In the same way, MSNBC's Joy Reid wrote a series of posts on her personal website about gay rights and gay marriage that enraged gay activists. But Reid claimed a hacker had hacked her blog. The left rallied to Joy Reid because she is on their side now. Instead of being honest that her views had evolved, they were willing to go with the "my computer got hacked" excuse. As ABC was firing Roseanne Barr, they were rehiring Keith Olbermann. He is notorious for saying outrageously offensive and demeaning things as well as treating people terribly. Saturday Night Live gives Alec Baldwin airtime. Baldwin once got caught calling his then eleven year old a "rude thoughtless pig" and that was one of the mildest things he has ever been caught saying. But Baldwin hates all the right people. Monique Judge of the website The Root referred to Dr. Ben Carson as a "monkey of the porch variety." Various leftwing commentators frequently referred to Condoleezza Rica and Colin Powell as Uncle Toms or, in the case of Rice, "Aunt Jemima." The media, though, was far more concerned about an unknown congressional staffer criticizing President Obama's daughter on her private Facebook page. I abhor the idea of firing people for things they say. While I think people should be decent and not call people "feckless c***" or compare people to apes, I think businesses also have the right to set standards of behavior for their employees. But I also think it is very obvious that the media and news networks in America give far more latitude to offensive progressives than to any other group. There is a double standard.
The marketing for Melissa McCarthy’s new film — featuring Muppet-like characters doing very naughty things — can move forward despite complaints from the folks behind “Sesame Street” that it “tarnishes” their kid show’s brand the way a classic ‘70s porno flick tainted the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders. see also 'Sesame Street' creators sue over Melissa McCarthy flick Sesame Workshop filed the suit in Manhattan federal court claiming... Manhattan federal Judge Vernon Broderick rejected a request by the Sesame Workshop for a temporary retraining order to halt ads for the upcoming comedy “Happytime Murders,” including a YouTube trailer with the tagline, “No Sesame. All Street.” In its lawsuit filed last week, Sesame Workshop objected to the film’s trailer, featuring “drug-using, misogynistic, violent, copulating, and even ejaculating puppets,” saying it caused “devastating and irreparable injury” to the Sesame Street name. “They are distributing a trailer that deliberately confuses consumers into mistakenly believing that Sesame is associated with, has allowed, or has even endorsed or produced the movie and tarnishes Sesame’s brand,” the lawsuit claimed. But Broderick ruled that the STX film — directed by Brian Henson, the son of the late Jim Henson, whose Muppets have been central characters in the children’s mainstay since its inception in 1969 — was geared toward an entirely different audience than “Sesame Street.” He also found that the trailer’s “No Sesame. All Street” tagline was intended to “differentiate” the raunchy adult film from the wholesome educational show featuring Big Bird and Oscar the Grouch. “I find the use of the tagline to disclaim — albeit in a short and pithy manner,” the judge said. At one point, a lawyer for Sesame Workshop tried to compare the damage she said the McCarthy trailer has done to “Sesame Street’s” brand to the damage the porn movie “Debbie Does Dallas” inflicted on the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders, who successfully beat the film from being shown at an adult movie theater in the 1970s. The judge wasn’t buying it. “’Debbie Does Dallas’ was a pornographic movie,” the judge said. “Isn’t there a difference here?” The judge also downplayed Sesame Workshop’s evidence that the trailer was confusing viewers, saying they provided just a “handful” of examples of people who wrongly associated the trailer with “Sesame Street” — a drop in the bucket compared to the “millions of views of the trailer.” As of this writing, the “Happytime Murders” trailer had chalked up 2.2 million views on YouTube.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
A ship cannot have two captains. That appears to be a lesson the Democratic National Committee is learning under the leadership of Tom Perez and Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN). After the 2016 election, the DNC was a total disaster. It still is a mess. The fundraising numbers are total trash. They’re millions in debt. And the level of distrust that exists between the Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton wings of the party is high. Perez told Politico that he knew this job would be a long haul; he never thought it would be this bad, however. Perez is the establishment. Ellison is part of the ascendant progressive wing. And besides the Sanders campaign is unwilling to hand over their data and email lists over to the DNC—you can’t blame them—the pair don’t see eye-to-eye: “I knew it was a turnaround job when I ran, but I undeniably underestimated the depth of the turnaround job. We had to rebuild almost every facet of the organization, and equally importantly, we had to rebuild trust,” Perez said in a recent interview at party headquarters. “Not just people who had invested in the DNC, but others — they just felt the party had let them down.” It’s hard to overstate the scale of his task. The DNC has become every frustrated Democrat’s favorite piñata, and a symbol of everything that went wrong in 2016. Sanders-Clinton hostilities have taken on a new form: The tension now is over whether Sanders should hand over his massive voter list to the committee, as Perez has asked, and whether the committee has gone far enough to overhaul internal rules that Sanders forces are convinced rigged the nomination for Clinton. Neither side is satisfied, and words like “crazy,” “still doesn’t get it” and, in one case, “Judas” are tossed around to describe people in the opposite camp. The relationship between Perez and Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), the former rival whom Perez named deputy chair in an attempt to ease tribal infighting, remains chilly, with periodic explosive fights over party strategy and appointments. “Functioning unity is something we’ve got to build back over time,” Ellison said, after praising Perez. This split do could not be better illustrated than over the DNC’s endorsement of New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. For months, the pair had given off the impression that the DNC would stay out of meddling in party primaries, though Ellison gave Cynthia Nixon, who is trying to boot Cuomo in the primary, a rosy reception at the Progressive Change Campaign Committee in D.C. last April. Now, the Left is frothing with rage, but it gets worse. The DNC is saying their endorsement was a personal one for Perez, and does not reflect the DNC proper. We were discussing rebuilding trust between the DNC and the base, right? (via HuffPo): Several members of the Democratic National Committee slammed Chairman Tom Perez’s Thursday endorsement of New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, a two-term incumbent fending off a major left-wing primary challenge. The members, who said Perez had neglected to inform them of the decision, argued that it would undermine efforts to earn the trust of progressives, young voters and independents already suspicious of the DNC for its role in the 2016 presidential primary. “I was like, ‘Is he crazy?’ What does he think the response is going to be from progressives who already had doubts about the DNC?” said Yasmine Taeb, a Virginia Democratic National Committeewoman. A senior Democratic official and DNC member, who declined to be named for professional reasons, called it an “unforced error.” “Every misstep like this results in us having to spend a lot of time cleaning up the mess and repairing bridges and rebuilding trust,” the official said. Perez’s endorsement of Cuomo was “personal” and not a reflection of the DNC’s preference, according to Xochitl Hinojosa, his chief spokeswoman at the DNC. As someone who spent 1yr+ of my life traveling the country for DNC Unity Reform Commission...If we want to unite the party and win elections again, we must take the DNC’s rules seriously. The DNC is not allowed to intervene in primaries - otherwise why would we have primaries? https://t.co/jXgX3j1UBe — Nomiki Konst ?????? (@NomikiKonst) May 24, 2018 After the 2016 debacle, it isn’t just stupid to see a DNC Chair weighing in on a primary, it’s a wholly unnecessary, destructive move that injures something @TheDemocrats still desperately need: The trust of the party’s grassroots base. Sad. https://t.co/DHozdj6dRm — DemocracyForAmerica (@DFAaction) May 25, 2018 Tom, all I can ask is “Why?” Earlier you said the party shouldn’t get involved in primaries. & Keith said the “Party shouldn’t intervene in the primary process” it should “be fair to all...& let the voters decide.” So why alienate progressives, why? https://t.co/tt2HGbJp46 — James J. Zogby (@jjz1600) May 25, 2018 I agree with my friend @keithellison: the DNC chair should not be involved in primaries like this. We have a party to build and a congress to win.https://t.co/lcp6XvfAVW — Earl Blumenauer (@repblumenauer) May 24, 2018 Now, there are petitions calling on Perez to resign, while other Democrats are just perplexed over this move. So, will Ellison resign? It remains unclear, but what does he gain by staying there? The DNC has gone through two overhauls, they’ve fired their top fundraiser, and they still can’t get the books balanced or a message uniformly disseminated. It’s a mess—exacerbated by the ongoing civil war within the Democratic Party. Say what you will about the GOP’s troubles, their fight is over. Trump won when he signed the tax reform package into law last December. For the Democrats, the Sanders-Clinton feud is still raw.
Roseanne Barr was dropped from her talent agency, ICM Partners, following a series of racist, anti-Semitic tweets she posted on Tuesday. “We are all greatly distressed by the disgraceful and unacceptable tweet from Roseanne Barr this morning,” the agency’s leadership said in an internal memo, Deadline reported. “What she wrote is antithetical to our core values, both as individuals and as an agency. Consequently, we have notified her that we will not represent her. Effective immediately, Roseanne Barr is no longer a client.” Barr, 65, compared former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett to an ape on Twitter Tuesday, which sparked outrage and led many to plead with ABC to act. The network announced the series — which was ABC’s highest-rated and most-watched series — was canceled hours later. “Roseanne’s Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values and we have decided to cancel her show,” ABC Entertainment president Channing Dungey said in a statement. “Roseanne” originally aired from 1988 to 1997 but was brought back in March to rave reviews and ratings. Barr reprised her role as brash matriarch Roseanne Conner, an unabashed Trump supporter who’s at political odds with the rest of her family. Its hour-long debut picked up a record 18.1 million viewers.
An injured hiker survived for 72 hours in Joshua Tree National Park after drinking her own urine. Claire Nelson was found stranded in southern California three days after she fell and broke her pelvis. She later tweeted: “Nobody could hear me scream. I would have died by the weekend. I cannot believe I am alive. “Now I’m in hospital; my pelvis is in pieces and it’s the most agonizing pain I’ve ever felt. “They’re going to operate and piece me back together with pins. I’m so grateful to be alive.” The New Zealander had been traveling across Canada but detoured to Joshua Tree for an adventure. At the beginning of last week, she climbed over boulders but slipped down a 22-foot drop, shattering her pelvis. Stricken Claire, 36, then had to endure the hot desert, where the heat topped 104 degrees. When her water ran out, she started drinking her own urine, which she said tastes like “bad, flat beer.” The woman used her sunscreen bottle cap to collect her urine and drink it. For three days, she was unable to move and used her clothing as a shelter from the sun. She planned to meet a friend on Thursday and hoped that, by not showing up, a search would be sparked. Her friend launched the alarm and a search started on Friday morning. Claire put a T-shirt and her hat on her hiking stick, waiving it to attract attention. The crew, on a helicopter, spotted Claire’s signal around 4 p.m. on Friday local time. They managed to rescue her and fly her to the hospital, where she now faces a long recovery. Her mom, Maggie Hickton, became concerned when Claire stopped updating her Instagram. “She’s actually in good spirits but she’s still in shock,” Maggie told the Herald on Sunday. “It was three nights in the desert with a broken pelvis. She’s gone through all those thoughts about thinking she’s going to die. “When no one came searching on Thursday she really felt she was going to die. She couldn’t move and the sun was fierce. “At night she was petrified of the rattlesnakes and other things.”
“NCIS” star Mark Harmon is recognized by fans for being notoriously private. And he wouldn’t have it any other way. The 66-year-old, who is the star of TV’s top drama, told Closer Weekly Wednesday he and his family prefer to keep a low profile away from Hollywood’s glaring spotlight. “It’s not even a choice. It’s who we are,” he explained. “We stay home. A lot. I’m not a Twitter guy or a Facebook guy. Our sons aren’t into that, either.” And despite his fame, Harmon has successfully managed to maintain a low profile away from cameras for the sake of his family. He raised his two sons, 30-year-old Sean and 25-year-old Ty, with his wife, actress Pam Dawber. The couple also recently renewed their vows in a quiet backyard ceremony. But Harmon has had plenty of experience navigating fame over the years. He is the son of sportscaster Tom Harmon and ‘40s screen star Elyse Knox. “My parents kept things real — I had no idea they were famous,” he said. “In fact, it didn’t hit me until one day when I was riding in the car with my father in Ann Arbor, Mich. – I was maybe 8 and could barely see above the dashboard – and we stopped at a crosswalk. "Suddenly, we were surrounded by people who recognized my dad and were really thrilled to see him. I remember looking at this man I thought I knew so well and thinking, ‘Who are you?’” Harmon himself didn’t immediately dive into a high-profile career. He became a football star at UCLA and later worked as a roofer, carpenter and shoe salesman before he was urged by his sister’s father-in-law Ozzie Nelson of “Ozzie & Harriet” fame to pursue acting. “I’d never been on a set before,” said Harmon, who made his debut in 1973 on the family sitcom “Ozzie’s Girls.” “My character comes to the door in a gorilla outfit, and I got to say, ‘My name’s Harry King Kong. Which way to the Empire State Building?” But Harmon was also looking for something else, in addition to a new career: true love. “When I marry, I want it to be everything this town says it can’t be,” he announced in 1986. “I’m not into catting around.” He met his match, Dawber, at a party thrown by a mutual friend. They married in 1987. Dawber enjoyed her own success on the small screen with sitcoms “Mork & Mindy” and “My Sister Sam,” but she chose to put her career on hold to raise the couple’s children. “I had children and it was like, ‘I’m not going to chase this fame thing,’” she explained. “I wanted to drive my kids to school. I wanted to be there for their birthdays and bring cupcakes and doughnuts. And I was very happy to do it.” But life for Harmon wasn’t always smooth sailing. His sister Kristin had gotten involved with drugs during her marriage to teen heartthrob Ricky Nelson, who later died in a 1985 plane crash. As Kristin’s addiction worsened, Harmon attempted to gain custody of her 12-year-old son, Sam, in hopes his nephew could enjoy a more stable environment. The magazine added Harmon ultimately dropped his bid for custody and Kristin entered rehab. He was instead granted visitation rights. Sam remained close to his mother until she died in April at age 72 from a heart attack. Harmon has maintained a steady career as a sought-after actor, but being by his family’s side has always been his primary goal. He learned a major life lesson about that while filming 1991’s “Till There Was You.” “I was in the jungles of New Guinea making a not very good movie when my firstborn took his first steps,” he recalled. “No job is worth missing life’s most important moments.” Harmon may enjoy his private life when not filming “NCIS,” but he’s still grateful that audiences enjoy his latest role as an actor. “It’s hard to walk through airports even in the most out-of-the-way places without being surrounded by people who love the show —and that’s nothing to complain about,” he said. “I’ve done TV shows where I walk through airports apologizing.”
The Gazette Op-Ed: Point/Counterpoint: Is Colorado a purple state or a blue state? Colorado’s discerning and independent voters will again make the 2018 election a competitive drama that goes down to the wire. There is a myth that Colorado was a Republican bastion for decades before Democrats finally broke through the red wall and the state is now inevitably headed blue. But the reality is that Colorado has been a purple state for the past 45 years, remains so today, and always will be. … Consider this: Massachusetts was a reliably Republican state in presidential elections for 68 years, from 1856 to 1924, then 89 years ago turned Democratic for almost every election since 1928 – except going twice for Eisenhower and twice for Reagan. And California has voted consistently Democratic since 1992, about 25 years ago, going Republican in 9 of the 10 presidential elections before then. Compare this with Colorado, which voted Republican in 17 of the 22 presidential elections from 1920 to 2004, then switched to voting consistently Democratic in the last 3 elections (2008, 2012, and 2016). Denver Post: The Trump administration has yet to fill some crucial federal posts for Colorado, the region Eight months into the Trump administration, a slate of top federal jobs in Colorado and the West remains unfilled — a hiring delay that touches everything from the environment to criminal justice and one which local leaders and activists said hampers their ability to work with the White House. Full-time administrators have yet to be installed in the Colorado regional offices of the Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Housing and Urban Development and Department of Health and Human Services, among others. The state also has an acting U.S. attorney and a vacant seat on the federal bench. A jurist nominated in June to replace U.S. Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch on the 10th U.S. District Court of Appeals only recently was given the green light to appear before a U.S. Senate panel for vetting. The slow pace hasn’t gone unnoticed by either Democrats or Republicans, though the two sides often disagree on its primary cause — the White House or Congress. ABC 7: Colorado plans to upgrade vehicles with Volkswagen payment Colorado has come up with a plan to spend the $68.7 million it was awarded in the Volkswagen emissions settlement. The Denver Post reported Monday that the state’s plan calls for replacing 450 public and private vehicles with new alternative-fuel vehicles. The state also wants to replace diesel-reliant transit buses, with expectations of funding 36 electric buses plus charging stations. The funding, part of the $2.9 billion Volkswagen set aside for violating the federal Clean Air Act, stems from several fines levied against the German automaker after it was found to be cheating emissions tests so its cars would test much cleaner than they actually drove.
For days the media has been musing about First Lady Melania Trump's whereabouts. The internet has fueled rumors about her public absence since her hospitalization. Time Magazine has a summary of some of the more widely discussed theories. The first lady’s absence from public view has spawned all sorts of wild theories on social media and elsewhere: Has she moved back to Trump Tower in New York City? Is she cooperating with the special counsel’s Russia investigation? Is her health in jeopardy? Has she entered the witness protection program? And so on. (Time) Melania put the conspiracies to rest Wednesday. I see the media is working overtime speculating where I am & what I'm doing. Rest assured, I'm here at the @WhiteHouse w my family, feeling great, & working hard on behalf of children & the American people! — Melania Trump (@FLOTUS) May 30, 2018 Mrs. Trump's communications director Stephanie Grisham added that although her boss has not made a public appearance in a few weeks, she has been involved in White House agenda prep. “She's doing really well,” Grisham told ABC News. “She's been involved in several internal meetings with staff all last week, and that continues this week. We've been going over initiatives and other long-term planning for events such as the congressional picnic and 4th of July.” Mrs. Trump was hospitalized at Walter Reed Medical Center a couple of weeks ago to have surgery for a "benign kidney condition." She returned to the White House on May 19, but had not been seen in public since May 10, when she and President Trump welcomed home three Americans who had been held as prisoners in North Korea. "Sadly, we deal with conspiracy theories all the time, so this is nothing new, just more silly nonsense," Grisham told Politico on Tuesday. "She is doing great. I wouldn't characterize it as a long absence. She was hospitalized for almost a week and is now home and recovering." Just as soon as the media got its answer, however, they had another question: Who wrote Melania's tweet? The phrase "working overtime,” which has been featured in several of President Trump's tweets, had some outlets wondering whether 45 penned the message.
Smart toilet paper could be used in the future to help fight obesity, say British scientists. The claim comes after researchers made a breakthrough in understanding the biological processes that lead to pot bellies. The findings published in Nature Genetics show the epidemic is vastly down to what we eat — rather than our genes. And it identifies the series of actions in the gut that fuel the build-up of fat around the waist. First author Dr Jonas Zierer, of King’s College London, said: “This new knowledge means we can alter the gut environment and confront the challenge of obesity from a new angle that is related to modifiable factors such as diet and the microbes in the gut.” “This is exciting because unlike our genes and our innate risk to develop fat around the belly, the gut microbes can be modified with probiotics, with drugs or with high fiber diets.” Tim Spector, head of King’s College London’s Twin Research Group, said: “This exciting work… shows the importance to our health and weight of the thousands of chemicals that gut microbes produce in response to food.” “Knowing that they are largely controlled by what we eat rather than our genes is great news and opens up many ways to use food as medicine. In the future, these chemicals could even be used in smart toilets or as smart toilet paper.” In the largest study of its kind, they analyzed the community of chemicals in the stools of 500 pairs of twins. Known as the “fecal metabolome,” it enabled them to build a picture of how the gut drives these processes and distributes fat. Under the microscope the stool samples revealed signs, or biomarkers, of internal fat around the waist. This showed how microbial chemicals lead to the development of fat around the waist in some, but not all the twins.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. As the acclaimed poet Maya Angelou once said, "When someone shows you who they are, believe them -- the first time." That wise adage hasn't made its way to television executives, apparently, who can't help hiring -- and rehiring -- some of the industry's worst known repeat offenders. ABC, which rebooted the one-time hit comedy "Roseanne" this year as a paean to Trump's America, just canceled the ratings juggernaut after a wave of racist tweets by controversial comic Roseanne Barr went viral. In the tweets, Barr suggested Chelsea Clinton was related to the liberal billionaire activist George Soros -- she isn't -- and then called Soros a "nazi." Worse, she said of former Obama administration adviser Valerie Jarrett: "Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj." That Barr has gone ahead on Twitter and revealed herself to be an unhinged, mouth-breathing, racist conspiracy monger isn't the strange part -- it's that she's revealed herself again. ABC falsely believed they hired Roseanne the Character -- a blue collar, everywoman who was sharp-tongued but fun-loving and, yes, a Trump supporter. But what they got was Roseanne the Person, who is, to put it politely, a nutjob. Upon her firing, ABC released this condemnation: "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show." But what's their excuse for hiring her again? Remember, this is a woman who was an early supporter of birtherism, has compared Muslims to Nazis, took to Twitter regularly to attack citizens both private and public, floated wild conspiracy theories and bullied Trump opponents with racist, homophobic and anti-Semitic insults. She infamously dressed up as Hitler for a photoshoot and posed with burnt "Jew cookies," and has promoted anti-Semitic personalities like the Holocaust-denier Gilad Atzmon. As risks go, she came with a ton of it. How did ABC think this would go? Suddenly becoming a network star again would put the crazy back in the bottle? Sorry -- that's not how it works. Need more proof? When Rosie O'Donnell returned to "The View" in 2015, she promised "a calmer version" of herself, according to Variety, after previously bouncing from the program in 2007 and leaving before her contract was through, a single season in. But it was only a matter of time before O'Donnell's famous temper, ego and unwillingness to work well with others resulted in her second departure, just five months in. Hiring a 9/11 truther whose Twitter timeline might as well be written in feces on the wall of a padded cell probably didn't make much sense the second time either. Then there's everybody's favorite misogynist, Keith Olbermann, the putrid living embodiment of Bobby Riggs and Ernest Hemingway. He was just rehired by ESPN for "SportsCenter," the sixth time the network has hired him. The very brief overview of his career highlights include: Calling Education Secretary Betsy DeVos a "Motherf--ker," slurring Ann Coulter as a "guy (who) wants to live his life as a woman," calling conservative commentator Michelle Malkin a "big mashed-up bag of meat with lipstick on it," and yours truly as "the perfect demonstration of the necessity of the work Planned Parenthood does." OK, so maybe he only hates a certain kind of woman. He's been suspended and/or fired by nearly every outlet he's worked for, including ESPN, MSNBC, and CurrentTV, which said at the time, "Current was ... founded on the values of respect, openness, collegiality, and loyalty to our viewers. Unfortunately these values are no longer reflected in our relationship with Keith Olbermann and we have ended it." The new(ish) face of ESPN, ladies and gentlemen. Why bad people -- who are bad to other people -- keep getting hired after they have proven their selves time and again is a mystery to me. But they'll be fine. The worst part of this is the vast numbers of talented people left in their wake. Castmates like John Goodman and Sara Gilbert took a chance on Roseanne and "Roseanne," and are now left holding the bag. Likely dozens of crewmembers, writers and producers are also without a job suddenly. Same for every failed Olbermann venture and O'Donnell flop. With a world teeming with fresh new talent, it seems wholly unnecessary to keep going back to the same, polluted wells that reliably end up stinking up the joint.
Conservative author and filmmaker Dinesh D’Souza is expected to receive a full presidential pardon following a 2014 conviction for violating federal campaign finance laws. In a tweet on Thursday, President Donald Trump announced the latest in a series of controversial pardons that began earlier in his first term than many of his predecessors. Will be giving a Full Pardon to Dinesh D’Souza today. He was treated very unfairly by our government! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018 “Will be giving a Full Pardon to Dinesh D’Souza today,” Trump wrote. “He was treated very unfairly by our government!” Though he pleaded guilty after he was indicted on criminal counts of illegally donating to a campaign and causing false statements to police, D’Souza and many of his fans believe the charges themselves were a form of political retaliation. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed A series of books and films critical of President Barack Obama led some to speculate that he was prosecuted more harshly than others in his position by Obama-appointed U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. He avoided prison, though, and spent eight months in a halfway house before beginning a five-year probated sentence. A judge also ordered him to pay a $30,000 fine. The charges against him stem from his admitted violation of campaign contribution limits ahead of the 2012 U.S. Senate race between Republican Wendy Long and Democrat Kirsten Gillibrand in New York. D’Souza used a number of straw donors, primarily acquaintances illegally using his money to donate on his behalf, so he could support Long to the tune of $20,000. This was in violation of federally imposed limits. Do you support Trump's latest pardon? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. In a 2014 interview, he expressed “relief” at the terms of his sentencing, noting that it would not hinder his ability to produce another politically charged film in time for the next election cycle. “I feel relief, exhilaration — not because I didn’t get a significant sentence, but I was facing a much bigger sentence that would have seriously affected my work and ability to make another movie for election year,” he said. “My sentence restores some faith in a Democratically appointed judge, a Clinton appointee, can look a Democratic government prosecution in the eye and say ‘no’ to the 10-16 month prison sentence they wanted for me.” In light of a White House visit by socialite Kim Kardashian West on Wednesday, there had been some speculation that a presidential pardon could be forthcoming. The fact that D’Souza would be its beneficiary, however, came as a surprise across the board. West met with Trump and administration staff to discuss prison reform, specifically lobbying for clemency in the case of Alice Marie Johnson. The 63-year-old was sentenced to life without parole more than 20 years ago on a first-offense drug conviction. RELATED: Retired FBI Officials Claim Halper’s ‘Highly Irregular’ Media Contacts Pose Major Problem I would like to thank President Trump for his time this afternoon. It is our hope that the President will grant clemency to Ms. Alice Marie Johnson who is serving a life sentence for a first-time, non-violent drug offense. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 31, 2018 “I would like to thank President Trump for his time this afternoon,” West tweeted on Wednesday. “It is our hope that the President will grant clemency to Ms. Alice Marie Johnson who is serving a life sentence for a first-time, non-violent drug offense.” Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
SYDNEY – A hotel valet had a lucky escape – but the luxury sports car he was trying to park did not. Australian media say the valet drove the soft-top Porsche Carrera under another vehicle Thursday outside the Hyatt Regency Hotel in Sydney. Emergency workers cut the driver out from the Porsche as a crowd watched. Matthew Talbot, the hotel’s director of sales and marketing, told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. the valet was “embarrassed and a little bit shocked” but was OK. The larger vehicle was propped up and its wheels were anchored while the vehicles were separated. The black Porsche, its hood and front bumper crunched and dented, was then backed onto a tow truck. Witness Jonathan Bayle said he thought a television show or movie was being shot. The hotel said in a statement it was investigating.
Actress-comedian Roseanne Barr took a swipe at former Obama senior advisor Valerie Jarrett on Tuesday, saying the longtime political operative is what you’d get if the “muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby.” “muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj,” Barr tweeted, with “vj” appearing to stand for Valarie Jarrett. Barr’s tweet was in response to a news article about Jarrett’s alleged role in a CIA plot to spy on the president of France. muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 When confronted on Twitter by CNN reporter Andrew Kaczynski about her tweet involving the Sunni Islamist organization, the 1968 sci-fi film, and Jarrett, Barr replied, “It’s a joke.” In a tweet sent moments later, Barr wrote, “ISLAM is not a RACE, lefties. Islam includes EVERY RACE of people.” Barr’s initial tweet, however, ignited a firestorm of rebuke on social media. Activist Shaun King and New York Times reporter Sopan Deb both shared Barr’s post while acknowledging that the 65-year-old actress is currently the star of the popular eponymous sitcom on Disney-owned ABC. How in the world does @ABC & @Disney justify this? Roseanne literally just said that Valerie Jarrett, who was Senior Advisor to President Obama, is like the Muslim Brotherhood & Planet of the Apes having a baby. This is the gross normalization of bigotry in America. https://t.co/zPYE1nBGPA — Shaun King (@ShaunKing) May 29, 2018 this is what roseanne said early this morning, referring to valerie jarrett. currently, she is the star of a prominent ABC show and someone the president called to congratulate. https://t.co/AmNp4fAETy — Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) May 29, 2018 Barr’s tweets about Jarrett followed the actress’s tweetstorm about the ties between Chelsea Clinton and leftist billionaire George Soros. Chelsea Soros Clinton — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 Clinton responded to Barr, which led the actress to fire off two more Chelsea Clinton-bashing tweets. Good morning Roseanne – my given middle name is Victoria. I imagine George Soros’s nephews are lovely people. I’m just not married to one. I am grateful for the important work @OpenSociety does in the world. Have a great day! https://t.co/mXokiTEwN7 — Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) May 29, 2018 I'm sorry-Chelsea Clinton IS NOT married to a nephew of George Soros-i apologize for the mistake! ! #Sorry — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 CORRECTION: CHELSEA CLINTON IS NOT MARRIED TO A SOROS NEPHEW. HER HUSBAND IS THE SON OF A CORRUPT SENATOR, SO SORRY!: https://t.co/FuEVnmnxu4 — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 At press time, neither Jarrett nor ABC had commented on Barr’s comments. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson
This morning in Monaco, I moderated a panel for the Convention of Independent Financial Advisors on the implications of an “uber-ized” economy. In my introductory comments, I asserted that the best part of capitalism was “creative destruction.” Simply stated, we all benefit when entrepreneurs come up with products such as personal computers that make our lives better. But I also pointed out that creative destruction was the most painful part of capitalism. Think, for example, about the people who used to work in the typewriter industry. One of the speakers, Professor Philippe Silberzahn of the EMLYON Business School, cited another example. Kodak used to be one of the biggest and most profitable companies in America, but the digital camera (ironically, first invented by Kodak) set the firm into a death spiral. What was creative for the rest of us would us causing destruction for the people who worked at Kodak and the investors who owned shares of Kodak. Click here to view the chart. It’s easy, as an armchair economist, to argue in favor of creative destruction. As explained in this video, this is why we are far richer than our ancestors. Even if our ancestors worked in the candle industry and were bankrupted and tossed out of work when the electric light bulb hit the market. But armchair theorizing (even when accurate) doesn’t change the fact that change means temporary pain. And this is a political challenge. Especially since those who suffer are the “seen” and the beneficiaries often are “unseen.” But none of that changes the fact that politicians should not intervene. Assuming, of course, the goal is long-run increases in living standards for everyone. In a column for CapX, Tim Worstall elaborates on how we become richer when we produce more with less. Warren Buffett tells us all that slashing jobs is just the capitalist way. …But Buffett is wrong. This isn’t the capitalist way at all. This is just the way that any and every economy should work. Whether communist, socialist, social democratic or capitalist, all economies will economise on inputs into a process. That is what actually makes us richer. Buffett’s subsequent point – that “people live better when there is more output per capita” – is right. But that’s not specific to capitalism. …as Paul Krugman has pointed out, productivity isn’t everything but in the long run it’s pretty much everything. …Today, instead of everyone working in the fields, just 2 per cent of us do so. The other 98 per cent of the population are busing trying to sate some other human desire or want. And thus, we have the labour to run a health service, libraries, ballet companies, vital cat picture websites, manufacturing, ketchup plants and the like. Being economical with labour is the very thing that makes civilisation itself possible. … William Nordhaus has pointed out…entrepreneurs – for devising a new process which uses different or fewer inputs is the very definition of entrepreneurship – end up with some 3 per cent or so of the value they create. The remaining 97 per cent flows to the rest of us in the form of consumer surplus. By the way, I’m not surprised that Buffett is wrong. He’s goofed before when venturing into public policy. Tim closes with a very important point. Not enough people realise that using fewer resources to do something makes us richer. And yes, human labour is just such a scarce resource that we wish to economise upon using. Perhaps if people understood this, they’d stop arguing that solar power is better than nuclear because it produces more jobs for the same amount of electricity produced. And since we’re on that topic, here’s an item from Libertarian Reddit revealing a leftist who genuinely seems to think that the goal should be to produce less per unit of labor. Sounds like Ms. Kohn should spend some time with this video. But I like to be even-handed in my disdain for bad economics. Trump is a protectionist who wants to preserve certain jobs in certain industries. But if we try to stop progress, we all lose in the long run. The best way to help workers and investors who suffer from creative destruction is to have pro-growth policies so that if you’re in a disrupted sector, you have plenty of opportunities to quickly rebound.
It’s the greatest fake news story of all time. Grieving reporters gathered in Ukraine on Wednesday evening for a press conference about an anti-Kremlin Russian journalist who’d been gunned down in his home a day earlier. Veteran war correspondent Arkady Babchenko — who’d fled Moscow for Kiev last year due to fears for his life — was surely just the latest person to meet a grisly end after crossing President Vladimir Putin, and news outlets across the world were hungry for more information. Yes, the head of Ukraine’s security service told the press — and authorities had now arrested a man who’d received $40,000 from Russian intelligence to organize a hit on Babchenko. see also Ukraine faked journalist's assassination to catch hitmen An anti-Kremlin journalist who reportedly was gunned down outside his... And that’s when Arkady Babchenko walked into the room — sheepish but very much alive. His “death” had really been an elaborate ruse to foil the very real assassination plot against him, he explained, “I’m still alive, and I’m not going anywhere,” the 41-year-old told the stunned room. The stunt had been in the works for two months, Babchenko explained — when the Ukrainian Security Service first learned there was a bounty on his head. The agency contacted him a month ago. “We were in touch the whole time, thinking things through and working them out,” he said Wednesday. They finally went into action Tuesday, when Ukrainian authorities announced that the high-profile reporter’s wife had found him bleeding out inside their apartment — and he’d later died on the way to a hospital. A gunman had been lying in wait outside their apartment, and pumped three bullets into Babchenko when he left to buy bread, police had said. The authorities went all-out making it seem like a real investigation. Graphic photos of the reporter apparently lying facedown in a puddle of blood with three gunshot wounds in his back were released to the public. The government circulated a police sketch of his alleged assassin — a bearded man in his 40s wearing a blue baseball cap, denim jacket and jeans. It worked. Friends and colleagues posted tributes online, while weeping neighbors laid a makeshift shrine of flowers and photos outside his home. Vigils were in the works and people had began fundraising for the futures of his six children. The slaying made headlines around the world, and set off a diplomatic spat between Moscow and Kiev — with the Ukrainian government pointing the finger at the Kremlin for the “murder” while Russia hit back that its former ally “is becoming the most dangerous country for reporters.” The whole hoax lasted 20 hours, before the big reveal at Wednesday’s surreal press conference. Babchenko apologized to his wife for “putting her through hell over the past two days” — although she and their kids were in on the scheme. “Only people who had to know about this operation knew about it,” said Vasiliy Gritsak, head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Friends and coworkers weren’t among them. In Babchenko’s own newsroom at Ukrainian television station ATR, some colleagues erupted in exuberant cheers while others covered their mouths in shock as they watched the scene play out on TV, footage of the moment shows. “I should probably apologize for putting everyone through this, because I’ve buried friends and colleagues many times, and I know the sickening, disgusting feeling when you have to bury your colleagues,” he said. “I’m sorry that you were forced to go through all this, but there simply was no alternative.” Babchenko and Gritsak didn’t explain specifically why the mastermind behind the assassination needed to believe the journalist was dead before he could be arrested — but the security chief insisted it was necessary. The man, who officials dubbed Citizen G, had allegedly approached several acquaintances to carry out the hit — and one of those people had tipped authorities off to the plot, the BBC reports. Citizen G ultimately recruited a Ukrainian war veteran for the job, and promised to pay him $30,000. The middleman was set to pocket $10,000 for his own efforts. Authorities released footage of two men exchanging money inside a car — and of Citizen G’s arrest on a public street. Citizen G was also paid to stockpile weapons for larger terror attacks in the Ukraine, including hundreds of Kalashnikovs, bullets, grenade launchers and explosives, authorities said. After the slaying, he planned on fleeing the Ukraine for Russia, Gritsak said. Babshenki said it was clear Russia was behind the plan because the would-be killers had received information on him that could only have come from the Kremlin — including a photo from a decades-old passport. “As far as I know, this information could only be obtained by the intelligence agencies and only at the passport office,” he said. They were also given negative comments Babchenko had made about Putin annexing Crimea, such as, “Putin is an usurper who got power through force. There are no elections. Because elections are the FREE will of the people,” according to Buzzfeed. The story may sound like something out of a bad thriller novel — but Babchenko had very real reasons to fear for his life. The Moscow native had begun his adult life as a soldier, drafted into the Russian Army at 18 and sent to first in the first Chechen War before volunteering for the second. But he became an outspoken critic of Putin when he started working as a war correspondent — railing against military action in Georgia, Syria and Ukraine. “It was hard for him to justify the endless repetition of his Chechen experiences for others,” Russian reporter Leonid Bershidsky wrote in a column for Bloomberg. But in December 2016, Babchenko really pissed off the regime when a Red Army plane carrying a military choir to sing for troops in Syria fatally crashed — and he wrote a Facebook post saying he felt no sympathy for the dead. “After all these wars and deaths, I felt only one thing when I heard that the representatives of Russia’s military had died: indifference. But for some, expressing this on Facebook was not patriotic enough. And so it began,” he later wrote in another post explaining why he was leaving Russia. Politicians and state media said he should be deported, his home address and phone number were published online — and he was inundated with death threats, he wrote. “A pro-government ultranationalist TV channel, Tsargrad, recently released a list of the — I’m number 10, and I fought twice for this country. A country I no longer feel safe in,” he wrote in the post. He fled to Ukraine months later in early 2017 — but still feared he wasn’t out of reach of the Kremlin. Former Russian politician Denis Voronenkov had escaped to Kiev after speaking out against Putin in 2016 only to be gunned down in public last March — leaving Babchenko wondering if he’d be next, friends said. “Today we got the answer to that question — he was right, famous Russian public figures are vulnerable in Ukraine,” Moscow-based BBC report Ilya Barabanov told the Daily Beast before Babchenko’s fake-out was revealed. After Babchenko’s remarkable return from the dead Wednesday, reporters gathered in Kiev’s Maidan square to crack open champagne. “That was the best news conference in my life,” Olga Musafirova told Reuters. “I have never experienced such emotions at any official event. We watched … at a studio of a TV channel and I realized that I burst into tears and it was tears of joy.” But the news was met with scorn from Russian officials, who denounced the whole episode as a “propagandistic effect” — as well as press advocates. “[Reporters Without Borders] expresses its deepest indignation after discovering the manipulation of the Ukrainian secret services, this new step of a war of information,” the group’s secretary tweeted. “It is always very dangerous for a government to play with the facts, especially using journalists for their fake stories”
The first question that comes to mind when hearing that Hillary Clinton would like to be CEO of Facebook is: How would they fit all their servers into her bathroom? We learned about Clinton’s desire to run the social media giant from a question posed to her during an event at Harvard University where she was receiving an award for her “leadership.” This for a woman who didn’t even have the courage to face her distraught supporters on election night 2016, own the defeat and tell them the truth. As her lackey John Podesta was lying to the confused and crying crowd at her election night party about it not being over, she was on the phone conceding to her rival Donald Trump. “Speaking at Harvard University before receiving an award Friday, Clinton was asked a hypothetical. … If Clinton could be chief executive of any company right now, which company would she choose? ‘Facebook,’ Clinton said without hesitating,” the Los Angeles Times reported. “Clinton said that she’d want to be in charge of the social media giant because of the immense power it has over the world’s flow of information. ‘It’s the biggest news platform in the world … but most people in our country get their news, true or not, from Facebook,” according to the newspaper. It makes sense that the woman who set up bootlegged email servers and installed them in her bathroom while secretary of state would like to run Facebook. It’s apparent her goal, since she was guaranteed to win the race (you know there are insurance policies for that, right?), was to make sure she controlled the flow of information. She accomplished this by resorting to those unofficial (and unprotected) servers, roping off media like cattle, refusing interviews, and trusting in her legacy media sycophants to make sure the party line was never disturbed. Then there was that damn internet. Her media put up with being roped off, but then pictures of it hit the Web, and folks in flyover country weren’t impressed. Then, looking wobbly and unwell two months before the election, she had to leave a Sept. 11 event, collapsing into the back of a van. But that was OK because the press pool was told to not follow her, and they obeyed. But then there was some guy with a damn phone who didn’t get the order to not see anything, and his video of her being obviously ill and apparently fainting ended up on, yes, the damn internet. The Clinton effort during the campaign to weave an alternate reality failed, in large part because social media didn’t let her get away with it. The Clintons understand the deleterious impact of the Internet on scoundrels. In 1998, Newsweek dutifully spiked a story about Bill Clinton having an affair with a White House intern. Then some unknown blogger named Matt Drudge had the gall to publish it. A nobody (at the time) on the internet ruined their control of information. Twenty-one years later, millions more nobodies (you can call them deplorables) continued the American tradition of speaking truth to power. The difference in a generation was the addition of Facebook and Twitter to the equation. Her excited Facebook admission reveals her ongoing obsession with controlling what people are allowed to know. We know Hillary Clinton well, and it’s fair to say that her interest in running the news and social media entity has nothing to do with defending and increasing the free flow of information. The twice-failed presidential candidate was receiving “Harvard’s Radcliffe Medal for her leadership, human rights work and ‘transformative impact on society,’ ” the Daily Mail reported. The people of Libya would probably be surprised by that. As would our abandoned heroes in Benghazi, who were murdered. Fewer voices generally do make it easier for the establishment to give itself awards. But Clinton didn’t stop at musing about CEO jobs. She had a dire warning for the crowd at Harvard: “Right now we are living through a crisis in our democracy. … I say this not as a Democrat who lost an election [um, yes, she is], but an American afraid of losing a country.” Let’s look at what Clinton and her Democratic Party pals consider a crisis. Since the election of President Trump, we’ve accomplished: • The destruction of ISIS. • The release of 17 American hostages who had been held across the globe. • The largest tax cut in history. • Record low unemployment overall. • Record low unemployment of women, blacks and Hispanics, specifically. • Rising wages. • Consumer confidence at an 18-year high. • Household income at a 50-year high. • 2.5 million people off food stamps. America is blossoming again, and the fact that it’s a crisis for the establishment tells you everything you need to know. This column originally appeared in The Washington Times.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Every day law enforcement officers have lies launched against them. Internal Affairs handles the allegations. Before the inception of body cameras, officers who were falsely accused of misconduct had to wait for the completed investigation, which causes undue stress. Thankfully, for the innocent officers, body cameras are available. They often carry the evidence needed to exonerate law enforcement authorities in a matter of days, instead of weeks or months. A Texas Highway Patrol Trooper stopped Sherita Dixon-Cole for suspected drunk driving. Cole failed the field sobriety test. She was placed under arrest and transported to jail for Driving While Intoxicated. The video footage from the arresting officer’s body camera was another routine traffic stop with an arrest. That was until Cole decided to lie about the incident. Shaun King, a known social justice activist who hates the police, decided to jump into the discussion as well. King failed to verify Cole’s claim’s and went on a Facebook rant of over 700 words, which was shared over 56,000 times, perpetuating the fake story. Once again, not surprisingly, Shaun King looks like a fool. King stated on his Facebook that he received “facts” from Cole’s attorney, who is good friends with her. Cole told her attorney the officer began grabbing her clothes and sexually molesting her before raping her behind a building. But it didn’t happen. Instead, the officer followed the law and protocol. Shaun King doesn’t care about what happened. He only cares about pushing a social justice warrior story. If King cared about the truth, he would have asked to see the video before going on an embarrassing Facebook diatribe full of lies. Social justice warriors are their own worst enemies. Recently, in South Carolina, a pastor and NAACP president of his community lied about a traffic stop as well, claiming it was racially motivated. The officer’s body camera showed the stop was lawful and there was no misconduct. Irony fills these stories. People like Shaun King and different NAACP leaders wanted officers to wear body cameras. They claimed there is systemic racism in law enforcement, and this would stop it. Now, the tide has turned against those who pushed for the equipment in some cases. This is similar to officers who watch a stop sign because people in the neighborhood are complaining about it running all the time. Officers start to enforce it and issue everyone tickets, and the one who called attention to law enforcement gets a citation for running the stop sign. All you can do is shake your head sometimes. The worst part is Shaun King will not face any consequences. He will still be able to contribute to the New York Daily News, and other liberal publications because he pushes the false narrative. The only justice that has been brought by the SJWs has assisted law enforcement. They wanted body cameras, and they got them. Officers are exonerated faster than ever before. Fewer complaints are sustained because there is quick proof that most allegations are false. King is an opportunist. He seeks the next chance, not change. Cole’s story was another incident to seize for alleged police misconduct, but King failed. Again. He could have easily avoided the chagrin if he paid attention to the shocking details of the story. Instead, King learned the driver was African-American, and the officer was white. That was all he needed. Body cameras are the best thing that happened to law enforcement. They brought the justice that Shaun King wanted, but to the other side of the debate. That must sting a little.
The decision by NFL team owners this week to allow the league to levy fines on their teams when players kneel or otherwise act disrespectfully on the field during playing of “The Star-Spangled Banner” leaves me with mixed feelings, particularly as we approach Memorial Day. As a soldier, I honor our flag and the national anthem as symbols of our great country. All members of our armed forces do. I serve in the Army now because, like others in the military today and in years past, I am a proud patriot. All of us now serving volunteered – and are willing to lay down our lives if need be – to express our love for America in actions as well as words. I see kneeling during the playing of the national anthem as disrespectful to our country and especially disrespectful to those who made the ultimate sacrifice while serving in our military – the patriots we honor on Memorial Day. At the same time, I acknowledge that protests have an important place in American history. As a black man I’m well aware that without civil rights protests, our country would look quite different today. I stand on the shoulders of civil rights activists and the abolitionists protesting slavery a century earlier. I would not be where I am without them. If the new NFL policy required all players to stand on the field for the anthem I would oppose it. Patriotism should never be compulsory. But the NFL struck the right balance by allowing players to protest by staying in the locker room while the anthem is played. This lets them express their protest by their absence, without disrupting a moment of reverence for Americans who wish to honor our anthem and our flag. At the same time, the NFL leaves is up to individual teams to decide if they want to discipline players who kneel or hold other on-field protests while the anthem is played. The league itself would only take money from the teams – in the form of fines – rather than penalize players directly. Forcing players to participate in displays of patriotism against their will is wrong; putting reasonable parameters on protests is not. If you’re on the job and drawing a paycheck, an employer has a reasonable expectation that you will be working during your assigned hours. If I go to the grocery store, I expect a clerk to ring up my purchase – not to stage a demonstration with my ramen noodles. If I board a plane I expect the pilot to fly, not to leave me sitting on the tarmac as she voices her political views. And in the same way, when millions of Americans tune in to a football game they expect to see … well … a football game. Yet we still ought to be careful not to muffle free speech entirely. It would be unconstitutional for government to do this, and just plain wrong for corporations and other businesses to do it as well. Companies like Google and Mozilla, which have fired employees for simply expressing political views different from those of the company, were wrong. In this context, we ought to approach the NFL’s decision with caution. Instead of blindly cheering whenever “the other side” loses a battle to speak or protest freely, we ought to consider the long-term implications involved. Make no mistake – businesses, nonprofits, colleges and other organizations across the United States are taking note. My fear is that some of them may distort the NFL decision to further justify the silencing of any dissent within their ranks – even in situations where an employee’s personal views have no impact on his or her ability to do the job and where the employee’s work is not disrupted. To be sure, private companies have the right to make whatever rules they want, as long as they don’t violate any laws. But the NFL protests don’t revolve around a legal question. The issue is a cultural one. Before patriotic Americans throw up “mission accomplished” banners in celebration of the new NFL policy designed to end the kneeling controversy, we ought to be clear in what we define as success. Success isn’t when your personal views are represented at the expense of someone else’s. It’s when our country allows the free market of ideas to flow without a mob mentality meddling in its affairs. As we remember and honor our fallen military service members on Memorial Day, let’s remember we should also honor the values they fought and died to defend, including the right to speak and protest whatever we perceive as unjust.
What does Memorial Day bring to mind? Those who have served in the armed forces, for sure – especially when that hallowed group of people includes men and women we have known and loved. But there's something beyond that – something that touches every single one of us, regardless of personal ties to our military. And that is the cause that people in the military served: America. As an immigrant to the U.S., I think often about this country that I've joined and what makes it special. I'm constantly trying to learn about it – to absorb the stories of America's founding, its struggles, its character, its triumphs and its faults. No other country, it seems to me, is at the same time so exuberantly confident and deeply self-critical – and that's a source of incredible strength. That's how you make a union more perfect over time. If there's one thing that defines America for me, it's the ideal of freedom – the notion of liberty under the law that underpins everything else. But liberty is not just a question of law. It's a question of behavior too, and it seems as if America today is in danger of losing something incomparably precious: the habit of freedom. I'm talking about the freedom to think and speak your mind. More and more, I meet people who tell me they are frightened to say what they think, frightened to get into conversations about politics or current events. They are frightened to exercise their freedom. There once was a time when the left was the champion of freedom. Think back to the 1960s and the fights for women's liberation and civil rights, the incredible explosion of creativity in music and fashion and art. But we can see now that not all the consequences of these 1960s movements were positive – especially when you look at the social and economic impacts of the breakdown of the family, Whatever your view of these revolutionary changes, we can all agree that they represented a powerful and heartfelt expression of freedom. And many of those revolutions were driven by young people, who were overwhelmingly on the left. The left was instinctively on the side of freedom. But look where the left is today. Why are more and more people in America frightened to say what they think, frightened to express themselves and exercise their freedom? It's not because of President Trump – quite the opposite. People aren't exactly holding back when it comes to expressing opinions about our president. It's not conservatives, or libertarians, or Republicans who are clamping down on freedom of thought and expression. It's the left. And it's frightening. Instead of standing for freedom as it once did, the left in America today stands for control. Those on the left are the new Puritans, marching around telling everybody off for the way they behave. You know what it's like – everyone does. Everyone has experienced it. You can barely say a word about anything remotely contentious these days without some joyless leftist martinet popping off about your words being unsafe, or triggering or culturally appropriated, or whatever the latest Orwellian epithet is about sexism or racism or some other awful ism or phobia. Of course, sexism, racism and other forms of discrimination are wrong. But the way you fight those things is through judicious, thoughtful and considered activism. Not the brain-dead mind control tactics of the new Puritans on the left. And the left today is not just puritanical. It's tyrannical. Left-wingers tell you what you're allowed to think, what you're allowed to do, what you're allowed to say. Not just on university campuses, as has been reported for years now. But in the workplace. In our children's schools. Throughout corporate America. We hear the whole time from the left that people on the right – President Trump or Brexit supporters in particular – are xenophobic. But I've never heard a Trump or Brexit supporter try to shut down the thought or speech of people who think or speak differently than them – the way that the left does today. That's what xenophobia means. It's a suspicion of people who are different. The left today cannot countenance anyone or anything that is different. This new puritanism of the left is imposed with utmost brutality, in true authoritarian style – something I know well from the way my family was treated in Communist Hungary. If you transgress you are shamed, punished and destroyed. The left talks endlessly about diversity and then proceeds to crush the most important diversity of all, the diversity that is the foundation of human progress – diversity of thought. There is no freedom of thought, of speech, of anything on the left these days – only conformity. A miserable, joyless conformity as the new Puritans impose their intolerant, bigoted, narrow-minded worldview on everybody else. The left’s new Puritans are making sweeping advances through our culture and institutions. They are in the process of taking over the Democratic establishment and imposing their authoritarian ideology on the party that once proudly stood for freedom. The Puritans will most likely nominate one of their own as their presidential candidate in 2020. And they will deservedly lose. Because Americans love freedom. They hate being told what to do and how to think. That's why America was founded in the first place. It's why America became the greatest nation in the history of the world. It's what the Americans who served in the armed forces fought for. Young people especially cherish freedom. They especially hate being told what to do. That's why I'm confident that at some point there will be a revolt against the new Puritans on the left, and against their authoritarianism and intolerance. So while the Democrats might think their Puritan takeover is good politics today, it will come back and bite them in the end. Because the instinct for freedom is deep and strong in America and the left's authoritarian tide will be turned one day. We'll be debating this on Sunday at 9 p.m. EDT on “The Next Revolution” with our guests, including Candace Owens. Hope you can join us!
TULSA, Okla. — A Delta Air Lines flight from Portland, Oregon, to Atlanta was diverted to Tulsa, Oklahoma, Wednesday because of an onboard disturbance involving a passenger. Tulsa International Airport spokeswoman Alexis Higgins said Delta flight 1156 landed about 11:30 a.m. and that the passenger was removed to be questioned by the FBI. Higgins said she did not know the nature of the disturbance and a Delta spokesman did not immediately return a phone call seeking comment. FBI spokeswoman Andrea Anderson in Oklahoma City confirmed the agency is investigating but referred questions to the US Attorney’s office in Tulsa. A phone call seeking comment was not immediately returned. In a statement, Delta said the flight was diverted because of an “unruly passenger” but that it landed without incident. The airline apologized to other passengers who were inconvenienced because of the delay. Higgins said the aircraft refueled and resumed the flight to Atlanta about 1:35 p.m.
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — A Pennsylvania man who repeatedly stabbed a woman in an Atlantic City casino parking garage last year and then locked her in his car before she eventually escaped from the moving vehicle has pleaded guilty to attempted murder. David Legette, 54, of Bristol, entered his plea Tuesday as part of a deal with Atlantic County prosecutors. It was made public on Wednesday. Legette now faces a 16-year state prison term when he’s sentenced July 20. The Pennsylvania woman had an active restraining order against Legette when the attack occurred on July 2, prosecutors said, adding that the pair had previously been involved in a romantic relationship. While they were in the garage, Legette pulled out a knife and stabbed her 19 times. He then locked her inside the car, using the vehicle’s child-lock feature to make sure she couldn’t escape. As Legette drove in nearby Ventnor a short time later, the woman reached out of the window and opened the door from the outside, prosecutors said. She then rolled herself out of the car and landed in the middle of the road as Legette drove off. Witnesses saw the woman escape and quickly called 911 as Legette sped away from the scene. The woman identified Legette as her attacker to officers at the scene. He was located and arrested in Bristol on July 2 of last year, and prosecutors said the victim’s DNA was found inside the vehicle. The woman survived the ordeal. Besides the numerous stab wounds, she also suffered a partially eviscerated intestine and a lacerated liver and spleen.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Bring back The Mick... Dana Perino, former White House Press Secretary, co-host of Fox News Channel's "The Five" and host of "The Daily Briefing" and Chris Stirewalt Fox News Politics Editor and host of "Power Play", run through the daily goings on in the world of politics. It's a jam-packed podcast. Chris, coming off an all nighter wrapping up his new book and Dana, busy prepping her summer reading list (it's long) launch into a bevy of topics - Tuesday's primaries, the possibility of Bernie Sanders 2020 run and whether Republicans have underestimated public concern about health care. Plus, are we over the mailbag? Dana asks your thoughts. And Chris tests his knowledge of the Keystone State. LISTEN to "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What": Follow Dana Perino on Twitter: @DanaPerino and Facebook Plus pick up her books: "And The Good News Is..." and "Let Me Tell You About Jasper" now available in paperback. Follow Chris Stirewalt on Twitter: @ChrisStirewalt and subscribe to his political news note: 'FOX News Halftime Report' And pre-order his new book: "Every Man A King: A Short, Colorful History of American Populists" Click HERE for more "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What"
I recently wrote an opinion article for USA Today that was critical of the parenting choices of HGTV’s “Fixer Upper” couple, Chip and Joanna Gaines. I regret writing it. I didn’t write it to be hurtful, out of jealousy, or to cause controversy – all motives I was accused of. I wrote it for one simple reason: because I believed every word I wrote to be true. I was speaking from the personal experience of running my own company for nearly eight years. My own experience has taught me that even just one business venture takes an awful lot of time and effort each day, and that if I wanted to give my wife and three young children more of my time, I’d have to say “no” to many personal ambitions along the way. So I have. I run my business and life this way because I believe we live in an if/then world of cause and effect. If you want to lose weight, then you need to eat better and exercise. If you want to play the piano, then you’re going to have to take lessons. And so on. So when I heard Chip and Joanna Gaines say (again) that they wanted to spend more time with their children, I wanted to respond: “If you want to spend more time with them then stop saying ‘yes’ to every business opportunity that comes your way.” Many parents just like me have to work many hours each day to provide for our families. But I saw Chip and Joanna as being in a different position, because they no longer need to work as much as they do in order to provide for their kids. The Gaines take on so many new responsibilities so often because they want to. Which is great. There just seemed to be a disconnect between the amount of time they say they want to spend with their kids, and the business decisions they make that appear to prevent them from doing so. I thought it was a valid argument worth exploring. Then Chip Gaines responded to me via Twitter with an argument of his own, and suddenly an avalanche of his and Joanna’s supporters came crashing down, as I expected they would. Before I knew what was happening, dozens of major news organizations were covering the controversy including Fox News, and HuffPost, “Today” on NBC, Country Living, Deseret News, All The Moms, Yahoo Lifestyle and many more. Within a few days The Washington Times and Relevant Magazine had each published opposition articles slamming my opinion and point of view. The funny thing is that none of it deterred me in the slightest. Especially because tens of thousands of people had shared my article on social media and I was getting the feedback I wanted from the people that understood and appreciated what I was trying to accomplish. I wrote about Chip and Joanna Gaines specifically because, as reality television superstars, they have presented a lot of information over the years and portrayed a lifestyle for their viewers to develop opinions about. I developed one such opinion. I was convinced that the lifestyle they presented to the world was a great recipe for building loads of successful companies, but not necessarily a way to have more time together as a family. I wanted to make it clear that – regardless of how they juggle their businesses and family responsibilities at present – building a brand and empire from the ground up required them to sacrifice a lot of time away from their young children in order to get to where they are today. Fellow entrepreneurs would be wise to remember that fact when considering going down a similar path. All I was trying to do was provide a different perspective and discuss the potential consequences of the you-can-have-it-all lifestyle Chip and Joanna seem to portray to their millions of followers. For that reason, I was proud of what I wrote and I shut off my haters by taking my family out of the country for a pre-planned vacation to Mexico. But within 10 minutes of arriving at our destination and hopping on a tour bus, I started to feel very, very small. It was Mother’s Day in Mexico (May 10 every year) and our beautiful Mexican tour guide was a mother of five spending her Mother’s Day with a bunch of tourists. Her name was Sophia and she spent nearly an hour telling the people on my bus what it was really like to be a mother in Mexico. As I listened to her, I looked out the windows and saw huge piles of trash on both sides of the road. I saw farmers working in their fields during what Sophia called one of the worst droughts in recent history, and I heard stories of kids who can’t go to school anymore. All around me I witnessed poverty I’ve never known. As we saw a group of young children digging through piles of trash, my 7-year old looked up at me with tears in her eyes and asked: “Where are their moms and dads?” Suddenly the parenting choices of two well-meaning American parents paled in comparison. Especially because as bad as it seemed to be for some of the children I witnessed in Mexico, I knew in that moment that many children all over the world were suffering even more. I smiled as I realized how lucky any of those kids without parents would feel to have a mother and father like Chip and Joanna Gaines. I don’t know them personally, but I suspect they really are terrific parents. I’ve never said or thought otherwise. And just because Chip Gaines chooses to spend his time differently than I do doesn’t make him any less of a father. Mine was a flawed argument that projected my if/then belief system onto another family. My intention was to start a conversation about what it actually means to put family first, but my means of doing so were way off course. If our society is ever going to have the conversations we need to be having, judging and shaming one another is a terrible place to begin, especially when there are so many more serious concerns that need addressing. I still believe we live in an if/then world of cause and effect. But after this experience, the bar for which causes I want to affect has been significantly raised. I’ve never backed down from anything I’ve written before now, but maybe progressing in my beliefs and doing better next time is what being a fixer upper is all about.
Just 24-hours after Roseanne was fired by ABC for making a derogatory statement about former Obama advisor Valerie Jarrett (which she then apologized for), leftist comedian Samantha Bee included a segment on her TBS show in which she called current White House senior advisor Ivanka Trump a "feckless c*nt." Why? Because she dared to post a photo holding her son. "You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c*nt!” Bee said. My ♥? A post shared by Ivanka Trump (@ivankatrump) on May 27, 2018 at 9:07am PDT Meanwhile, Bee predicatbly got the facts wrong about the government separating children at the border and the Trump administration "losing kids." First, the government isn't losing kids. Instead, parents or sponsors of children who are also in the country illegally (yes, ICE and HHS place unaccompanied minors with parents who are already living in the U.S. illegally) aren't answering the phone when ICE agents call to do a follow up. Therefore, they can't be officially accounted for after leaving ICE or HHS custody. This doesn't mean they are lost, it simply means illegal aliens already in the country are avoiding federal immigration authorities. Further, this a policy from the Obama administration that has been continued by the Trump administration. “We do place children here with people or parents who are here illegally," a senior White House official said this week. “We are not able to deny placement [of children] to people in the country illegally.” Second, just like when American citizens are arrested for crimes, children are not taken to adult detention or jail facilities. Instead, they are separated from the offending parent. In the case of the current border crisis, the separation takes place when an adult enters the country illegally and is arrested. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has made it clear the Department of Justice will enforce immigration law, which includes prosecuting everyone who enters the country illegally. This is, after all, a federal crime. But hey, why get the facts straight when hurling the worst epithets at Ivanka Trump is easier?
One catch-and-release Florida lemon shark was apparently so bitter about being caught, he bit his captor on the foot — after he had been returned to sea. The attack occurred Monday when an unnamed fisherman reeled in a 3-foot lemon shark at Ponce Inlet at Lighthouse Point Park, Daytona Beach News-Journal reported. NORTH DAKOTA MAN'S MONSTER 15-POUND WALLEYE CATCH BREAKS STATE'S DECADES-OLD RECORD After releasing the creature back into the Atlantic Ocean, it soon “turned around and bit his foot causing minor injuries,” Volusia County Beach Safety and Ocean Rescue Capt. Tamara Malphurs told the outlet. Meanwhile, “the shark left the scene unharmed.” Malphurs surmised that the fierce fish “was very unhappy about being caught.” FISHERMEN FOUND WITH OVER 50 ILLEGALLY CAUGHT LOBSTERS The 52-year-old Mount Dora fisherman suffered minor injuries but was not hospitalized. Though lemon sharks are typically between 8 and 10 feet long, the University of Florida reports that they are not a “high threat” to humans. They are categorized as social animals that prefer group-living and feed at night. Nevertheless, lemon sharks “will not hesitate” to inflict a bite when threatened by humans, Discovery reports. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS -With AP
When you hear “Toblerone,” you probably envision the delicious, triangular Swiss chocolate bar filled with almond nougat. But today in England, the word means something much more alarming. Across the pond, the “Toblerone tunnel” is taking over Instagram as the new body-image craze. The phrase, first noted in the British press, refers to a specific type of thigh gap: the triangular space that develops beneath the extra-toned butts and thighs of, say, Emily Ratajkowski and Kylie and Kendall Jenner. Critics point out that, like the traditional thigh gap, the “Toblerone tunnel” is just another unrealistic — and problematic — body goal for women to aspire to. Luckily, twittizens don’t seem to be minding the gap. “Yeah I’ve got a toblerone tunnel . . . otherwise known as my throat,” writes one social-media user. “What in the actual f – – k is wrong with the world when girls are posting pictures of their arses on t’interweb and inviting people to check out their ‘toblerone tunnels?’. I always thought your toblerone tunnel was the one between between your nose and your chin,” writes another.
As digital companies grapple with new data protection laws for consumers in Europe, Facebook has been slammed for a cheap trick it used in an apparent attempt to get users to hastily accept a privacy policy that didn’t comply with the new laws. Social media sites use all sorts of methods to hold your attention and keep you coming back. You haven’t been on LinkedIn in a while? All of a sudden you get an email telling you a recruiter was looking at your page. You haven’t opened Instagram for some time? You soon find yourself getting a lot more push notifications about videos your friends are posting. Other tricks are more subtle like when you log onto Twitter and there’s a brief pause before your notifications pop up — that’s designed to keep you in suspense the same way the final reel of a pinball machine can take an extra second to fall into place. These sorts of things are part and parcel of using such services. But when you’re used to manipulating users, it can be easy to overstep the mark — and Facebook appears to have done just that. The European Union’s much-touted General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into effect in May, prompting people’s inboxes to fill with emails from companies about updates to their privacy policy and how they use customer data, in order to comply with the new rules. But according to a complaint filed by the European Center for Digital Rights on behalf of an anonymous complainant, Facebook used deceptive pressure tactics to get people to accept its privacy policy in violation of the GDPR. The complaint alleges that Facebook blocked users’ accounts if they did not consent and used “tricks” to get people to agree in the form of enticing them with fake message notifications to pressure them to click through so they could see the notifications. “[Facebook] used additional ‘tricks’ to pressure the users: For example, the consent page included two fake red dots … that indicated that the user has new messages and notifications, which he/she cannot access without consenting — even if the user did not have such notifications or messages in reality,” the complaint reads. Facebook has been contacted for comment on the complaint. The company has only just recovered from a global privacy scandal and the reaction on social media was damning. “This is disappointing, Facebook. You are losing users’ trust for a reason,” wrote Tristan Harris, founder of Center for Humane Technology who has been described by The Atlantic as the “closest thing Silicon Valley has to a conscience.” Harris spent three years as a Google design ethicist developing a framework for how technology should ethically steer the thoughts and actions of billions of people. Others who don’t spend their days grappling with such pertinent tech issues were equally admonishing of Facebook’s newest boondoggle. “Wow. That’s disgustingly devious. But brilliant, as idea,” wrote one Twitter user. Facebook is the second biggest digital advertiser and in the world and more data equals more money, so naturally it wants as few restrictions around how it uses that data as possible. The company recently moved the physical location of its servers holding user data outside of the EU as a way to skirt the GDPR for non-EU residents. What does the GDPR mean for you? Years in the making, the GDPR rules are prompting companies to rewrite their privacy policies and in some cases (like Microsoft announced) apply the European Union’s tougher standards in other regions where privacy laws are weak. Although they take effect as Facebook faces an enormous privacy crisis, that timing is largely coincidental. The regulation has little relevance for the United States, but any company with customers in the EU, if they offer goods and services in the EU, or if they monitor the behavior of individuals in the EU will be affected. Ultimately not much will change for you. Companies will keep on collecting and analyzing personal data from your phone, the apps you use and the sites you visit. The big difference is that now the companies will have to justify why they’re collecting and using that information. And they’re prevented from using data for a different purpose later, the Associated Press reported.
A man who had been deported twice is behind bars after crashing his vehicle into another car while on drugs, killing a Texas teenager who was on her way to the movies with her family. Edy Lopez-Hernandez, 27, was charged with “murder, intoxication assault and failure to stop and render aid in connection with the crash” after he crashed into the vehicle carrying 17-year-old Britney Baez and her family on Saturday. Houston Police Department said Lopez-Hernandez fled the scene of the crash with his 2-year-old son, who was in the car. A witness stopped Lopez-Hernandez and told him to return to the crash scene, KTRK reported. Baez’s sister, Nicole Baez, told KTRK that she was in the backseat with her sister when a car slammed into the rear of the vehicle they were traveling in. “We were on the way and we just stopped at that light,” Nicole Baez recalled. “I just remember sitting down on the sidewalk, my mom was still screaming my sister’s name. I can hear my dad asking for water. I could sort of see people around me, that’s when my arm started killing me,” she continued. Their father was critically injured in the collision and was in a hospital’s intensive care unit. Police said Lopez-Hernandez was detained and transported to a hospital once he returned to the scene of the crash. At the hospital investigators determined he was “under the influence of narcotics.” His toddler son was also taken to a hospital for treatment. A law enforcement told KTRK that Lopez-Hernandez appeared to be driving at 70 mph at the time of the crash. Records showed the he had been deported two times. A law enforcement told KTRK that Lopez-Hernandez appeared to be driving at 70 mph at the time of the crash. Records showed the he had been deported two times. Baez’s family has set up a GoFundMe to help pay for funeral costs. “We’re going to always think of you and you’re going to always be in our hearts,” Baez’s cousin, Nancy Gomez, told KTRK.
Hair braiding in Nebraska will no longer require a cosmetology license, if Gov. Pete Ricketts signs a bill passed by the state legislature last week. The state requires 490 days of schooling to become a licensed cosmetologist. Students have to learn how to apply makeup, style and color hair and must pass a licensing exam to become a licensed cosmetologist. Hair-braiding is barely taught in most cosmetology schools, but anyone wanting to make a few dollars by braiding hair – a practice most common in African-American communities, where traditional hair-braiding has been taught for centuries – has to go through the cosmetology licensing process. Those 2,100 hours of training can cost as much as $20,000 in tuition and fees. Getting licensed also requires a high school diploma or GED, as if passing algebra was essential to understanding how to braid hair. “To put it simply, this is ridiculous,” said Jessica Herrmann, director of legislative outreach for the Platte Institute of Economic Research. “Hair braiders must not only obtain permission from the government, but also spend thousands of dollars on course instruction on coloring, men and women’s cutting, waxing, home creative skills, skin and spa services and chemistry. This burdensome regulation creates a huge financial barrier to entry for this new class of entrepreneurs.” But skipping that lengthy and expensive process means facing the potential penalties for being an unlicensed cosmetologist. Those include fines of up to $25,000 and the potential of four years in prison. Hair braiders won’t have to worry about those punishments after July 1 if the new rules take effect. Hair braiding, along with the application of hair extensions and topical treatments like shampoos and conditioners, will no longer require any sort of license in Nebraska. The bill’s passage “will help small, mostly minority, owned businesses by removing an unfair and expensive barrier to their efforts and success,” said state Sen. Nicole Fox, R-Lincoln, who introduced the measure. The bill passed on a 42-0 vote, with six senators not voting. Ricketts has voiced support for the legislation, Fox said. Lawmakers in Nebraska may have been keeping an eye on the ongoing fight in neighboring Iowa over the hair braiding issue. Iowa’s licensing laws also require 2,100 hours of cosmetology training for hair braiders, but the state is facing a lawsuit over those requirements. READ MORE: Hair braiders tangle with Iowa bureaucrats in lawsuit challenging excessive regulations As Watchdog has reported, the two plaintiffs in that lawsuit are African-American women who have been prevented from starting businesses by the onerous licensing rules. One of them, Achan Agit, came to the United States as a refugee from Sudan in 2004. Though she’s been braiding hair in the African tradition since she was five years old, her lack of a high school diploma means she cannot be licensed to work in Iowa. These types of licensing schemes are getting more attention in state legislatures this year, not just because of the threat of lawsuits. The White House issued a report last year urging state and local governments to loosen licensing requirements and cut red tape to open employment opportunities. The report noted that the number of jobs requiring an occupational license has grown five-fold since the 1950s and argued that licensing schemes disproportionately affect the poor, who are probably less likely to spend time and money on licenses. In Nebraska, it seems, state lawmakers were listening.
Serena Williams’ catsuit at Tuesday’s French Open match was surely a winner. “Catsuit anyone?” she quipped on Twitter with a photo of her slimming black ensemble by Nike that also featured a red band around the waist. “For all the moms out there who had a tough recovery from pregnancy – here you go. If I can do it, so can you. Love you all!!” Williams’ win against Kristyna Pliskova was her first Grand Slam victory since giving birth last fall. She beat Pliskova in straight sets. The 36-year-old tennis champ, who is after her 24th Grand Slam title, will take on Ashleigh Barty in the next round. The new mom has always made headlines with her fashion choices. She most recently wore sneakers to the royal wedding reception. Williams’ fashion line, Serena, debuted Wednesday on her website with 12 core pieces. Prices range from $35 to $250.
You only get one first Game 1 of the Stanley Cup Finals. The Vegas Golden Knights made sure they left an impression with theirs, however excessive it may have been. Before their players went out and beat the Capitals in a wild 6-4 game Monday night, the team put on its own show pregame, a Game of Thrones-esque ceremony. It included a narrator describing how the west was won, a golden knight on skates taking out a group of skaters with red capes representing the Capitals and even a catapult launching CGI cannon balls at the opponents. “The Golden Knights army has vanquished the Kings, feasted on Sharks and grounded the Jets,” the narrator began, referring to the teams Vegas beat to get to the Stanley Cup finals. “Conquering enemies on land, sea and air, the West belongs to Vegas.” The extravaganza was capped off by boxing announcer Michael Buffer introducing the starting lineups. And yes, he did tell the crowd to “get ready to rumble.” Also in Sin City Monday, Lil Jon performed outside of T-Mobile Arena before the game to get the crowd even more riled up. The expansion team has not been afraid to go crazy for their pregame shows, especially during the playoffs, with Monday’s just the most elaborate one yet. Just imagine if there’s a Game 7.
3:04 Federal judge is 95 years young and will school you in ice dancing Robert Sweet is not only a federal judge — he’s also an ice dancer. His wife, Adele, gave him a pair of ice skates 20 years ago, and he’s been hooked on the sport ever since. Documentary produced by Fanny Texier. 1:22 Procrastinators are adrenaline junkies Procrastination might actually be a good thing, says business expert Steve McClatchy. He claims the adrenaline that comes with waiting right up until the deadline gives slackers an extra boost of energy to do the task at hand. 3:41 Incredible mechanic fixes everything with his feet This inspirational mechanic does just about everything with his feet. Despite having no arms, Angel Marrero is able to change tires, swap out spark plugs, and even drive his own car. The father of one dreams of running his own auto body shop in Lowell, Massachusetts. “I don’t think about the pain. I like doing it,” he told The Post. “Cars are my thing.” 1:50 New Yorkers shame line-cutter back where he belongs The only thing worse than waiting in a long line is watching some jerk try to sneak their way past everyone and jump to the front. In New York City, there are lines everywhere. Unfortunately, there are just as many dopes trying to cheat the system. Luckily, New Yorkers are always ready to put these blockheads in their place (which is all the way in the back). 3:56 This masseur focuses on 'reproductive areas' Brooklyn-based spiritual masseur Luo Dong is known for giving free massages around New York. His unconventional practice focuses on women's and men’s nether regions, which he says hold special "yin" energy. Now Luo Dong is offering his clients “long distance” massages via webcam. 2:26 Women are getting designer nipples to look more like Kendall Jenner “My nipples never get hard,” complained one New Yorker, a 28-year-old hoping to walk away with breasts like Kendall Jenner. Lucky for her, designer nipples are popping up all over New York. Dr. Norman Rowe, a Park Avenue plastic surgeon, says many of his female patients want that “high beam or headlight look.” Procedures at Rowe’s office, which include Botox fillers injected into the areola, start at $700 and could last up to two years of perkiness. 3:03 These grannies are learning how to kick ass Avi Avramcheyiv, the owner of New York Self-Defense Academy , doesn't let age get in the way of self-defense. He's developed a senior self-defense class that teaches elderly people to use Krav Maga techniques to ward off attackers. The course focuses on moves that even people with physical disabilities can pull off, as opposed to the more advanced moves younger students learn. None of these students are likely to become the next ultimate champion, but they'll at least feel safer walking home at night. 3:00 Actors with Down syndrome star in off-Broadway hit Down syndrome won’t keep these actors from starring in an Off-Broadway play. Jamie Brewer and Eddie Barbanell play the lead character in “Amy and the Orphans,” a memoir about playwright Lindsey Ferrentino’s aunt. The production at Roundabout Theater in New York created a male version of the show, “Andy and the Orphans,” once they cast Brewer’s understudy. 1:19 Sick waiters and filthy menus are ground zero for the flu Restaurants might be the flu’s best friends. John, a waiter who’s been working in the service industry for 13 years, told The Post he’d have to be “hallucinating” to call out sick from work. Since tips are the bulk of waiters’ income, most restaurant workers can’t afford to take a day off. So the next time you pick up a menu, utensils or condiments, know that an under-the-weather waiter could have just put his grimy hands all over them. Produced by Katie Hyde
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. To hear many in the media tell it, President Trump’s withdrawal from the Iran Deal was the worst thing to happen since he was elected. “Trump withdraws from Iran nuclear deal, isolating him further from world,” a CNN headline read. A New York Times reporter said the president is “isolating the United States from its Western allies.” The BBC, meanwhile, said: “He has put US diplomacy on a collision course with some of Washington's closest allies. And some fear that he may have brought a new and catastrophic regional war in the Middle East that much closer.” Notice a pattern? Almost all of the criticism I’ve cited here (and I could cite many more examples) focused on how Trump is breaking with the rest of the world – as if that, in and of itself, is irrefutable evidence of error. Newsflash: There is no inherent value to swimming with the tide. Yes, we should pay attention to what our allies are doing, but to suggest that following a different course of action is proof that we’re doing something wrong is ridiculous. Real leadership is standing up for what’s right, regardless of what others are doing. Indeed, it takes genuine strength to buck the trend. And the trend on the Iran deal is something that definitely called for some serious recalibrating – something that our big-thinking president excels at. Trump knew that the Iran deal, far from ensuring peace, has been posing a threat to it. So it followed that having a huge player such as the U.S. pull out of it wasn’t dangerous. On the contrary, getting rid of a bad agreement is a key first step to avoiding the real danger: a nuclear-armed Iran. “This was a horrible one-sided deal that should have never, ever been made,” the president said. “It didn't bring calm, it didn't bring peace, and it never will.” Our allies know this. For political reasons, though, they can’t say so publicly, so they have to leave the U.S. to take the flak. That’s fine. Trump is up to it. So is Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who went before an audience at The Heritage Foundation recently to clarify the administration’s rationale. Pompeo first explained why the deal had to go. Iran has continued – under an agreement that so many claim is the key to peace – to be “the world’s largest sponsor of terror.” Since the agreement went into effect, he said, Iran has funded terrorism in Lebanon, Iraq, Yemen, and Afghanistan, among other areas. Not anymore. They’re about to get hit with some serious sanctions. “Iran will be forced to make a choice: Either fight to keep its economy off life support at home or keep squandering precious wealth on fights abroad. It won’t have the resources to do both,” Pompeo said. The Secretary also focused on something else we’ve heard precious little of from the media: the Iranian people. “Iranians are angry at a regime elite that commits hundreds of millions to military operations and terrorist groups abroad, while the Iranian people cry out for jobs, opportunity and liberty,” Pompeo said. “The Iranian regime’s response to the protests has only exposed that the country’s leadership is running scared. Thousands have been jailed arbitrarily, and at least dozens have been killed.” Yet the same leftists who at other times flaunt their concern for human rights are more concerned about upsetting the leaders in Tehran that the people they treat so atrociously. Iran can forge a new deal with the U.S., Pompeo said. But it will have to comply with specific demands that, unlike the old Iran deal, actually stop their march to a nuclear weapon and bring their reign of terror in the Middle East to a halt. In short, establish real peace. Hard to imagine a better reason to break with one’s allies and withstand slings and arrows from the media.
It was the year 1994 when model Elizabeth Hurley was catapulted to international stardom thanks to a few well-placed safety pins. Hurley stole the show in a plunging black Versace dress at the London premiere of “Four Weddings and a Funeral.” But despite it being considered one of the most iconic outfits of all time, the 52-year-old wouldn’t be caught dead wearing the dress in 2018. On the set of a photoshoot for Grazia UK, the “Royals” star declined the chance to don the iconic outfit if stylists could track it down. “I’m not sure I would, to be honest. People don’t like to wear their wedding dresses again do they?” Hurley told the publication. “I think you couldn’t look better in it second time around. I mean, 24 years on, you could end up feeling slightly depressed, so, no! “That dress is definitely for someone 20 years younger than me.” Hurley was attending the 1994 film screening on the arm of the romantic comedy’s star Hugh Grant and quickly shifted the spotlight from the actor, who she was dating at the time. While relatively conservative by today’s red carpet standards, her dress made the front page of newspapers and Hurley a household name. Today Hurley is still making headlines, this time for the age-defying photos she shares on Instagram, which she admits are mostly taken by her 16-year-old son Damien. #Maldives @elizabethhurleybeach #oliviabikini A post shared by Elizabeth Hurley (@elizabethhurley1) on May 30, 2018 at 7:08am PDT
Music streaming service Spotify has backtracked on their initiative to ban “hate content” from the platform, reinstating rapper XXXTentacion and declaring, “We rolled this out wrong.” “We rolled this out wrong and could have done a much better job,” declared Spotify CEO Daniel Ek. “The whole goal with this was to make sure that we didn’t have hate speech… It was never about punishing one individual artist or even naming one individual artist.” Ek added that the topic of removing “hate content” is a conversation Spotify will “keep on discussing.” XXXTentacion, who was charged with battery of a pregnant woman, strangulation, and false imprisonment last year, had been removed from playlists on the platform, along with singer R Kelly, who has been accused of grooming underage girls for sex. This month, it was announced that Spotify had partnered with a number of far-left groups, including the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), to police the content on the platform. Other groups Spotify partnered with include the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), Color of Change, GLAAD, Showing Up For Racial Justice, Muslim Advocates, and the International Network Against Cyber Hate.
Over the Memorial Day weekend, the Left ate some humble pie. I mean, a lot of it. You see while many joke around about Trump Derangement Syndrome, there seems to be a few left wingers who—you know—actually have it. Also, this weekend’s trip up is a friendly reminder that you should read the article before commenting on it. This foul-up stems from the Left’s collective fake news push over President Trump’s immigration policies. The latest criticism from Democrats is that the president’s crackdown on illegal immigration is splitting up families. So, when old photos of immigrants in detention centers surfaced, it had to be Trump’s fault right. Nope. These photos were taken in 2014. At the time, Katie wrote about the hordes of unaccompanied migrant children that were picked up at the border, the overcrowding at our detention facilities, and obtained exclusive photos of the event. Hi, @jonfavs. If you care so much about these kids, why did you delete this when you realized the story dates back to when Obama was in office? https://t.co/Zpen6NXlSJ pic.twitter.com/znf4Dnz4Sg — Jim Treacher (@jtLOL) May 27, 2018 Oops they did it again. pic.twitter.com/d2egDDJqgm — Ashe Schow (@AsheSchow) May 28, 2018 I saw this photo floating around and didn’t know if it was real. It is. Children of immigrants are being held in cages, like dogs, at ICE detention centers, sleeping on the floor. It’s an abomination. FULL STORY: https://t.co/V4zRJ43Lvn pic.twitter.com/tbUWSb4B05 — Shaun King (@ShaunKing) May 27, 2018 In a now-deleted tweet, former Obama speechwriter Jon Favreau said, “Look at these pictures. This is happening right now, and the only debate that matters is how we force our government to get these kids back to their families as fast as humanly possible.” Shaun King, Linda Sarsour, and Team Obama tried to bash the Trump White House only to have their Molotov cocktail explode inside the ship. Or to be more accurate, they shot inside their own ship. This was Obama’s crisis. All of this that’s being peddled by the Left on this issue occurred under the Obama administration. And this isn’t the first time they’ve done this; the liberal news media tried to say that the president was calling immigrants “animals,” when it was quite clear he was referring to MS-13. If the news media continues to wonder why they’re loathed and not trusted, well—here’s your answer. To the Left, you got caught peddling a lie. Time to confess and apologize.
Facebook should be regulated like the cigarette industry. Too much screen time is like digital heroin to kids. Internet addiction changes your brain similarly to cocaine. These are all headlines from recent articles in The Guardian, NBC and CBS News that cite preliminary studies looking at the addictive and potentially harmful effects of too much tech in our daily lives. The issue of how constant connectivity and screen time is affecting our behavior and mental wellbeing has become increasingly pertinent in recent times. Rightly or wrongly, a growing section of the population is concerned about it. Earlier this month, Google announced a suite of tools (coming soon) to help people achieve balance in their digital lives, citing that 70 percent of users wanted help with regulating their digital wellbeing. “We’re creating tools and features that help people better understand their tech usage, focus on what matters most, disconnect when needed, and create healthy habits,” the company said. It might sound a bit ridiculous because let’s be honest, adults should be able to self-regulate such things, and the cynical among us might point out that one of Google’s “solutions” simply involves steering people toward speaking to its AI-powered home speaker. But nonetheless, a group called Digital Wellness Warriors thinks it’s a step in the right direction and is calling on Apple to follow suit and put a greater emphasis on allowing users to pursue healthy digital habits. The group, which claims to represent a community of app developers and non-profit organizations, has started a petition asking Apple to open its software development kit to let developers help users with mental wellbeing. “We can assume that the majority of iPhone owners also need support to manage their smartphone habits, but as yet there are limited tools available to them,” the petition states. “Unfortunately, as digital wellness developers, we are restricted in our ability to help the iOS user base, due to the nature of Apple’s operating systems.” There are a handful of apps in the Apple app store that you can buy to help you monitor your screen time and social media use. But one of the very few free and easy hacks to help you tackle your mindless desire to reach for your phone is something known as the “greyscale trick.” It involves turning your iPhone screen monochrome in settings and judging by the number of people who share the hack on social media, there’s plenty who find it useful. The petition to Apple is the latest in a string of calls for the world’s richest tech company to address issues around phone addiction, particularly in kids and teens. An article in the New York Times earlier this year ran the headline: “It’s Time for Apple to Build a Less Addictive iPhone.” “It’s not Apple’s fault that you feel enslaved by your phone,” the article began. “But the company that gave the world the modern smartphone has a perfect opportunity this year to create a brave and groundbreaking new take on that device: a phone that encourages you to use it more thoughtfully, more deliberately — and a lot less.” Center for Humane Technology founder Tristan Harris has been described by The Atlantic as the “closest thing Silicon Valley has to a conscience.” He spent three years as a Google design ethicist developing a framework for how technology should ethically steer the thoughts and actions of billions of people. He believes Apple is perhaps the only company that could make a genuine effort to tackle the issue. “I do think this is (Apple’s) time to step up,” Harris told the Times. “In fact, they may be our only hope.” Unlike the other big tech giants like Facebook and Google, Apple doesn’t depend on tech addiction to keep serving you ads. They mainly just want to sell you a new laptop and iPhone every few years. The Times article came after two large Apple shareholders penned open letters to the company urging a stronger stance on iPhone “addiction” among children. New York-based Jana Partners and the California State Teachers’ Retirement System (CalSTRS) said the firm must do more to help children fight addiction on its devices. “There is a developing consensus around the world including Silicon Valley that the potential long-term consequences of new technologies need to be factored in at the outset, and no company can outsource that responsibility,” the investors who control $2 billion of Apple stock wrote. “Apple can play a defining role in signaling to the industry that paying special attention to the health and development of the next generation is both good business and the right thing to do.”
Univision, the embattled Spanish-language broadcaster, is hoping a change at the top will turn around its fortunes. As widely speculated, the company on Wednesday said it will bring on Vincent Sadusky as chief executive — succeeding Randy Falco. One of Sadusky’s first orders of business will be to bring on Peter Kern as a special adviser, The Post has learned. Kern, the current CEO of Tribune Media Co., who is currently overseeing his company’s merger with Sinclair Broadcast Group, serves on the board of Hemisphere Media Group, a Spanish-language firm, alongside Sadusky. Sadusky comes to Univision from Media General, where he served as president and CEO of from 2014 to 2017. He previously held several executive roles at Telemundo. Sadusky, 53, has been brought in to “clean up” Univision, which translates to modernizing the company with the possibility of preparing it for sale, sources told The Post. That desire isn’t exactly novel. In fact, Falco had been tasked with pretty much the same duties — but Univision tried twice unsuccessfully to go public, including as recently as March. That effort was withdrawn after Univision missed its estimated 2017 financial goals by $200 million. Falco had signed his new deal just months before letting the board know of the financial shortfall. The board would soon sour on Falco, sources said. Critics also knocked Falco for his lavish spending. The CEO bought a gold watch on behalf of the company for Univision ad sales chief Keith Turner, and gave Chief Revenue Officer Tonia O’Connor a Hermès purse, sources said. O’Connor, who has been a public face of the company, found herself in the middle of a PR kerfuffle in mid-May when Univision’s communications team tweeted a photo of her at the company’s upfront presentation highlighting her pricey Missoni outfit. “Staff are upset, and there were comments, saying, ‘How could they put a photo up of Tonia and promote her designer outfit when everyone else is being fired?’” a Univision source told Page Six at the time. Univision declined to comment. Management is hoping to turn the page with Sadusky’s arrival. “Vince is distinctly qualified to lead UCI through the next phase of its growth, given his impressive track record of leadership, vision, deep industry experience and relationships,” Univision Chairman Haim Saban said in a statement.
Warning: This story contains spoilers from Wednesday night’s series finale. TThe Americans” wrapped its six-season run Wednesday night, ending the saga of Reagan-era KGB agents (Matthew Rhys, Keri Russell) living undercover as happily married couple Philip and Elizabeth Jennings in suburban Virginia. When the dust settled, Philip and Elizabeth — finally busted by their suspicious neighbor, FBI agent Stan Beeman (Noah Emmerich) — fled back to Mother Russia, leaving behind college-age daughter/rookie spy Paige (Holly Taylor) and their clueless younger son, Henry (Keidrich Sellati), to deal with the fallout. “This was the one and only ending, so much so that we’ve actually known what the ending was going to be since about the beginning of Season 2,” series creator/executive producer Joe Weisberg told The Post. “At the end of the day, we wanted it to be a satisfying conclusion so that people feel something. We never felt that every single plotline had to be wrapped up, nor could it be. Life isn’t like that. “What we really wanted was people to feel they understood what had happened and [that] it made sense and it felt emotional and intense … and tragic.” While “The Americans” finale tied up most of its loose ends, it did leave at least one plotline awash in ambiguity — the possibility that Stan’s second wife, Renee (Laurie Holden), is a KGB agent. (Philip’s final words to a gobsmacked Stan: “I’m not sure how to say this, but I think there’s a chance Renee might be one of us. I’m not sure.”) Near the end of the episode, Renee hugs Stan on the driveway of their house, then stares across the street — watching FBI agents remove boxes of evidence from the Jennings home before turning and heading inside. “You know, it’s tricky,” Weisberg says. “It’s supposed to be unreadable, so I think we have to let that one sit. Stan is going to have to talk to [Renee] and I love that final shot when she comes up to give him a hug and we see that WTF? look on his face. He’s going to have to talk to her and deal with it. Is she going to freak out? These are questions we can’t answer.” The show’s final season, particularly the last three episodes, also saw Elizabeth’s cold-blooded-killer facade crumble just a little (she refused a direct order to assassinate a Russian delegate, then murdered a fellow KGB agent to save the delegate’s life). Weisberg is asked about this “180-degree” change — and if some viewers might have felt it was too sudden. “We’ve been getting that reaction from a lot of people, and I don’t think it feels as 180-ish to us because she’s still being loyal,” he says. “The orders are not legit to her, so not following illegitimate orders is still pretty consistent with who she is and has always been. The highest authority in her mind is not the KGB, it’s the leader of her country. “It would be fair to say that over the course of the show it’s always been clear in our heads that Philip was changing and evolving faster than Elizabeth — and, in fact, was in some ways changing at a relatively quick clip,” he says. “We saw Elizabeth as changing and evolving here and there, little cracks opening up . . . and in the final season a couple of those cracks would meet each other.” Says series executive producer/writer Joel Fields: “Our hope is that all six seasons of the show are seen as a dramatic piece — and that [the finale] feels like the final piece of the journey.”
Thursday at a press conference, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau criticized President Trump’s steel and aluminum tariffs against Canada, the European Union and Mexico. Trudeau said, “Let me be clear, these tariffs are totally unacceptable.” He continued, “Canada is a secure supplier of aluminum and steel to the U.S. defense industry, putting aluminum in American planes and steel in American tanks. That Canada could be considered a national security threat to the United States is inconceivable.” He added, “These tariffs are an affront to the long-standing security partnership between Canada and the United States, and in particular, to the thousands of Canadians who have fought and died alongside their American comrades-in-arms.” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN
A fishing boat takes part in the "Arcipelago Pulito" project in the Tyrrhenian Sea in Livorno, Italy. As part of the project in Tuscany, fishermen bring ashore the plastic they have collected on their fishing trips for recycling at a specialized plant. The project is the result of an agreement among the Tuscan Region, the Ministry of the Environment, Unicoop Firenze and Revet Recycling under the supervision of the coast guard of Tuscany. About 10 percent of the volume of each fish haul is plastic waste. Getty Images
Following the most recent school mass shooting – this time in Santa Fe, Texas, where 10 students and teachers were killed and 10 were wounded Friday – family members, friends and investigators find themselves searching for illusive answers. Why did this happen? How do you make sense of such a senseless tragedy? Texas Gov. Greg Abbott pointed out that unlike other recent mass shootings, “there were not those types of warning signs. The red-flag warnings were either nonexistent or very imperceptible.” The accused shooter’s parents said the media reports of the shooting seemed “incompatible with the boy (they) love,” and the 17-year-old boy’s best friend said he was “one of the most responsible people I knew. He didn't drink or do drugs, to my knowledge … he was academically proactive, making all A's.” Given the profile that is emerging, investigators have not yet identified the motive for the shooting. I, however, know precisely why this latest killer did what he did. And I also know what will motivate the next killer to act in a similar way. Many years ago, as I began investigating high-profile murders in Los Angeles County, I carefully chronicled the motives for every homicide that occurred in our region. You might think there are a million reasons why someone would commit a murder, but there are only three possibilities. At least one of these three motives is the driving force behind every homicide, theft, burglary and robbery. In fact, these three motives lie at the heart of every conceivable crime or misdeed. Human misbehavior is motivated by: financial greed, sexual – or relational – lust, and the pursuit of power. You might be wondering if there is a fourth category. There isn’t. What about jealousy? What about anger? Ask yourself the question: What is causing the jealousy or anger? There are only three answers to this question, and now you know them. The notorious gang, MS-13, inadvertently confirmed these three motives when leaders chose the motto for their criminal organization: Kill, Steal, Rape, Control. All murders (kill) are motivated by financial greed (steal), sexual lust (rape) or the pursuit of power (control). Sometimes only one of these motives is the driving force behind a crime. Sometimes two or more are involved. The latest school shooting is a good example. While there doesn’t appear to be any financial motive, the killer does appear to have been driven by the other two motivations I’ve described: Sexual Lust – A 16-year-old girl killed in the Santa Fe shooting, Shana Fischer, was apparently pursued by the accused killer in the days and weeks prior to the shooting. Her mother said the accused shooter “kept making advances on her and she repeatedly told him no.” According to Shana’s father, she “told her mother two weeks ago he was going to come and kill her.” The Pursuit of Power – This form of motivation can be very nuanced and includes one’s sense of respect, authority, embarrassment, prestige or control. For example, as the accused killer became “more aggressive” in his advances toward Shana (approximately one week prior to the shooting), Shana eventually “stood up to him” and “embarrassed him in class.” In addition, several news organization have reported that the accused shooter was bullied and “mistreated at school.” Episodes of perceived disrespect and embarrassment are often the motive for murder. This would also explain why some of the accused killer’s friends said that he recently “started wearing a trench coat” and telling students he was “buying knives off Amazon.” The accused shooter incrementally sought the respect (and fear) of others, a classic example of the pursuit of power. During the attack, the killer even selectively spared students he liked “so he could have his story told.” This effort to elevate his fame and prestige after the fact is consistent with the motive I’ve described. Since only three motives lie behind school shootings like the ones we’ve seen recently, I sadly expect to see more shootings in the future. Unless we, as a nation, are willing to embrace and promote a worldview that helps us understand the proper role of money and financial stewardship, promotes sexual purity and restraint, and helps us place the needs of others ahead of our own desires, we can expect more of the same. Those restorative values may sound familiar to you; they used to be part of our collective heritage and our common worldview. They are also our last and greatest hope if we ever expect to minimize and contain the only three reasons anyone commits a crime.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. The cast of 'American Chopper' stopped by to spend "A Few Moments With" FOX News' Jacquelyn Karl to discuss the return of their reality series on Discovery Channel. The show chronicles the lives of Paul Teutul Sr. and his sons Paul Teutul Jr. and Mikey as they build incredible motorcycles and operate their business'. The Teutuls shared with Jacquelyn what they have learned in the over 15 years since their series premiered and how they work together in business and in family. The new season of 'American Chopper' premiers Monday, May 28th at 10 P.M. Follow Jacquelyn Karl on Twitter: @Jacquelyn_Karl
Tensions from the nearly month-long eruption of Hawaii's Kilauea volcano appeared to have boiled when a man was arrested Tuesday after firing a gun during a confrontation in a neighborhood near an ongoing lava flow. The incident in the Leilani Estates subdivision happened after 12:20 p.m. when a resident surveying the area of his former home with a group of people, which was destroyed by lava, was approached by 61-year-old John Hubbard in his pickup truck, Hawaii Police said in a news release. The resident told authorities that Hubbard assaulted him, then pointed a gun at him and demanded the group leave the area immediately. "During the argument, the suspect fired several shots from a handgun," police said. "No one was injured by gunfire, and the victim sustained non-life-threatening injuries stemming from the assault." Police arrested Hubbard, also of Leilani Estates, near the scene without incident. He is now facing a first-degree charge of reckless endangering, according to police. While police did not name the victim, a video posted to Facebook by Ethan Edwards shows the encounter, including the gun shots that Hubbard fired into the air. WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT AND LANGUAGE BELOW "This was my yesterday. Happy to be alive," Edwards wrote in a Facebook post. "Be careful out there folks. This situation is really beginning to take its toll psychologically and the bad weather is contributing to emotional tensions. Folks are breaking down" Edwards continued that police were called "immediately" "Briana Spangler was present along with Aurorah Davis Lauren Kaech and Preston. We're all ok physically," he wrote. "Just shaken psychologically." Hawaii County Civil Defense Administrator Talmadge Magno told Hawaii News Now that that tensions were high in the neighborhood, where at least 75 homes have already been destroyed. "They've got this live volcano in their backyard," Magno said. "They feel like, they see strange people in their subdivision, whether it's people just wanted to go see lava or criminals, and they try to protect stuff." HAWAII VOLCANO LAVA FLOW DESTROYS OVER 70 HOMES, UTILITY POLES AS IT CUTS OFF KEY HIGHWAY Magno added that there is "a lot of stress" right now" in the area, and for those that have not evacuated are experiencing a "hard time." "I could see it coming, I know it's something that happens in a lot of disasters, whether it's in the shelters or in the communities, a lot of stress, a lot of things are going on there" he told Hawaii News Now. Earlier this month, two residents were arrested for attempting to blow past police barricades to enter the area, according to the news outlet. On May 9, police arrested a man for allegedly attempting to burglarize a Leilani Estates home just days after eruptions began. The U.S. Geological Survey told the Associated Press the lava was moving fast enough Wednesday night to cover about six football fields an hour. There are now a total number of 24 cracks spouting lava since the volcano began erupting on May 3, Hawaii County Civil Defense sad. HAWAII VOLCANO ERUPTION: HOW MANY PEOPLE ARE KILLED BY VOLCANOES? Hawaii County officials said lava destroyed the electric utility's equipment on the highway, which knocked out power to Vacationland and Kapoho Beach Lots. "You are at risk of being isolated due to possible lava inundation," the Hawaii County Civil Defense agency advised the public. Strands of volcanic glass called as Pele's hair was accumulating on the ground in Leilani Estates and surrounding neighborhoods, and winds may blow lighter particles farther away, scientists said. The strands can cause irritation and respiratory problems when it comes in contact with people. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Memorial Day 2018 It has turned into a day for grilling, beach parties, backyards and mattress sales, but Memorial Day is so much more than a day off from work. It’s time for final thoughts. WATCH: Dale Earnhardt's Grandson Honors America's Fallen at Memorial Day NASCAR Race Tomi Lahren on New NFL Anthem Policy: Americans Used Their Remotes and Made a Difference I hope you’re enjoying Memorial Day with your friends and family. But please take a moment in the midst of your fun and relaxation to remember what this day is all about. Memorial Day is a day to remember those who died in active military service. Without their service and sacrifice, we wouldn’t be able to enjoy all the things we enjoy today, or any day. I want to use my “Final Thoughts” to pay tribute to those who have paid the ultimate price. Specifically, I want to recognize the members of our armed forces who have been killed in action so far in 2018. Today is your day. Specialist Gabriel David Conde Here's one more of our fallen heroes in Colorado: 22-year-old Gabriel Conde. His remains were brought home this month after he was killed in action in Afghanistan. Don't forget to take some time to reflect on the true meaning of Memorial Day this weekend. @DenverChannel pic.twitter.com/P1BsXovfSs — Meghan Lopez (@Meghan_Lopez) May 25, 2018 Died April 30th in Afghanistan. He was 22. Master Sergeant Jonathan Dunbar .@CJTFOIR mourns the loss of @Coalition warriors MSGT Jonathan Dunbar and SGT Matt Tonroe, killed near #Manbij, Syria, 29 March. Our thoughts and prayers are with their families, friends, and fellow troopers. Rest easy. pic.twitter.com/ond4T4Dx7E — OIR Spokesman (@OIRSpox) April 1, 2018 Died March 30th in Syria. He was 36. We lost Staff Sergeant Dashan Briggs, Staff Sergeant Carl Enis, Captain Andreas O’Keeffe, Master Sergeant, William Posch, Master Sergeant Christopher Raguso, Captain Mark Weber, and Captain Christopher Zanetis in a helicopter crash on March 15th in western Iraq. Final respects paid to Staff Sgt. Carl Enis of the @920thRescueWing - https://t.co/jzIX1z2vna — Air Force Reserve (@USAFReserve) May 21, 2018 RIP US AIR FORCE Captain Andreas B. O'Keeffe, 37, of Center Moriches, New York; died March 15 when an HH-60 Pave Hawk helicopter crashed in western Iraq. pic.twitter.com/ycwL3936J5 — The Fallen (@War_Casualties) April 1, 2018 1) Let us Honor USAF Master Sergeant William R. Posch, 36 of Indialantic, Florida, assigned to the 308th Rescue Squadron, Air Force Reserve, Patrick Air Force Base, Florida, died (March 15, 2018) in a HH-60 Pave Hawk helicopter crash in Iraq. pic.twitter.com/WXy01XYDV7 — Terry (@TerranceCreamer) March 23, 2018 .@Smatz88 remembers New York Air National Guard Master Sergeant Christopher Raguso who also was a Lieutenant in the @FDNY. #MemorialDayWeekend #MemorialDay pic.twitter.com/Mlm2nuiHNQ — New York Mets (@Mets) May 26, 2018 Bartonville native Capt. Mark Weber's public memorial service will be held today. Please use caution when traveling along FM 407 today between 5 and 6 pm. More: https://t.co/3SmsfWxWFa pic.twitter.com/sAmlViW2sF — Town of Flower Mound (@flower_mound) March 29, 2018 He was a person willing to help, step up, always do the right thing, and always put others before himself -#FDNY Fire Marshal Tom Sabella remembers Fire Marshal Christopher “Tripp” Zanetis. Read more https://t.co/zZi6AxVTsP pic.twitter.com/1MpUbI6N22 — FDNY (@FDNY) March 21, 2018 Sergeant First Class Maitland D. Wilson DIED IN GERMANY 3/7/18 Army SFC MAITLAND D WILSON of Brooklyn NY 595TransBrigade Bahrain Died of an unidentified cause in a non-combat related incident in Landstuhl, Germany See https://t.co/kyBu47Br8p pic.twitter.com/iJ0WcqzNu0 — jerrygenesio (@jerrygenesio) March 10, 2018 Died on March 9th in Germany. He was 38. Sergeant Christina Schoenecker Honoring United States Army Sergeant Christina Marie Schoenecker, 26 of Arlington, Kansas, assigned to the 89th Sustainment Brigade out of Wichita, Kansas, died (February 19, 2018) in Baghdad, Iraq. R.I.P. pic.twitter.com/uZCmMqP3W8 — Military Support (@MilitaryEarth) March 14, 2018 Died February 19th in Baghdad. She was 26. Specialist Javion S. Sullivan In memory... Governor Henry McMaster ordered the flags atop the State Capitol Building lowered to half-staff from sunup until sundown on Friday, January 26, 2018, in tribute to Specialist Javion S. Sullivan, United States Army, who lost his life in Anbar Province, Iraq, pic.twitter.com/vIavGluyxK — PickensCountySC (@PickensCountySC) January 27, 2018 Died January 8th in Iraq. He was 24. And Sergeant First Class Mihail Golin Sgt. 1st Class Mihail Golin, 34, moved to the United States in 2004 from Latvia, and joined the Army a few months later. He was on his fourth combat deployment when he was killed Monday in Afghanistan. RIP.https://t.co/UpN54VFjEp pic.twitter.com/6PWtFY2n5u — Dan Lamothe (@DanLamothe) January 3, 2018 Died January 1st in Afghanistan. He was 34. We salute you: all 13 of you, along with your families, friends and loved ones. It’s because of you that we live in the greatest nation on Earth. You fought bravely to protect and defend all of us, even those who are too troubled to stand for the flag and anthem. Rest in peace knowing millions of patriotic and grateful Americans will always stand for you, in your memory, and with the utmost respect for what you’ve done for us and the rest of the free world. A hero remembered, never dies. Those are my final thoughts. From LA, God bless you, God bless America, and take care. Tomi Lahren: 'Knee-Jerk Reactions' on Gun Control 'Never the Solution' Tomi Lahren on Jerusalem Embassy Dedication: Trump 'Delivered on His Promise'
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. When you read the budget message President Donald Trump sent Congress earlier this year, you soon come across a concession that Washington insiders have been making for years -- just before they vote for bills they know will massively increase the federal debt. "The current fiscal path is unsustainable," Trump said, "and future generations deserve better." Trump then asked Congress for a budget that his own Office of Management and Budget estimates will cause the federal government to run a $984 billion deficit in fiscal 2019. Back in 2009, just before his first inauguration, President Barack Obama -- no fiscal conservative -- complained that the "deficit levels that (he was) inheriting" were "unsustainable." "At a certain point, other countries stop buying our debt," Obama told CNN in an interview broadcast on Jan. 18, 2009. "At a certain point, we'd end up having to raise interest rates, and it would end up creating more economic chaos and, potentially, inflation. So, what we need to do is say that, instead of just printing more money, let's look at medium term and long term. Let's get a handle on Social Security. Let's get a handle on Medicare. Let's eliminate waste in government, where it exists." Obama, of course, did not get a handle on deficit spending. He did the opposite. In his eight years as president, he expanded federal entitlement programs -- and the debt increased by $9.3 trillion. In Trump's budget proposal, as published by OMB, the $984 billion deficit for next year leads to a $987 billion deficit for fiscal 2020 and a $916 billion deficit for fiscal 2021. In other words, as the Trump White House envisions it, Trump will run annual deficits of more than $900 billion for the rest of the term he was elected to in 2016. He will do this even though he believes our "current fiscal path is unsustainable." But, under Trump's proposal, the annual deficits, as estimated by his OMB, would eventually drop to as low as $363 billion -- 10 years from now in 2028. This decline in the deficit would happen, in part, because Trump's budget assumes real GDP will grow at 3 percent or better for seven straight calendar years -- from 2018 through 2024. The last time real GDP grew by 3 percent for one full calendar year was 2005. The last time it grew by 3 percent or better for seven straight years was from 1983 through 1989 -- in the Reagan era. Even with its optimistic economic assumptions, the Trump budget concludes that the cumulative deficit over the decade from 2019 to 2028 will be approximately $7.177 trillion. This is despite the fact that the Congressional Budget Office, in its own analysis of Trump's budget, credits the president's proposal with cutting $3.5 trillion in would-be spending over the next decade from the CBO's current baseline. "The deficit reduction under the president's proposals relative to CBO's baseline would stem largely from lower spending, mostly for nondefense discretionary programs and mandatory health care programs," said CBO. "Between 2019 and 2028, federal outlays would be $3.5 trillion (or 6.3 percent) below baseline amounts." CBO's analysis, using its own economic assumptions, estimates that the cumulative deficit from 2019 to 2028 will be $9.474 trillion. But whether the cumulative deficit over the next 10 years ends up being closer to $7.177 trillion or $9.474 trillion, who is going to loan Uncle Sam the cash to cover it? The largest owner of U.S. Treasury securities today is the Federal Reserve. As of last week, it owned $2.387 trillion. As of March, entities in China owned another $1.1877 trillion, and entities in Japan owned $1.0435 trillion. But Chinese ownership of U.S. Treasury securities peaked in November 2013, when it hit $1.3167 trillion, according to the U.S. Treasury Department. It has declined about 9.8 percent from that peak. Japanese ownership of U.S. Treasury securities peaked in November 2014 at $1.2415 trillion. It has declined about 15.9 percent from the peak. As this column recently noted, Rep. Paul Ryan, who was then the ranking member on the House Budget Committee and who is now the departing speaker of the House, warned 10 years ago that the federal government was heading toward bankruptcy. "We have a fiscal crisis," Ryan said then. "If government's growth is left unchecked and unchallenged, America's best century will be considered our past century." The question for Ryan and his colleagues in the House and Senate now is: Will a Republican-majority House, working with a Republican-majority Senate and a Republican president, fail to put the federal government on a path toward a balanced budget?
Summer in the city calls for patios across the boroughs. L’Appart launches Jardin Privé, its 15-seat patio, on May 29. The Michelin-starred restaurant, famously designed to look like a cozy apartment, will now spill out onto a terrace that’s planted with flowers and herbs used by Executive Chef Nico Abello — from morning glories and moonflowers to mint, fennel, lemon verbena, lemon grass, tarragon and rosemary. Offerings from the venue inside Le District at 225 Liberty St. include a $200 caviar flight, a tasting menu of three Sturia caviars with a pairing of Champagne, Riesling and Gray Goose for an additional $60. There’s also a new rooftop lounge named RFTP, at the Pod Brooklyn Hotel in Williamsburg. The lounge, at 247 Metropolitan Ave., seats 100 people — 200 including the private party space — and boasts views from Brooklyn to the Manhattan skyline. It features a zinc bar and cushioned wooden “banquettes.” Dishes include a South-of-France style “vegetable garden” with seasonal veggies like baby carrot, radish and Romanesco broccoli. The dish also includes “edible soil” that will be quinoa based, with a touch of black olive and burnt leek powder to resemble dirt. The menu also includes an artichoke dip with cauliflower, garlic confit, seared fontina, pita chips; charcuterie; and paratha flatbread with feta, figs, arugula and balsamic. Drinks include on-trend frosé, an RFTP spritz and Modelo on tap.
A staff member from the “Steve Harvey Morning Show” died this weekend after being found unresponsive in his hotel room. According to an incident report obtained by Fox News, Bryan Cooke, an assistant of Harvey's co-host, Kier “Junior” Spates, was found dead at his W Hotel room in Atlanta, Ga., on Sunday. He was 39. Spates, who was scheduled to fly to Los Angeles with Cooke later that day, reached out to hotel staff requesting to check on his assistant after he was unable to get a hold of him, the document states. When hotel employees and Spates arrived to Cooke’s room, they found him in bed face down and cold to the touch, with blood and vomit coming out of his nose and mouth. The staffers immediately called authorities, according to the report. During an interview with the police, Spates said he and Cooke had gone out Saturday night and smoked cigars, adding that they did not take any drugs. He said Cooke seemed fine when they returned to the hotel. According to the report, there was no sign of forced entry and all of Cooke’s belongings were still in his room. Police also found a bottle of prescription pills in the room. It’s unclear if pills played a role in his death. On Wednesday, Spates shared a Facebook post honoring his late friend. “Just a little something to show y’all how much of a friend he was,” Spates captioned a video of him and Cooke acting together. “We would come up with anything. Please meet ‘BABYFACE’ Johnson and his right hand man BRYAN COOKE.” Concluded Spates: “This made me smile today. Love you man! Thanks for all of the laughs.”
Ohio and Pennsylvania’s first- and third-place finishes on a recent national ranking of student indebtedness comes as no surprise to those familiar with the issue in the two states. The personal-finance website WalletHub earlier this month released the study, which showed residents of Ohio, Mississippi and Pennsylvania carrying the heaviest student debt load among all U.S. states. Ohio ranked No. 3 in the category of overall student loan indebtedness and No. 20 among states in providing grants and student work opportunities. Pennsylvania came in fourth in student loan indebtedness and 19th in offering grants and student work opportunities. The state was No. 2 in the category of highest average student debt. “Both states are struggling with student loan indebtedness,” WalletHub analyst Jill Gonzalez told Watchdog.org in an email. “Ohio and Pennsylvania each have an average student debt of over $30,000, and over 66 percent of students have student loan debt. That’s one of the highest rates in the country.” The study also found parallels between the two states in terms of the low availability of student jobs. Citing numbers from the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics and Indeed.com, WalletHub found that there were only six to seven student jobs per 1,000 civilians aged 16 to 24 in each state’s labor force, according to Gonzalez. Several factors explain why the two states finished so high on the student debt ranking, she said. “The issue comes down to [the availability of] grants for public schools, student jobs during school to deter borrowing and employment post-college,” the WalletHub analyst said. And the debt numbers could encourage out-migration of students to other locales, according to Gonzalez. “There might be better opportunities in other neighboring states,” she said. Victoria Jackson, a state policy fellow at Policy Matters Ohio, a nonprofit research institute, said Ohio’s ranking on the WalletHub study comes as no surprise. Indeed, a Vanderbilt University study earlier this year rated the state 45th in college affordability. For the lowest-income families in Ohio – those making under $31,000 annually – it would take 81 percent of their earnings to send a family member to an Ohio public university and 31 percent to attend a community college, Jackson said. Student debt numbers have been exacerbated by the actions of for-profit colleges, the low level of state financial aid to students and lack of regulation of loan services, she said. “We’re finding that loan servicers are making it hard for people to pay back their loans,” Jackson told Watchdog.org. Often, students are eligible for less-burdensome income-based repayment plans but were not told about such options, she said. Typical for-profit college career programs in the state offer graduates earnings that are so low that they fail to end dependence on food assistance, according to Jackson. Their graduates’ annual earnings come in at more than $9,000 below that of certificate earners at public colleges and universities, she said. “The outcomes for students who attend them are so poor that it’s important to draw attention to them,” Jackson said. For-profit colleges also tend to prey on veterans, people of color and women, and they operate in an environment where there’s little regulation or oversight, she said. Ohio could help address its student debt problem by prohibiting for-profit colleges from receiving state grants, increasing regulation of loan services and expanding funding for Ohio College Opportunity Grants, she said. Jackson pointed to a report from Philanthropy Ohio that found the state ranked last in the Midwest in access to need-based financial assistance for higher education students. The Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency, which provides financial aid services to higher education students, has also been tracking the trend of increasing student debt in the state, according to spokesman Keith New. “As a public servant, we’re trying to chip away at the student loan debt,” New told Illinois News Network. The state agency has been conducting outreach efforts at high schools to encourage students to borrow only what they need and to ensure they will have the ability to pay back the loans, New said. The agency also operates a website, Mysmartborrowig.org, to encourage students to engage in thoughtful borrowing practices. “We are very sensitive of the growing student loan problem in Pennsylvania …” he said. “The key to reversing it is through increasing financial literacy and empowering students at an early age to be smart in making borrowing choices.” And because the numbers of high school graduates in Pennsylvania have been declining due to changes in demographics, the agency has been able to better meet the financial needs of students due to declining applications for aid, he said. The agency also offers loan forgiveness programs for those in the fields of public service and teaching.
I never met Mitchell “Mike” Flint, but before I had even heard of him, I knew about him and his legendary sense of being on the right side of history in the establishment of the State of Israel. When I read about Mitchell, Jewish and Israeli newspapers were filled with accounts of his life in obituaries that heaped praise on his heroism, and that of others like him. There’s a Jewish tradition to comfort the mourning surviving family members of one who dies and I was able to connect with one of Mitchell’s sons, to express my condolences and thanks, posthumously, for what his father did. We chatted, became friends, and through that I got to learn about his father and how we in Israel today have much to be thankful to him for. The story of Mitchell Flint is depicted beautifully in “Angels in the Sky” by Robert Gandt. The vivid story about Mitchell and dozens of others like him gives a sense of being there during the historic challenges they confronted. They were Jews and gentiles, some looking for action following their “retirement” as fighters in WWII, some looking to be part of the defense of the Jewish people and establishment of Israel. Some were religious and others were not. But a common sense of purpose and an historical opportunity united them all. Mitchell Flint was one of dozens of non-Israeli volunteers who comprised Israel’s first air force. Understood by Israel’s first Prime Minister David Ben Gurion that the coming war of independence could not be won without air cover, a plan was carried out to acquire as many planes and arms as possible for the fledgling Jewish state and its population of 600,000. “Angels in the Sky” depicts sometimes chillingly the efforts made to build an air force to ensure Israel’s victory. There were many challenges and setbacks, such as aircraft malfunctions and crashes, along with legal and military obstacles that required surreptitious counter measures. Many of those in charge of building the fleet put themselves in harm’s way, and legal jeopardy. Planes were ferried to Israel under cover of secrecy and darkness. Refueling stops became perilous and could not be taken for granted. In parallel, as Israel built a fleet of old aircraft that were left over from WWII, Israel also manned its air force in a piecemeal way, picking up volunteers from the US, from South Africa, Europe, and who were complemented by a handful of native born Israeli Jews who had flown in the British air force. Often there were more pilots than working planes. As planes got injured, in battle and through accidents, ground crew put together working parts from different planes to keep as many airborne as possible. “Angels in the Sky” is a compelling history told through the first hand perspective of the men who volunteered and fought these battles. May 29, 1948, two weeks after Israel declared independence, and weeks into heavy fighting that ultimately led to Israel’s improbable victory, was the day of Israel’s first air strike. Until that point, every effort had been made to arm to capacity, but the war would not wait for Israel’s air cover. Mike Flint had his first turn at combat against the vastly larger and better armed Egyptians a few weeks later. He and his team always knew they risked putting their lives on the line. Indeed, dozens of Israel’s founding air force were lost. But with the old planes they flew, risk came from other sources than Arab armies. Mike Flint was becoming more familiar than he wanted with the enclave called the Faluja Pocket. Every day, sometimes several times a day, Flint and his dive bombing team visited Faluja. The 4000 man Egyptian brigade inside Faluja had become isolated when the main Egyptian army retreated southward to Gaza. Eliminating the Faluja Pocket had become a prime objective. (On) the fifth day of Operation Horev, Flint’s dive bombers were again planting 50-kg bombs on Egyptian positions. The Egyptian gunners weren’t improving with practice. The same anti-aircraft fire was coming from somewhere in the enclave, but hitting nothing. Flint made his second steep dive on the target. He punched off his last four bombs. He opened with his machine guns to discourage the Egyptian gunners. Then he roared for the safety of the sea. Over his shoulder he could see the plumes from the explosion(s). Once again, he’d gotten away with it. Or so he thought. Flint’s wingman, John Soltau was sliding to his left wing, waving, pointing to the belly of Flint’s (plane). “I started to get this sinking feeling in my stomach,” Flint recalled. He knew what Soltau was pointing at. A hung bomb. Flint…pushed the bomber into a dive, then hauled the nose up in an abrupt four-G pull out. He did it twice. The bomb didn’t budge. This was just one of many air battles of Israel’s War of Independence. Watching air shows during the celebrations of Israel’s 70thanniversary which included aircraft sent from other countries to join the celebration, my mind turned to Israel’s first volunteer air force with profound gratitude. Without them, it’s hard to say what would be. But the book is a compelling tribute to one of the many ways that Israel struggled to survive against what would have been insurmountable odds in any other place. With combination of bravery, fortitude, and chutzpah, the improbable became real. Of course these men were heroes, but the book’s title also gives a wink to an invaluable element of the victory then, and Israel’s ongoing survival. Angels are not free agents. They don’t act on their own. They are agents and emissaries of God, and it’s easy to see, and essential to recognize, these men were the extension of God’s hand, or in this case His wing, protecting Israel as He’s always promised to do.
Too tired to make your own cup of coffee in the morning? Soon, you could outsource it to the help: robots. New software out of MIT will teach robots to do your least favorite household chores — just like in “The Jetsons.” Computer scientists from MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) have unveiled “Virtual Home,” a system that demos the robotic “agents” performing such tasks as turning on the TV, using the toaster or placing a pot on the stove. Robots, it turns out, require more detailed instructions than humans would. For example, instead of “Get me a glass of water, please,” you’d ask a robot to stand up, walk toward the cabinet, pick up a glass, close the cabinet, turn on the faucet, hold the cup under the stream of water and walk the full cup over to the thirsty human in question. To that end, the research team collected verbal descriptions of a series of tasks, which were then translated into special simulation videos — which the robots, fascinatingly, were able to watch and learn from. “This line of work could facilitate true robotic personal assistants in the future,” Qiao Wang, a research assistant in arts, media and engineering at Arizona State University, says in a press release. Next, Wang’s team hopes to train the robots using regular videos instead of what scientists call “Sims-style simulations,” which would allow robots to learn tasks from YouTube videos. But for now, we still have to make our own beds.
The Millennial Generation is now fully vested in the workforce, making way for Generation Z and giving Baby Boom and Gen-X managers heartburn. Lazy, unfocused, disloyal...many professionals seem to wonder what’s there? A lot from my vantage point as Director of the DeVoe Moore Center, a market-oriented public policy think tank, at Florida State University. I see and work with Millennials everyday as young men and women eager to enter into the professional workforce. But, as a Baby Boomer, I also recognize that this generation is different in fundamental ways. I need to be manage them accordingly to achieve our productivity goals. I have to think of them as entrepreneurs, not commodities. Over the past six years, the DeVoe Moore Center has growth from a staff of just one full-time and two part-time employees and faculty, all Baby Boomers, to an organization of nearly 30 (11.5 full-time equivalents). Eighty percent of these workers are Millennials, and they are fantastic employees when managed the right way. In fact, “managing” is not the right term for the way we approach Millennials in our workplace. Coaching and mentoring are more appropriate. Rather than think of our Millennial staff and researchers as traditional workers, we think of them as human assets that need to be nurtured, guided, and fulfilled. This management frame is fundamentally different from the one we often find in the traditional professional workplace where the principles of hierarchy and “paying your dues” prevail. New employees are “directed” by a supervisor and given specific tasks and assignments that meet goals or objectives that are abstract and ephemeral to new hires or lower-level employee. Millennials have little room for creativity or entrepreneurially directed passion. We have found Millennials need a purpose to stay fulfilled and committed to our organizational goals and objectives. When they see how they fit into the larger goals of the organization, and how their skills and effort will directly serve to meet those goals, they became inspired. More importantly, they become creative and entrepreneurial. For example, the DeVoe Moore Center recently seized an unusual opportunity to embark on an ambitious research project analyzing nearly 150,000 emails, texts, and reports to more fully understand the practical nature of economic development decisionmaking on the local level. I tasked our data analytics group manager, an undergraduate student in a compensated position, to clean the data, identify resources for analyzing it (knowing he did not have the skills), and present a research plan. He ended up independently laying the groundwork for partnerships with faculty and doctoral students in the university’s department of computation science and school of public policy. The faculty he interacted with assumed he was a graduate student based on his demeanor and professionalism. At the end of the academic year, he had job offers from two major national financial firms despite entering his senior year with a GPA well be below 3.0 in what is effectively an unfocused liberal arts major. This student’s story is not unique. We’ve found that flexibility in job descriptions, aligning core values with the organization’s mission, evaluations based on output and performance rather than inputs, and providing meaningful pathways to professional fulfillment have enable our inexperienced Millennial workers to thrive. They build skills useful for the workplace, learn the value of working in collaborative team settings, recognize the value of learning from failure, and produce work that is professional quality and grade. They have also become our best recruitment arm for new workers. (The DeVoe Moore Center has very high turnover because of its reliance on junior and senior undergraduate and masters level students.) As a working think tank, we have been able to create new programs such as a professional policy blog, expanding our social media presence, and launch research projects in core areas such as local land-use regulation because of their initiatives. We have also provided opportunities for students to create a portfolio of work, pursue research suitable for presentation at professional conferences, and create an information and knowledge base valuable to private companies and organizations. To be sure, the center’s rapid growth has come with many organizational tensions and conflicts. Building an infrastructure capable of supporting a younger, less experienced workforce has required accepting great variability in the quality of the input. We have adopted rigorous internal editing and quality review processes to ensure their work is refined in steps and stages of production. Some of these protocols and procedures have been emulated by other organizations and divisions within the university. But the expanding size of the DeVoe L. Moore Center’s workforce and volume of its output has been less of an obstacle than understanding and coming to grips with the attitudes and values of Millennials (and the emerging Gen Z). Over the years, we have experimented with different incentive systems, organizational structures, and communication strategies. We are now honing in on what we believe is a successful and sustainable business model. Fundamental to this new business model is thinking about the workplace as an applied laboratory for Millennials to test their wings and guide them to higher levels of productivity and quality output. The solution was reorganizing and refocusing the lower levels of the organization, not changing our goals or diluting our mission. Along the way, we have found several resources useful in thinking through how the Millennial workplace should be organized to leverage the enthusiasm, commitment, and entrepreneurial energy of this generation. Few primers have been more cogent in explaining the Millennial generation’s attitudes, expectations, and practical behavior than Gabrielle Bosché’s slim volume Five Millennial Myths. Bosché is principal in her human resource consulting firm Millennial Solutions. I first learned about the book and her views while attending Sayfie Leadership Summit in Florida where she was a keynote speaker. I was well into my transformation of the DeVoe Moore Center at the time, but Bosché’s experience as a human resource management consultant began validating much of what I experienced working with this generation. As Bosché ticked off the myths, and discussed their mirror attributes, I kept nodding my head as strings of light bulbs went in my head. She was giving me a more disciplined and rigorous structure to my ad hoc attempts to adjust the workplace to this generation. Millennials were not lazy; they just needed to be inspired. They responded well to being coached, and were turned off by lectures and micromanagement of their tasks. The key for managers is to recognize that this is a bottom up generation, more inspired by social impact than their predecessors, was also willing to invest long hours in meaningful work. Bingo. More recently, I have found that a different set of writings have helped me fine tune our management mode. A productive workplace for Millennials very much aligns with the principles of experiential, applied, and active teaching in the classroom. My workplace was not a factory churning out commodities. It was a work laboratory where we immersed our newest “hires” in organizational processes and expectations that allowed them to navigate the professional world. These principles and tools mirror “best practices” in effective teaching based neuroscience and our understanding of how learning happens. These insights about classroom learning fundamentally shape how we think and work with our Millennial staff. Learner-Centered Teaching: Putting the Research on Learning into Practice and How Learning Works: 7 Research-Based Principles for Smart Teaching are two of several books that summarize the state of the art when applied to college classrooms, and their insights are important for the workplace. Millennials instinctively have a growth mindset, a result of two generations worth of parents bucking them up with confidence and a sense of personal empowerment. This is a generation that is hands-on, active learners, willing to roll up their sleeves to get things done. They thrive in environments that encourage active learning, experiential education, skill acquisition, and practical applications for results. The more managers understand the benefits of inspiration, structure their workplaces for group learning, and recognize the knowledge generation is more powerful than knowledge acquisition, the more effective the Millennial generation will be. Our experiences at the DeVoe Moore Center have shown that the Millennial and Gen Z generations are an untapped resource of entrepreneurship and creativity waiting to be shaped by the right organizational leadership and structures. We are inspired and thriving because our Center happens to be located at the sweet spot in transition generations from students to professionals. By making the human resources shift to take advantage of an innate passion for achievement by enabling guided, bottom up, and goal directed effort, our younger works have leverage the experience and skills of more experienced staff to achieve significant growth in productivity and output.
A man who was captured masturbating in public on Monday told Florida police officers he was Captain Kirk from “Star Trek.” Officers from the Clearwater Police Department were called to a bus stop on Monday morning following a report of a “lewd and lascivious act,” WFLA reported. Officers stated they discovered a man sitting on a bench and touching himself under his pants. The officers noted in a police report that it was “obvious he was masturbating.” GUARD ACCUSED OF TEEN INMATE’S RAPE AT FLORIDA JUVENILE JAIL When asked what he was doing, the man told officers, “I’m scratching myself.” As officers were arresting the man for disorderly conduct, they asked for his name. The arrest report stated the man told him his name was “James Tiberius Kirk,” the same name as the “Star Trek” protagonist Captain Kirk, famously portrayed by actors William Shatner and Chris Pine. SEA TURTLE NESTS IN FLORIDA HURT BY ALBERTO Officers determined the man’s real name was James Bundrick, 56, and charged him with “disorderly conduct and providing a false name to law enforcement,” the Miami Herald reported. Bundrick, a native of Georgia, was in prison from 2013 to 2016 for “aggravated battery with a deadly weapon and delivering a fake bomb threat.” His bond was set at $400.
I think we can all agree it wasn’t the Ambien, that Roseanne Barr has a long history of spewing conspiracy theories and ugly attacks. But her spectacular self-immolation has ignited a cultural debate in this country over race, online venom, cultural standards and — inevitably — President Trump. Even as Barr, in a late-night tweestorm, blamed her racist slur against Valerie Jarrett on the sleep medication, and attacked some of her fellow cast members, she admitted that she was fully at fault: “guys I did something unforgiveable so do not defend me. It was 2 in the morning and I was ambien tweeting -- it was memorial day too -- i went 2 far & do not want it defended -- it was egregious Indefensible.” Fine. She’s right. There is no defense. What planet do you have to be on to talk about a black person and “Planet of the Apes”? There is also no question that ABC knew exactly what it was getting, which is why network president Ben Sherwood told the New York Times back in March that “you can’t control Roseanne Barr. Many who have tried have failed.” So obviously the network wasn’t unaware that Barr had a long history of tweeting ugly, unproven insults and wild conspiracy theories. And presumably she wasn’t on Ambien all those times. Roseanne retweeted at one point that “ABC is allowing the Trump haters to control their station” — even though it was the network that provided the platform for her pro-Trump reboot in the first place. The network gambled that she could revive her hit show — which she did, specifically tailored to appeal to Trump Country — and she did. But even as she was riding high, Roseanne couldn’t stay off the Twitter. And that cost her, the hundreds of people who worked on the show and the network that invested in her. With so many pundits on the left blaming the Roseanne debacle on Trump — who, of course, had nothing to do with it besides enjoying the show’s success — it was only a matter of time before the president joined the fray. It’s noteworthy that Trump made no comment on Barr’s racist tweet. Instead, he tweeted that Disney CEO Bob Iger “Bob Iger of ABC called Valerie Jarrett to let her know that ‘ABC does not tolerate comments like those’ made by Roseanne Barr. Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC. Maybe I just didn’t get the call?” I’m sure unfair things have been said about Trump on ABC News and every other network. I’m just as sure that they didn’t fall into the category of likening him to an ape. But HBO’s Bill Maher, five years ago, did jokingly compare Trump’s hair to an orangutan. And ABC’s lightning-quick dumping of “Roseanne” does raise questions about the media and cultural standards used when public personalities say offensive things. No action was taken against Joy Behar, for instance, when the “View” co-host mocked Vice President Pence’s religion. She eventually apologized, first privately and then publicly. MSNBC took no action against Joy Reid when a torrent of her homophobic tweets surfaced from a decade ago. She ludicrously claimed that her account had been hacked, but also apologized for her “dumb” and “hateful” postings. And ESPN action took no action against former “Sports Center” co-host Jemele Hill for calling the president a “white supremacist” and “bigot.” But the network suspended her for suggestion a boycott of the Dallas Cowboys for cracking down on player protests. On the other hand, CNN fired host Reza Aslan for tweeting that Trump was a “piece of s---” and “embarrassment to humankind.” CNN also fired pro-Trump contributor Jeffrey Lord for tweeting the Nazi salute “Sieg Heil.” Sarah Sanders weighed in Wednesday, saying: “Where was Bob Iger‘s apology to the White House staff for Jemele Hill calling the president and anyone associated with him a white supremacist? To Christians around the world for Joy Behar calling Christianity a mental illness? Where was the apology for Kathy Griffin going on a profane rant against the president on ‘The View’ after a photo showed her holding President Trump’s decapitated head? And where was the apology from Bob Iger for ESPN hiring Keith Olbermann after his numerous expletive-laced tweets attacking the president as a Nazi and even expanding his role after that attack against the president’s family?” Those are legitimate questions. In fairness, CNN dumped Griffin, and Olbermann, who made some extremely harsh anti-Trump videos for GQ, is being used by ESPN only on sports. But would the treatment have been different if the target wasn’t Trump? The bottom line is that each media organization sets its own standards, depending on the gravity of the offense, the popularity of the performer and the person’s past record. These problems were once far easier to sweep under the rug. But we all live in Twitter’s world now, where one ill-chosen phrase can end a career and online mobs can form at a moment’s notice. Roseanne Barr woke up Tuesday morning with the most popular show on television. But hours later she was unemployed because she touched the third rail of racism, and ABC executives concluded she had crossed a very bright line.
There's no doubt that what Roseanne Barr tweeted the other day regarding Valerie Jarrett, a former top adviser to President Obama, was racist. But did ABC Entertainment go too far when it canceled her television show? Referring to Valerie Jarrett, who is African-American, by her initials, Barr tweeted Tuesday: “muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj.” Barr later apologized to Jarrett and the public and deleted her tweet, calling it “a bad joke.” ABC said in a statement that Barr’s comments were “abhorrent and repugnant” – which they were. And ABC also said the tweet was “inconsistent with our values.” Now, that’s an interesting word for ABC to use – values. This is the same company that employs Joy Behar, a notorious anti-Christian bigot. Behar, a panelist on “The View,” recently belittled Vice President Mike Pence over his religious beliefs and suggested people who talk to Jesus are mentally ill. After a massive backlash from viewers, Behar was forced to apologize. However, she was not fired for her blatant bigotry. In addition, ABC owns ESPN, which earlier this month rehired the profane Keith Olbermann, a man who has been known to unleash a torrent of vulgarities at President Trump. He has repeatedly called President Trump a Nazi on social media, along with other words that are unsuitable to post in this column. Do the words of Behar and Olbermann reflect ABC’s alleged values? If not, why are they still receiving a paycheck? Well, that’s what we call Hollywood hypocrisy. It’s permissible for actors and broadcasters to attack conservatives and Christians. And Hollywood especially loves it when celebrities attack Trump supporters. This bears repeating – what Barr tweeted was detestable and racist and the network was well within its right to mete out a harsh punishment by cancelling her show “Roseanne.” But in doing so, ABC also punished dozens if not hundreds of other people – actors, writers, producers, costumers and makeup artists. Why not just write Barr out of the show instead of pulling the plug? Well, I have a theory about that. I contend ABC executives privately despised the program and were just looking for a reason to cancel the show. Think about it – ABC’s highest rated program attracted a huge audience of gun-toting, flag-waving, blue collar Trump supporters. And I believe that embarrassed network executives. “ABC set to dial back political humor from pro-Trump ‘Roseanne’ next season,” a recent Fox News headline declared. ABC Entertainment President Channing Dungey told reporters before “Roseanne” was cancelled that the comedy was going to stay “away from politics” and focus “toward family” in the upcoming season. Matt Drudge responded by tweeting: “Corporate cannibals stripping Roseanne of her fun.” ABC was basically telling journalists it was going to tone down all the rhetoric that appealed to Middle America – the people Hollywood and Hillary Clinton dismiss as a basket of xenophobic, homophobic, racist deplorables. A few hours after the network pulled the plug on “Roseanne,” MSNBC’s Chris Hayes summed his take on the scandal. “Roseanne’s problem turned out to be that she far too authentically represented the actual worldview of a significant chunk of the Trump base,” he said. And that’s why ABC canceled “Roseanne.” Network executives could not stomach the show’s “deplorable” viewers.
Most colleges offer capstone seminars and at least considerable support on finding a job. It’s a shame those don’t include considerable discussion of retirement planning, because early money grows the most and postponing retirement saving to age 40 usually has quite burdensome consequences. Student loans are an issue but from the first paycheck onward, everyone should be focused on getting out of debt — save a home mortgage — and participating in company retirement plans as soon as possible. Housing remains a good long-term investment but people often mistakenly buy more home than they need. To supplement a paid-off house in retirement and Social Security, a nice investment portfolio is needed too, as defined-benefits pensions become increasingly scarce outside of government service. Most folks don’t have access to private-equity deals or exotic real estate plays, and a diversified portfolio of stocks has proven best for the long haul. Over the last 50 years, the S&P 500 has outperformed 10-year Treasuries TMUBMUSD10Y, +0.55% by 2 to 1. Recent market turbulence has created a lot of anxiety but the steady gains from the election of Donald Trump through late January were exceptional — big swings are the norm even in a growing economy and long bull market. Those within 10 years of retirement should gradually adjust their portfolio from mostly stocks to half fixed income — the exact mix at retirement depends on factors, for example like money that may be needed for a child’s wedding. Most folks often underestimate what they will need in retirement. Mortgages may be paid and children grown, but we tend to spend more on ourselves. For one thing, annual health-care expenses can range up to $24,000 per couple, or even more, because Medicare premiums are scaled to income and many older folks elect some kind of concierge service like MDVIP. Most folks underestimate nonmedical expenses because regular avocations cultivated during working lives — assuming their kids gave them some time away from soccer, dance lessons, college admissions and the crises adolescent children create — don’t take up nearly all the leisure time available in retirement. Folks don’t garden or golf much in the winter and even the most avid reader or knitter wants to get out the house more. Hence, retired folks often spend more on travel and entertainment and many take up an additional hobby — I started biking at 65 and was shocked at how much it cost to keep my carbon-fiber speedster on the road logging 7,000 miles a year. Even well-established millennials sometimes need help from parents to get through rough patches or purchase a home — don’t judge them harshly, many baby boomers borrowed a down payment from their parents. Provisions are needed for the final decade of life when long-term care is often required, and one-time needs like a new furnace, roof or car still can cost more and come up sooner than anticipated. After auditing all that, estimating annual needs and subtracting Social Security benefits from the total, it is important to recognize we are living a lot longer these days. Couples who reach 65 in reasonably good health, embrace activities that keep minds active, and exercise regularly should plan on one partner living to 100 to be safe. The minimum annual distribution requirements for tax-sheltered retirement accounts imposed by the IRS at age 70 essentially assume longevity in that range. Simple prudence requires planning for retirement assets to last at least 35 years. At retirement, if funds are allocated one-half in an S&P 500 index SPX, +0.15% fund and one-half in fixed income — for example a ladder of CDs ranging from one to five or seven years, retirees can conservatively assume a 4% annual rate of return. Assuming overall inflation at 2.7% — 2.25% general living expenses and 4.25% for health care — and running down savings at a rate of 3.5%, the money should last 35 years. As a 4% rate of return is conservative, the money should last longer and some likely will be left for heirs. If your savings won’t support your anticipated spending at a 3.5% draw down rate, then you should plan to work longer or continue earning some money after leaving full-time employment. In any case, many folks find complete retirement boring and even stressful. This article originally appeared on MarketWatch.
Online car selling and trading giant Autotrader announced on Thursday that it has suspended it’s advertising sponsorship on TBS’s late-night show Full Frontal after host Samantha Bee called White House senior advisor Ivanka Trump a “feckless cunt.” “Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal,” read a message from the Autotrader official Twitter account. “he comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company.” “As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee,” the company’s tweet concluded. Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal. The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company. As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee. — Autotrader (@AutoTrader_com) May 31, 2018 On Thursday, as backlash against Bee mounted on social media, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders demanded a response from Time Warner and TBS on behalf of President Donald Trump. “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network,” Sanders said of Bee in a statement to reporters. “The language used by Samantha Bee last night is vile and vicious,” Sanders continued. “The collective silence by the left and its media allies is appalling.” Late Thursday, Bee took to Twitter to issue an apology to Ivanka Trump and her viewers. “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night,” Bee wrote. “It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it.” I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it. — Samantha Bee (@iamsambee) May 31, 2018 A PR representative for Turner Broadcasting did not return phone and email messages from Breitbart News. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson
Journalism got a lot smaller last week. The media lost two of their biggest names – author and journalist Tom Wolfe and Interview Magazine. Wolfe, who wrote “The Right Stuff,” spent decades making people appear larger than life. Interview, founded by pop culture icon Andy Warhol, used its larger-than-normal format to make its subjects grow in stature. The industry is diminished, left with its war against President Trump as journalists battle over whether an informant sent to spy on the Trump campaign is actually a “spy.” That is part of their larger anti-Trump crusade, but it’s also tied to how negatively the press is viewed generally. Tesla CEO and tech wunderkind Elon Musk provided a huge example of the anger at the media, tweeting: “Going to create a site where the public can rate the core truth of any article & track the credibility score over time of each journalist, editor & publication. Thinking of calling it Pravda.” Notice how the idea of one political party using the FBI to spy on another isn’t the constitutional crisis in the eyes of the media. Reporters skewered Musk. The Washington Post called out his “meltdown” and Politico dubbed him “a Media Assassin.” Verge Senior Transportation Reporter Andrew J. Hawkins used journalism’s ultimate criticism, saying Musk “continues his slow transformation into a media-baiting Trump figure screaming irrationally about fake news.” But 88 percent of those who voted in Musk’s Twitter poll supported his Yelp for news media. The press still has a large number of opportunities to defend itself. The new documentary series “The Fourth Estate” on Showtime chronicles 16 months at The New York Times. By the tone of the trailer, the series is a wonky version of a WWE smackdown – The Gray Lady vs. The Donald. Sadly, even the paper’s own reviewer called it “reasonably competent, but it’s also superficial and oblivious a little more often than one might like.” There’s a metaphor in there somewhere. Or just save yourself time and watch this hilarious Seth Meyers skit about “The Post” called “Newspaper Movie” that makes fun of the term “the fourth estate.” Journalists get no respect, especially from the president. They were furious over “60 Minutes” Correspondent Lesley Stahl’s claim that President Trump deliberately tries to “discredit” and “demean” the press “so when you write negative stories about me, no one will believe you.” President Trump’s purported comment was attacked all across media – broadcast networks, cable, top newspapers and left-wing outlets. MSNBC host and former NBC anchor Brian Williams was clearly worried about the comment’s impact on the Mueller investigation. Williams asked, “are they likely to react to a remark like that?” And this is a man who knows all about how to “demean” and “discredit” his profession. CNN’s Senior Media Correspondent Brian Stelter was equally concerned, saying people should feel “insulted” by President Trump’s action. Stelter then attacked the president’s alleged assault on the press … by attacking the press, specifically “60 Minutes.” So the media solution to fan complaints that the NFL doesn’t respect our nation is … for the NFL to not respect our nation. Gotcha. Stelter’s “cynical” theory was that “60 Minutes” delayed the story because it “thought Trump would agree to an interview last fall. I think now it’s 18 months, they’ve given up.” He left out that such a long time raises big questions about the agenda behind Stahl’s timing. The media overreaction to this “revelation” is typical. Journalists act surprised when politicians on the right criticize the press, though they do it all the time. Because the press is biased against them. Even funnier was the part of the interview that didn’t get much attention. Stahl noted that “Democrats think that reporters are on their side” and “expect reporters to be kind to them and gentle.” Kudos to Stahl for at least admitting that “they assume we’re liberals and we’re going to be on their side.” Now try finding the media addressing that part of her interview. 2. Depends on What the Definition of ‘Spy’ Is: The media are in an uproar because President Trump called the “informant” investigating his campaign a “spy.” The Times led with this classically parsed headline: “F.B.I. Used Informant to Investigate Russia Ties to Campaign, Not to Spy, as Trump Claims.” The Times didn’t name him, stating it “typically does not name informants to preserve their safety.” That was May 18. Four days later, Professor Stefan Halper was a headline in The Washington Post as the informant. “Spygate” was suddenly the news and journalists even resented that. The Associated Press reported that President Trump used the term to “raise suspicions about the probe that has dogged his presidency since the start.” The press grew obsessed with the “S” word, even though former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper admitted “they were spying” on Russians and their potential ties to the Trump campaign. CNN warned of President Trump’s “paranoia.” The president’s call for an investigation prompted NBC White House Correspondent Kristen Welker to ask : “Is the president threatening the longstanding independence of the Justice Department?” NBC’s “Meet the Press” Moderator Chuck Todd termed it a “constitutional crisis” and wondered: “Are the president's systemic attacks on the Justice Department undermining the rule of law as we know it?” Notice how the idea of one political party using the FBI to spy on another isn’t the constitutional crisis in the eyes of the media. MSNBC guest and former Deputy Assistant Attorney General Harry Litman said President Trump’s criticisms were akin to the Nazi bombing of London during The Blitz. “Look, the Justice Department is under a shelling from the White House. It’s like London 1941 there,” he argued. Even the AP Fact Check of President Trump’s comments on the investigation wasn’t able to handle reality. AP objected to Trump’s factual statement that “The Witch Hunt finds no Collusion with Russia.” The Fact Check argued that “there has been no definitive resolution as to whether the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia in the 2016 election.” Somehow AP didn’t grasp that, until proven otherwise, Trump is correct to say that there is “no collusion.” 3. NFL Takes a Stand on Kneeling: The NFL is still trying to figure out the right play to defeat President Trump on the issue of players kneeling during the national anthem. The league is now saying it will levy fines on teams if players kneel, but it will also allow players to stay in locker rooms to avoid the anthem entirely. The media were naturally opposed to the new rule. SB Nation called it “a laughably terrible idea.” USA Today Sports’ Dave Birkett said showing respect for the anthem “smells of a military state.” New York Times National Security and Legal Reporter Charlie Savage argued that the “long-term solution to this is just to depoliticize the games entirely.” So the media solution to fan complaints that the NFL doesn’t respect our nation is … for the NFL to not respect our nation. Gotcha. MSNBC went out of its way to push the anti-kneeling agenda. “Hardball” host Chris Matthews turned to ex-NFL wide receiver Donte Stallworth. He’s a former 9-11 truther and served all of 30 days for killing a man while driving drunk. Great guy to support a protest of the national anthem. Stallworth called it the “height of hypocrisy” for people to not support the protest, perhaps forgetting that his critics also have free speech rights. Law & Crime Network Host Amy Dash even claimed that “this is all feeding Kaep's (Colin Kaepernick’s) attorneys with golden evidence of an improper influence by the WH on NFL and its owners to support collusion case.” Because presidents never use the bully pulpit to express their feelings on news. Of course, many in the media also predictably freaked out when President Trump said of the protesting players: “Maybe they shouldn’t be in the country.” Stephen Espinoza, the president of Showtime Sports, responded: “That doesn’t sound dictatorial at all.” They still don’t grasp that he’s trolling them.
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Walker says he backs some budget changes to win votes as Assembly takes up plan Gov. Scott Walker Wednesday backed at least some budget changes to win over conservative holdouts in the state Senate and pass the state’s already delayed spending plan. “I’m still confident we’ll have a budget by the end of the summer that will … balance the interests of investing more dollars in K-12 education than ever before and lowering property taxes,” Walker told reporters in a conference call from a trade mission to South Korea. But at least four conservatives in the state Senate are holding up a budget vote in part because of their concerns about spending increases in the bill for priorities like education. To get the budget back on track, Walker endorsed the idea of agreeing to at least some other conservative demands, such as moving up the repeal date of a minimum wage for workers on state infrastructure projects. Wisconsin State Journal: Foxconn $3 billion incentive deal edges closer to reality with state Senate passage Capital Times: Political activist Mike McCabe set to launch campaign for Wisconsin governor
LAS VEGAS — Alex Tuch collected the skittering puck with absolutely nothing between him and the tying goal with two minutes left in Game 2 of the Stanley Cup Final. Braden Holtby reacted with pure instinct. Washington’s goalie stretched back and lunged to his right with his stick, thrusting the paddle into the exact 4-inch slot of air through which Tuch’s shot was headed for the net. “Luckily it hit me,” Holtby said with a shrug. The Washington goalie’s coaches and teammates weren’t quite so calm about a save that will go down in Capitals history as the key to a 3-2 victory over the Vegas Golden Knights on Wednesday night, evening the series at one game apiece. The win was the Caps’ first-ever Stanley Cup Final victory — and the save might be a catalyst to even bigger things. “To me, it was the hockey gods,” Washington coach Barry Trotz said. “They evened it up from the last game. Great save. You could see the emotion on our bench. Once he made that save, I knew we were going to win the game.” Holtby made 37 saves, but he got help from earthly sources as well. Alex Ovechkin scored a power-play goal, his first in a Final, Brooks Orpik ended a personal 220-game goal drought with the eventual winner, and Lars Eller added a goal and two assists. “We refocus and pick each other up and that’s a sign of a good team,” Holtby said. “That’s one of our strengths.” Game 3 is Saturday night in Washington. The Caps are just 4-5 at home in the postseason, but they’ll ride a wave of momentum after going into the Golden Knights’ daunting home arena and taking away home-ice advantage in Washington’s first Stanley Cup Final in 20 years. After getting battered in the Knights’ 6-4 series-opening win, Holtby made several big saves throughout Game 2, coming up particularly big while Washington killed a 5-on-3 disadvantage for 1:09 earlier in the third period. He capped his energetic performance with that jaw-dropping stick save on Tuch with 1:59 to play. “Holts just makes the save of the year,” Washington forward Jay Beagle said. “Maybe the save of a lifetime. It’s unreal.” The T-Mobile Arena crowd was stunned, but after several months of watching this expansion team push through every obstacle, the Knights couldn’t get around Holtby’s stick. “Thank God he’s our goalie,” Ovechkin said. “He’s over there when we need him, and it was probably the save of the year for sure.” Washington overcame another big blow when it lost leading scorer Evgeny Kuznetsov to an upper-body injury in the first period after a big hit from Vegas defenseman Brayden McNabb, but the Caps avoided any hotheaded retaliation and concentrated on a gritty effort that was enough to even the series. James Neal and Shea Theodore scored and Marc-Andre Fleury stopped 23 shots for the upstart Knights, who couldn’t summon their usual clutch magic, even with lengthy man advantages. Thanks to Holtby’s 15 saves, Vegas finally went scoreless in the third for the first time in six periods in this series. Washington handed the Golden Knights only their second home defeat — the first in regulation — in Vegas’ nine postseason games. “I think it’s really important that we take a step back and take a deep breath and know that you’re not going to win this series in two games,” Vegas defenseman Nate Schmidt said. “We’re a special group. We can go out and win games on the road. We’ve done it all playoffs.” So have the Capitals, who improved to 9-3 on the road after two games in this frequently chaotic series. The Caps have made the playoffs in 13 of 19 seasons since their only other trip to the Final in 1998, but hadn’t managed to get their fans back to the final round until this year. Capital One Arena in downtown Washington was packed with red-clad fans watching Game 2 on the videoboards. The temperature on the Las Vegas Strip spiked to triple digits in the hours before Game 2, likely making it the hottest Final game in NHL history. But the heat didn’t fry the spirits of the fans who filled the plaza next to the arena to capacity before the puck dropped, continuing this gambling mecca’s fanatical support of its first major pro sports team. Shortly after Neal opened the scoring for Vegas in Game 2, Kuznetsov went straight to the dressing room after absorbing a high check from McNabb. The game immediately took on a nastier tone, and the teams played 4-on-4 hockey moments later after a prolonged scrum led to two penalties. Trotz gave no postgame update on Kuznetsov’s condition. “(That hit) galvanized us as a group,” Trotz said. “This group has learned so much. They’ve gotten so resilient. This group has had everything thrown at them, and they just say, `You know what? We’re going to push on.” Washington attacked and evened it shortly afterward with a goal from Eller, who had failed to hit an open net on a rushed play for a potential tying goal late in Game 1. Washington’s excellent power play finally got a chance early in the second period, and Ovechkin scored a vintage goal with his powerful shot from a sharp angle. The Russian superstar led the NHL with 49 goals in the regular season and added 12 more in the Eastern Conference playoffs before scoring the first Stanley Cup Final goal of his 13-year, 1,121-game NHL career. The Caps then got a thoroughly unlikely contribution from Orpik, whose deflected shot bounced fortuitously off the ice and beat Fleury. The grinding veteran forward with a 2009 Stanley Cup ring from Pittsburgh hadn’t scored since Feb. 26, 2016, adding up to the longest active goal-scoring drought in the NHL. The persistent Knights earned a power play and cut the Caps’ lead to 3-2 late in the second on Theodore’s shot through traffic.
President Donald Trump urged Congress to pass "Right to Try" for terminally ill patients during his State of the Union address, and on May 30 he signed the bill into law. The act, sponsored by Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., cleared the Senate in August 2017 and passed in the House in late May with a 250-169 vote. "Patients with terminal conditions should have access to experimental treatments that could potentially save their lives," Trump said back in January. "It is time for the Congress to give these wonderful Americans the 'Right to Try.'" Trump's signature on the bill is seen as a victory for the administration. "Today I am proud to keep another promise to the American people as I sign the right to try legislation into law," Trump said on May 30. "I called on congress to pass Right to Try—such a great name—some bills they don’t have a great name—this one...And a lot of that trying is going to be successful. I really believe that. We did it." The "Right to Try" bill allows terminally ill patients to request access to experimental medicines that have passed Phase 1 of the Food and Drug Administration approval process. It authorizes patients diagnosed with life-ending illnesses to use unapproved medications — so long as they have undergone early testing on humans and are under continual evaluation. Patients also would have to have tried other treatment options. 'RIGHT TO TRY' BILL HEADS TO TRUMP'S DESK AFTER HOUSE OK In August, the Senate passed the bill by unanimous consent. “The Senate took a strong stand in support of the millions of Americans and their families suffering from terminal illness,” Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., said in a statement following the vote. “Patients with terminal diseases ought to have a right to access treatments that have demonstrated a level of safety and could potentially save their lives.” "Right to Try" laws were already enacted in 40 states by the time the bill was passed, according to righttotry.org. Supporters called for federal legislation. "FDA regulations cannot preempt state laws that preserve constitutionally protected rights, such as the fundamental right to life and medical self-preservation," the website explained. "The United States Supreme Court has never addressed Right To Try specifically, but it has held that states have great latitude in regulating health and safety, including medical standards, which are primarily and historically a matter of local concern." Fox News' Brooke Singman contributed to this report.
MSNBC host Joy Reid once trumpeted an infamous, conspiratorial 9/11 film that labeled the terrorist attacks as an inside job, according to a report Wednesday. March, 2006, on her now-defunct blog ReidBlog, she encouraged followers to watch “Loose Change” — an 80-minute film produced in part by Infowars’ Alex Jones, BuzzFeed News reported. “Loose Change” is considered a seminal work among 9/11 truthers, who believe the US government had a role in the attacks. Its central claims have long been debunked. “The fundamental question is: do you believe the official story of 9/11?” according to Reid’s post. “If you do, great. If you don’t, then everything that happened after that is called into serious question. Even if you’re agnostic, or you tend to believe that al-Qaida attacked the World Trade Center and Pentagon and that the government had no warning such a thing could happen, it’s worth taking a second look.” see also Joy Reid under fire for bizarre explanation about hateful posts MSNBC star Joy Reid raised eyebrows Monday when she claimed... Reid and MSNBC could not be reached for comment. Reid came under fire late last year when old blog posts showed her making a string of insensitive LBGT remarks. She mocked then-Florida Gov. Charlie Crist as “Miss Charlie” and attacked Fox News Channel commentator Ann Coulter with transgender stereotypes. Reid first said she had been hacked, but then later apologized. The host of MSNBC’s “AM Joy” has come under increased scrutiny since Tuesday, when ABC abruptly cancelled Roseanne Barr’s hit sitcom after she made a string of racist, anti-Semitic tweets.
Republicans are lining up to urge the U.S. Supreme Court to rein in the Wisconsin GOP’s abuse of the map-drawing process. But a famous California Republican says blue states are just as guilty of map-rigging as their red-state counterparts. The partisan mapping practice in Wisconsin was struck down by lower courts in the case Gill v. Whitford. The lower court said the state GOP manipulated the legislative maps to gain a majority. Now, a group of high-profile Republicans is urging the Supreme Court to uphold the lower court’s ruling. The list of Republicans that signed a “friend-of-the-court” brief is long. It includes presidential candidates Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, Sens. Bob Dole of Kansas and John McCain of Arizona, and former California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. The former body builder and action movie star said Wednesday that abuse of the map-drawing process, such as what happened in Wisconsin, has kept competition out of politics for years. “With no need for competition, the seats are fixed and they don’t really need to perform,” Schwarzenegger said, adding that lawmakers vote much more ideologically when the only competition incumbents may receive is from a primary challenge. But blue states are just as guilty of adjusting the political maps to leverage their hold on the majority in their respective legislatures, Schwarzenegger said. “When Democrats have the power, they gerrymander like in Maryland or Illinois,” he said. Two independent efforts to change how Illinois redraws its maps after new U.S. Census data is released every 10 years have been ruled unconstitutional by state judges. Gerrymandered districts drawn by Democrat House Speaker Michael Madigan often are blamed for the lack of competitive General Assembly races. For example, Just 46 of the 118 Illinois House races on the November 2016 ballot were contested. Of those, only a few were competitive. Plaintiffs lawyers say that there would likely be a challenge in Illinois should the court rule in their favor in the Wisconsin case. Former Illinois Gov. Jim Edgar and Lt. Governor Corinne Wood also signed on in support of the brief. The court is scheduled to hear the case in October. The full brief can be read here.
Jeff Goldblum is set to record his first jazz album after having signed up with Decca Records Label Group, Decca announced Wednesday. The actor’s jazz piano skills caught the attention of Decca executives after he accompanied soul-jazz singer Gregory Porter on a rendition of Nat King Cole’s “Mona Lisa” on BBC talk show “The Graham Norton Show” last October while promoting “Thor: Ragnarok.” “I’m so happy to be in cahoots with the wonderful people at Decca, one of the coolest and most prestigious labels of all time,” Goldblum said. The actor, known around the world for his iconic roles in films including “The Fly,” “Jurassic Park” and “Independence Day,” has played piano since childhood. He regularly plays with his jazz band, The Mildred Snitzer Orchestra, around LA and at the Café Carlyle in New York. Goldblum also hosts a weekly jazz variety show at LA’s Rockwell Table and Stage when not away on location. Tom Lewis, director of A&R for Decca, said he believed bringing Goldblum’s music to a wider audience would “be helping, in our own small way, to make the world a happier place.” “We are delighted to welcome him to Decca,” Lewis said. “He’s a fantastic jazz pianist, a great band leader and just about the loveliest man in the world. His love of jazz is infectious and whenever he plays he makes you feel very happy.” Further details on the debut album are yet to be announced. Goldblum is currently promoting the upcoming “Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom” around the world ahead of its international launch next week, including another appearance on “The Graham Norton Show” in Britain last Friday. Goldblum reprises his fan-favorite character Ian Malcolm in the blockbuster franchise, which he last played in 1997’s “The Lost World: Jurassic Park.” Goldblum recently voiced the character of Duke in regular collaborator Wes Anderson’s stop-motion animation “Isle of Dogs,” which is continuing its global rollout. Other upcoming films include Drew Pearce’s “Hotel Artemis,” which opens in the US on June 8, and Rick Alverson’s “The Mountain,” which is in post-production.
MSNBC is remaining stone silent as as old blog posts that seem to fly in the face of star Joy Reid’s alleged progressive values continue to pile up, one after another. Two more damaging entries were unearthed on Wednesday, as BuzzFeed and Fox News’ “Tucker Carlson Tonight” each revealed content that contradicts Reid's emergence as a hero of the liberal #Resistance movement. BuzzFeed reported that Reid once encouraged her readers to check out “Loose Change,” a documentary on a conspiracy theory that alleges the tragic attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 were planned by the United States government. The widely debunked film was co-produced by Info Wars’ Alex Jones. “Even if you're agnostic, or you tend to believe that al-Qaida attacked the World Trade Center and Pentagon and that the government had no warning such a thing could happen, it's worth taking a second look,” Reid’s blog said of the documentary. Shortly after the BuzzFeed bombshell was published, “Tucker Carlson Tonight” revealed that Reid used to tout “American First” immigration policies. Carlson revealed that Reid’s blog argued that, among other things, native-born Americans, not “low-paid Mexican workers” should rebuild New Orleans, agreed with Lou Dobbs on immigration, and even criticized flying the Mexican flag on U.S. soil. BuzzFeed and “Tucker Carlson Tonight” both noted that MSNBC didn’t bother to respond to a request for comment. MSNBC did not respond to a request for comment for this report and has not responded to numerous emails regarding Reid. NBCUniversal and parent company Comcast did not immediately respond to a series of questions, including whether or not the company investigated Reid’s hacker claims and why MSNBC is ignoring reporters who ask about the blog. BuzzFeed’s Joe Bernstein tweeted, “Neither @MSNBC nor @JoyAnnReid responded to requests for comment, so we don't know whether Reid would attribute these old posts about 9/11 being an inside job to her hacker.” Bernstein followed up, noting that it’s “crazy and downright irresponsible” that MSNBC won’t address Reid’s old blog. In the past, Reid has blamed homophobic slurs and other blog posts that don’t coincide with her current image on diabolical hackers, even going so far as to report a hacking “crime” to the FBI. Last month, she admitted the old slurs did not appear to be the result of hacking and apologized for comments she claimed not to remember making, as MSNBC stayed mum. Silence is nothing new for NBC News, as its chairman Andy Lack is reportedly in hot water with Comcast honchos over the negative attention he has brought to the once-proud unit. Lack has not commented publically on a variety of scandals, including why he refused to hire an outside investigator to determine who knew about disgraced anchor Matt Lauer’s sexual misconduct. Lack insisted on keeping the review in-house, and his NBCUniversal peers eventually deemed NBC News management completely oblivious to Lauer’s behavior. NBC News has also stayed mostly quiet regarding why its didn’t publish Ronan Farrow’s reporting on Harvey Weinstein that went on to win a Pulitzer Prize and help launch the #MeToo movement. TV news blogger Scott Jones asked on Wednesday if it’s finally “time for MSNBC to pull the plug” on Reid. “Maybe, it's time [for] MSNBC to wake up and realize that Joy Reed is not the person she is playing on TV,” Jones added. Fox News senior judicial analyst Judge Andrew Napolitano said the MSNBC host “could be in very serious trouble” if she made up the story about hackers planting the anti-gay blog posts resulting in an FBI investigation. Reid could even be charged with obstruction of justice for “diverting the FBI’s attention from real crimefighting to fighting a phantom crime,” Napolitano said. MSNBC has not punished Reid and even allowed her to co-host a primetime town hall event on racism earlier this week. The network was scolded for being tone deaf when it brought Reid to discuss a racist tweet that Roseanne Barr recently sent about former Obama aide Valerie Jarrett. Seemingly unaware of the irony, Andrea Mitchell asked, "What do you have to do on social media to get fired from a top rated show on an American broadcast network?" It’s been a rough six months for Reid, as comments dug up by a Twitter user and published by Mediaite in December showed that she wrote numerous offensive jokes and comments several years ago about gay people on her old blog, “The Reid Report.” Initially, Reid apologized profusely for offensive comments she made roughly a decade ago suggesting that Florida Governor Charlie Crist (“Miss Charlie,” as she called him) may be gay, despite no evidence to back up her contention. When a new raft of offensive comments surfaced ‒ about some lesbians' short haircuts and her objections to seeing men kiss men, among other homophobic remarks ‒ Reid originally claimed she’d been hacked, and MSNBC circulated a much-panned statement from a computer hacking “expert” which sought to make that case. Reid’s old blog also took shots at her current colleague Rachel Maddow, who is MSNBC’s biggest star and cash cow. In April, Reid got emotional on the air when her hacking claim fell apart and admitted it seemed unlikely she was hacked, but claimed that she didn’t recall making the offensive remarks, for which she apologized anyway. “I genuinely do not believe I wrote those hateful things,” Reid told her viewers, adding, "The person I am now is not the person I was then." The left has started to turn on Reid, as several mainstream reporters have criticized MSNBC over the situation and questioned the network’s silence. Outspoken liberal actress Susan Sarandon recently tweeted a HuffPost article headlined, “Joy Reid’s Defenders Praise Her Apology — But Ignore Her Apparent Cover-Up." “The bizarre allegations have raised questions about Reid’s honesty and integrity,” Washington Post media reporter Paul Farhi wrote on Wednesday. Reid’s personal attorney did not respond to a request for comment. “Tucker Carlson Tonight” producer Alex Pfeiffer contributed to this report.
It has to hurt by now. I mean it really has to hurt. CNN’s Jim Acosta once again got wrecked for saying that Kim Kardashian more or less had no business being at the White House to talk prison reform. It’s just un-serious, according to Jim. Of course, this is a swipe at the Trump administration for catering to celebrities. Earth to CNN: history didn’t begin in January of 2017. President Barack Obama catered the Hollywood Left. From violence in Sudan to climate change, there was some A-list actor speaking with Obama about these issues. And there are oodles of photographic proof to prove this. .@acosta going off just now on @KimKardashian being at the White House: "She shouldn't be here talking about prison reform." pic.twitter.com/5i1ZsXl3jh — David Rutz (@DavidRutz) May 30, 2018 This is especially weird given how @Acosta didn't question all the times Obama teamed up with celebrities for various causes. https://t.co/owKvuB5Eqk — Andrew Kugle (@AndrewJKugle) May 30, 2018 Strange to see reporters criticizing Trump for inviting @KimKardashian to the WH to talk prison reform. Yes, an expert would have been better. But let’s not forget Obama’s mtg w/ George Clooney on ethnic violence in Sudan... or Leo DiCaprio on climate change... — Gabby Morrongiello (@gabriellahope_) May 30, 2018 One of his most epic self-owns. https://t.co/zgpgcXLwXa — Guy Benson (@guypbenson) May 31, 2018 Kardashian met with Trump’s senior aide Jared Kushner about commuting the drug sentence of Alice Marie Johnson; Obama refused to commute her life sentence. She has been behind bars for over two decades. This isn’t the first time Acosta has been called out for his nonsense. Stephen Miller took him to the woodshed, a senior adviser to the president, concerning immigration changes the Trump administration proposed. Sarah Sanders has also delivered plenty of smack downsto Jim and his employer. The best had to be President Trump straight up telling Acosta to “get out” of the Oval Office. This was after the infamous “s**thole countries” remark that triggered the entire liberal news media establishment. Okay now @Acosta, show us your previous objection to any of those instances. Thanks. — Stephen Miller (@redsteeze) May 30, 2018 It’s not hard as to why the president does these sorts of meetings. It’s to get Jim to act like he does—and not just him, any member of the liberal news media who does not yet understand that Trump is a) making fun of you; and b) using you as his puppet. He’s far better at this than you. And when you’re this stupid and dumb, Trump, or anyone for that matter, can make the media do anything. For CNN, they fall into this trap constantly. I would like to thank President Trump for his time this afternoon. It is our hope that the President will grant clemency to Ms. Alice Marie Johnson who is serving a life sentence for a first-time, non-violent drug offense. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 31, 2018
MSNBC anchor Joy Reid spread 9/11 conspiracy theories on her old blog, reports the far-left BuzzFeed. On March 22, 2006, at her now defunct blog, in a post titled “The Official Story,” Reid published a link to a 80-minute video that blames the American government for planning the September 11, 2001, terror attacks in New York and at the Pentagon. The title of the video is Loose Change 9/11, which BuzzFeed describes as a “viral 80-minute web video originally released in 2005. Loose Change, which was produced in part by Infowars’ Alex Jones, alleged that the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center were in fact planned by the US government.” Reid’s post says: The fundamental question is: do you believe the official story of 9/11? If you do, great. If you don’t, then everything that happened after that is called into serious question. Even if you’re agnostic, or you tend to believe that al-Qaida attacked the World Trade Center and Pentagon and that the government had no warning such a thing could happen, it’s worth taking a second look. In a post published in March of 2006, titled “Flashback: September 30, 2001,” Reid revisited the conspiracy, asking: For that matter, why did any of the WT[C] buildings fall…? Somehow I think it will be a generation before we get the full story on what happened on 9/11? BuzzFeed reached out to Reid and to MSNBC. Neither has responded. The left-wing Reid’s decade-old rantings at her former blog have been a continuing source of embarrassment for Reid and NBC News. Reid has been exposed, not only as a serial homophobe who cheered on the idea of killing conservative author and columnist Ann Coulter, but Reid did so as a grown woman in her mid-to-late thirties who was already a political columnist at the Miami Herald. Moreover, just a few months ago, Reid straight-up lied to the entire world with a fabricated a conspiracy blaming her homophobic posts on a non-existent hacker. There are reports she even got the FBI involved, and lying to the FBI, filing a false report, is supposed to be a crime. Nevertheless, NBC News still employs Reid as a weekend anchor and even tapped the shameless liar and gay-baiter to co-host a high-profile town hall on bigotry. Reid, however, fits right in at a NBC that also employs homophobe Alec Baldwin, rape-denier Andrea Mitchell, abuse-enabler Mika Brzezinski, serial liar Brian Williams, accused stalker/groper Mike Tirico, and accused harassers Chris Matthews, and Tom Brokaw. Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.
During the so-called McCarthy era, a single question cut across all partisan and philosophical lines: Were you on Sen. Joe McCarthy's side or not? McCarthy's conspiratorial, bullying, blunderbuss anti-communism and "red-baiting" was either defensible or it wasn't. Remarkably, for many on the right, the question of whether you were "with" McCarthy almost completely crowded out the question of whether or not you were right wing or left wing, Democrat or Republican, or even where you stood on the question of communism itself. The pressing issue was whether McCarthy went too far in his accusations of vast communist conspiracies within the government and other insinuations of treason on a mass scale. The Trump era is very different than the McCarthy era in many important ways. Chief among them: In the 1950s, communism was on the march -- across borders in Europe and through the institutions of government and academia here at home. Say what you will about communism (starting with its murderous barbarity) it was a large cause, worthy of the passion it invited. In the Trump era, the passions are large, but the cause seems terribly small by comparison. Faith in conspiracies and the people who peddle them are once again a major dividing line, but the conspiracies themselves lend themselves to the conclusion that history is repeating itself as farce. We are told that the Deep State is yet another vast conspiracy lurking like a fifth column within the highest reaches of the government, dedicated to ... something. Not to a foreign power. Not to some large cause. But to itself. The president insists the Deep State unleashed "spies" to infiltrate his campaign in order to ... fill-in-the-blank. If the answer is to derail the Trump campaign, the Deep State failed abysmally, causing far more damage to the president's opponent. The "spy" in question was a man who had a couple conversations with men -- Carter Page and George Papadopoulos -- who expressed an eagerness to work with a foreign power, Russia. A year ago, the Trump administration insisted, quite persuasively, that these would-be Russian stooges were little better than coffee boys and hangers-on. Now, to advance the narrative of Deep State penetration they amount to the heart of the Trump campaign. It is entirely plausible that the FBI cut too many corners in its investigations into Page, Papadopoulos and others in Trump's orbit. But that concession is not enough for the president and his partisans. One must subscribe to the idea that there is a vast and pernicious Hydra-like entity lurking within the government to tear down the president. Like the ugly American who thinks if he just shouts louder the foreigner will understand English, they insist the threat is unprecedented in American history. One of the president's most loyal idolaters, Sebastian Gorka, insists that the possibly inappropriate use of a FISA warrant to investigate Page and Papadopoulos is "100 times worse" than the crimes of the British crown that warranted the American Revolution. The McCarthy era had similar exaggerations, but they were built on a far more solid foundation. There were indeed figurative witch hunts back then, but there were also witches -- witches who gave the Soviet Union nuclear secrets and warlocks who swore allegiance to a foreign power and the cause of overthrowing the U.S. government. Today the larger cause is simply Donald Trump, a victim-saint-martyr in need of a large cause arrayed against him to justify his excesses. Thus the Deep State is like the pig's head-Beelzebub in "The Lord of the Flies," a demon conjured to justify opposition to it. It's like the McCarthy era in a timeline where there was no communist threat to support it. For his supporters, to question McCarthy's claims of vast conspiracies was an expression of disloyalty to the cause of anti-communism and tantamount to a confession of treason. To question Trump's theories of the Deep State is simply a form of disloyalty to Trump and, for some, that snuffs out all other meaningful distinctions. So now according to many Trump water-carriers, Rep. Trey Gowdy -- an impeccable conservative -- is not just a Democrat in Republican mufti but an accomplice of the Deep State, all because he defended the FBI's investigation of Page and Papadopoulos. The "McCarthy era" was pretty short for an era, lasting four years, if that. But that's the thing about eras -- they don't have a precise definition. We use the term to describe periods of time that feel at odds with what came before them and, one hopes, what comes after.
1:19 Some people are spending $1,300 on these creepy dolls Asia Eriksen turned her obsession with horror into big bucks when she created a creepy line of dolls she calls Werepups. According to Eriksen, each doll can take over a month to create and sometimes includes real human hair. 1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue. 0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries. 1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action. 1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time. 0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary. 1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims. 0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident. 0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals.
The large group of teens had been wandering downtown and along the lake Sunday evening, but police decided it was time for the group to leave. The teens, numbering more than 100 and some deemed "borderline criminal" by police, were first steered onto Red Line trains that ran express from the Gold Coast to the South Side. Then they were chased from 31st Street Beach and began running through traffic on King Drive. As the teens approached 38th Street, eight or 10 of them knocked a 15-year-old boy to the ground. “I didn’t do nothing,” the boy protested, guarding his head with his arms as a teen stood over him and swung left-right, left-right while others kicked his ribs and back, an attack witnessed by a Tribune reporter. They kicked his face, they stomped his head. They emptied his pockets, they took his shoes. Finally a police lieutenant pulled up and stood over the boy while waiting for help. Chicago police spent much of Memorial Day weekend tracking and chasing groups of teens through downtown for what often began as “borderline criminal behavior” and sometimes ended in vandalism and fights. Officers shut down beaches and parks early, and "directed" large groups of teens toward trains and buses. The holiday weekend trained a spotlight on the Police Department’s delicate strategy of keeping the peace downtown and along the lakefront — areas heavily trafficked by tourists — without resorting to more arrests or heavy-handed tactics. “I know there were some questions about us forcing people to get on CTA buses and what I can tell you is this: We didn't force anybody," Chicago police Superintendent Eddie Johnson said Tuesday. "We directed people to different stops — it’s simply a public safety issue." But Edwin Yohnka, spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois, said reports of police funneling groups en masse to express trains were “incredibly troubling.” “Who made that decision?” he said. “How were decisions made about who was going to be put on that train?” Holiday weekends are traditionally more violent than other weekends in the summer, and the Police Department in recent years has turned to using overtime and canceling days off to put more officers on the street. This year, 1,300 more officers than usual were deployed. Many of them were assigned downtown or detailed there from areas as far away as Morgan Park and Albany Park once supervisors realized they needed help. Officers descended on beaches and parks south of Fullerton Avenue, the downtown area that includes North Michigan Avenue and the South Loop. On the evening of May 27, 2018, downtown radio traffic indicated that teens in large groups were fighting in and around downtown. (E. Jason Wambsgans/Chicago Tribune) (E. Jason Wambsgans/Chicago Tribune) All four nights of the holiday weekend, these extra patrols kept track of groups of teens as they arrived downtown on the Red Line and made their way to beaches and parks. Some lingered around Michigan Avenue or near CTA stations. The groups ranged in size from a few dozen to more than a hundred. “They came down here specifically to cause problems,” Deputy Chief Al Nagode said. “They were running in and out of traffic, they were confronting different groups, they were running into businesses doing different activities that were borderline criminal, mostly nuisance, so the officers have to work that fine line of, do we (go) out there to arrest somebody.” In one instance, teens damaged property at a Target store at Roosevelt Road and Clark Street, police said. There were reports of gunfire near the Bottled Blonde bar on Wells Street late Saturday, near LaSalle Drive and Ontario Street early Sunday and at Chicago Avenue and Lake Shore Drive early Monday. That night, officers reported people running from the sound of gunfire as crowds left North Avenue Beach. “A lot of it is the nuisance that they’re doing. It’s part of what we get with teens,” Nagode said. “The resources it would take me to lock up 100 kids who were fighting would be tremendous, so we have to mitigate, stop the problem and do what’s necessary to make (everyone) safe." Several teens were arrested downtown on misdemeanor reckless conduct and disorderly conduct offenses. But for the most part, police attempted to disperse the crowds. Once orders were given to start clearing beaches and parks, officers directed the teens toward buses and train stations. They mostly complied as officers opened gates and moved people through. “We're just not randomly picking an ‘L’ stop and getting them out of there, we’re affording them an opportunity to leave the area," Nagode said. "And once they realize a lot of times they will be placed under arrest if it rises to that level, a lot of people will thankfully take that option and get out of there.” Such tactics are preferable to making mass arrests but they still raise red flags, particularly because the teens involved were all black, said Craig Futterman, a University of Chicago law professor who works on civil rights and police accountability issues. “I don’t know what ‘borderline criminal’ means. It is or it isn’t.” The police strategy may make sense in isolation, but against the backdrop of the city’s long history of discriminatory police tactics, it becomes troubling, he said. “(Police should not) pick on or single out groups on the basis of race for selective treatment or discriminatory treatment. That’s a problem.” On Sunday night, the crowds were broken up after fights broke out near the Red Line station at Chicago Avenue, long a trouble spot. "All they wanna do is act stupid. Puts more pressure on citizens, more pressure on police, more pressure on the CTA," said Rosanna Wallace, a 49-year-old retired bus driver who lives near Chicago Avenue and State Street. "My mother never would allow us down here without them." Wallace said most weekends downtown there are large groups — usually between 100 and 200 kids — who go back and forth from the lakefront to the McDonald's at Chicago and State. The shopping center at Water Tower has had to close early because of groups running through the mall and using other entrances after being kicked out by police and security. "It's chaos," Wallace said. "This atmosphere, it doesn't make sense. They come out of their neighborhoods, 'cause they have nothing to do, to make havoc here. They're disrespectful. They'll cuss at you in a minute ... acting like they have no damn home training." A Tribune photographer and reporter tracked a teenage crowd that was steered onto southbound trains from downtown Sunday evening. The teens exited at 35th Street and tried to make their way east toward the lake, only to be met by more cops. Police closed 31st Street Beach and used bike patrols to shut down the pedestrian bridge at 35th Street around 9 p.m.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. The earth-shattering story that the MSM has attempted in all regards to ignore that then-existing Administration was spying on a presidential campaign broke a couple weeks ago and the spy has now been identified. The logical end question has now been asked -- Did President Obama know that his spying agencies had infiltrated the Trump campaign? The unequivocal answer is YES. Do I have definitive proof that Obama knew? No. And we never will because Valerie Jarrett kept him away from the parties at hand. But I base my conclusion on 40 years of doing this and eight years of studying the Obama Administration and their disregard for the norms that had been established before them due to their thirst to thrust their ideological platform on the American people. There are four principle reasons why the Obama team thought they could get away with spying on Trump: The fawning press would never question them. They had gone through more than eight years of the press tripping over each other lauding their actions, so why would the press question them now? Their prior actions (which are delineated below) went by with meager questioning and virtually no accusations of impropriety. They assumed Hillary was going to win and thus the improper actions would never be reviewed. They had to go to Plan B on this once she lost and accuse Trump and his people of gross negligence and then their spying on Trump would be buried in the hysteria regarding Russian Collusion. The biggest, boldest reason was the Black Card. The Obama Administration had used this so many times it became de rigueur. The whimpering press would never question the Black President, the Black Attorney General nor the Black White House Adviser because of their white guilt. This is a form of reverse racism. If you did question them you would automatically be branded a racist. In fact, me just pointing this out opens me up to being branded by the Obama acolytes as a racist. By the time 2016 came around, Obama was already emboldened by the factors above and they had tested it on: The IRS/Tea Party scandal. Benghazi where four Americans were killed, and no one was ever held accountable despite the lies. The Veteran’s Administration Scandal where our soldiers died with no responsibility. Fast and Furious where Obama/Holder gave guns to Mexican gangs. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that was established as separately funded from Congress and then went off and did illegal activities such as pursuing car dealer loans despite being specifically precluded from that. Bill Clinton meeting on the tarmac with Attorney General Lynch that was clearly improper over which someone should have resigned. The fact that the number two person at the FBI could not figure out that his wife taking $700,000 from a high-level Democratic operative was the definition of conflict of interest. More and More and More. When did the press ever bring these people to task? Eric Holder was held in contempt of Congress and now he is thinking of running for president. President Obama stated there was “not a smidgen of corruption” with the IRS scandal, but if you asked all the people who were never able to form their entities they might think differently. On the way out the door, Valerie Jarrett stated about President Obama: “He prides himself on the fact that his administration hasn’t had a scandal and he hasn’t done something to embarrass himself.” When there are assertions like this that largely go undisputed by the press, you really wonder what planet everybody was on during these eight years. Yet Jake Tapper can question the current president as to his lies. Obama kept himself, on the face of it, insulated from any of the misdeeds of his administration, but does anyone believe he did not know Holder was illegally selling those guns in Fast and Furious? Yet, Holder did not resign. Does anyone believe Obama did not know Lynch was meeting Clinton on the tarmac? Yet she did not resign. There was virtually nothing the Obama team could say or do that got them in trouble for eight years. Obviously, they knew what was going on with the invasion of the Trump campaign. What is to question except for once again they will be let off the hook?
If you are in the mood for a high-priced cup of coffee that tastes burnt – you'll have to go somewhere other than Starbucks during a three-hour period Tuesday afternoon. More than 8,000 shops are shuttering for anti-bias training – an ill-conceived attempt to restore Starbucks’ tarnished liberal image. Last month, two black men were arrested in Philadelphia after they refused to leave one of the coffee chain’s stores and one was denied use of the restroom. The men, who said they were waiting for a friend, were sitting quietly but had not purchased so much as a latte. They were taking up space meant for paying customers. While police arrested the two men for trespassing, they were later released without charges and both the police and Starbucks apologized to them. For decades Starbucks has been using its stores to promote social justice, but now it's come back to bite 'em in the coffee bean. Starbucks had every right to ask those men to order a beverage or food or leave the shop. It’s a place of business, not a public park. Nevertheless, the social justice warriors pounced – accusing the folks who wear the green aprons of racial profiling and discrimination. Instead of standing its ground, Starbucks threw their baristas under the roaster and offered a profuse apology. “Regretfully, our practices and training led to a bad outcome – the basis for the call to the Philadelphia police department was wrong,” CEO Kevin Johnson wrote in a meandering mea culpa. “Our store manager never intended for these men to be arrested and this should never have escalated as it did.” Starbucks vowed to treat every customers with “respect and dignity” – even if they don’t purchase an expensive cup of their bitter java. Tuesday’s anti-bias training features appearances by company executives along with the rapper named Common. Baristas are being encouraged to “open up about implicit biases and stereotypes in encountering people of color, gender or other identities.” Starbucks has no one to blame for this fiasco but itself. For decades Starbucks has been using its stores to promote social justice, but now it's come back to bite 'em in the coffee bean. Remember back in 2015 when Starbucks ordered baristas to strike up conversations about race relations with customers? “So that’s one venti Veranda Blend Blonde Roast with extra cream. May I have your name, sir?” “Yes, thank you. It’s Todd.” “So, Tom – I’m curious – do you have a problem with Dark Roast?” “My name is Todd. Wait. What?” “And Ted, based on your defensive posture, I’m sensing some privilege, too. We can help with that.” From that day forward I began brewing Community Coffee. The beans are roasted by a family-owned company based in Louisiana. It’s a good cup of coffee, it costs less and best of all – no political agenda. There's a lesson we can all learn from this Starbucks debacle. When a coffee house serves up a piping hot cup of politics – well – it's going to end up frothing everybody's latte.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Barr Backlash! President Trump on Wednesday spoke out for the first time about ABC's cancellation of "Roseanne," knocking the network for not apologizing in other instances where people have made "horrible" anti-Trump comments on ABC. "Bob Iger of ABC called Valerie Jarrett to let her know that 'ABC does not tolerate comments like those' made by Roseanne Barr," Trump tweeted Wednesday. "Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC. Maybe I just didn't get the call?'" ABC on Tuesday cancelled Barr's popular reboot of "Roseanne" shortly after she posted a racist tweet targeting Jarrett, a former top Obama White House aide. In a now-deleted tweet, Barr described Jarrett as like "the muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby." Jimmy Failla -- Comedian, author and head writer for Kennedy on Fox Business weighs in. Go Gowdy Go! Rep. Trey Gowdy has spent the better part of the past 15 hours poking holes in President Trump's dubious trial balloon about a spy in his campaign. Gowdy, who was one of the few people to get briefed on the situation last week, told Fox News on Tuesday night that the briefing vindicated the FBI: "I am even more convinced that the FBI did exactly what my fellow citizens would want them to do when they got the information they got, and that it has nothing to do with Donald Trump." Then Wednesday morning on CBS, Gowdy, a former U.S. attorney who is retiring from Congress this year, rebuked Trump's use of the term "spying" to describe his law enforcement colleagues. " 'Undercover,' 'informant,' 'confidential informant' -- those are all words I'm familiar with," Gowdy said. "I've never heard the term 'spy' used." Guy & Marie Discuss. Plus: FBN Star Maria Bartiromo talks Starbucks. Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Benson and Harf Show LIVE Monday through Friday 6-8 pm Eastern! Find out more at BensonAndHarf.com
A couple’s 10-year wedding anniversary celebration turned into a nightmare in Midtown when a crazed man walked up to the pair, spit on the woman and then punched her husband in the face, police said Wednesday. Jeremy Goldberg and his wife Paola, 35-year-old restaurateurs from West Orange, NJ, had just finished seeing the hit Broadway musical “Dear Evan Hansen” when they were attacked while walking along Eighth Avenue near West 35th Street at around 9:55 p.m. Tuesday. The assailant, identified as 40-year-old Derrick Boyce, suddenly spit at Paola — and then beat Jeremy in the face, leaving him with a bloodied mouth and bruising on his right cheek, police said. The attacker fled the scene, but was nabbed by cops about 10 minutes later. He was charged with assault. Boyce, who was awaiting arraignment Wednesday, has 31 prior arrests on his record, mostly for theft of service, cops said. His prior offenses also include: robbery, assault, criminal possession of a controlled substance and harassment. He was previously busted on Nov. 11, 2017, in East Harlem and charged with robbery and assault after repeatedly punching a 28-year-old man in the face while attempting to grab his phone and wallet, police said. Jeremy, a North Caldwell, NJ, native who was being treated for his injuries at a hospital Wednesday, recalled to The Post how the streets were bustling at the time of the assault, but no one came to the couple’s aid. “My wife was screaming for help, and most people acted like it was normal,” Jeremy said. “Maybe the city has gotten to the point that people are desensitized to violence, mental illness, drugs…if that’s the case, I’m not sure whose fault it is — the individual or the [De Blasio] administration for allowing this lack of safety.” He added that he was “not feeling well.” His wife, Paola, said Wednesday that she was doing “OK” but won’t be making a visit to the Big Apple in the near future. “I loved that place but I’m not going to go back any time soon,” she said of the city. Paola, a native of Mexico City, said as a result of the attack she is “feeling now the same reason I left home to begin with.” “It’s not a safe place and now I feel that way here. Someone is robbing you to be able to enjoy life.” She added that she feels “people in cities are very desensitized to each other.” Paola did note that after the incident was over, a Good Samaritan jumped out of his car with what appeared to be a bat. The couple was in the Big Apple Tuesday night to celebrate their wedding anniversary, which was last week. The two own a 200-seat restaurant in Bloomfield, NJ, called Essex Junction Craft Kitchen & Bar. The 4,000-square-foot gastro-pub opened in 2015.
This morning’s key headlines from GenerationalDynamics.com Malaysia shocked when 92-year-old Mahathir Mohamad becomes prime minister Mahathir promises to reduce Malaysia’s debt and China’s influence Malaysia shocked when 92-year-old Mahathir Mohamad becomes prime minister 92-year-old Mahathir Mohamad wins election to become prime minister (EPA) Malaysia and the world were shocked on May 8 when 92-year-old Mahathir Mohamad won 113 out of a total of 222 seats in the parliament, making Mahathir the new prime minister. Mahathir defeated the incumbent prime minister Najib Razak, and it is believed that his surprising victory had to do with money. Voters were sickened by a scandal having to do with the 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), where the government cannot account for how billions of dollars were spent, though Najib denies any wrongdoing. However, six countries, including the United States, are investigating transactions related to the project. Voters were also increasingly anxious about the country’s increasing indebtedness, especially to China. Malaysia’s relationship with China dominated the election campaign, as it has in many election campaigns in the past. Malaysians like the money that China invests in infrastructure projects, but are anxious about indebtedness to China and to the growing communities of Chinese workers. Mahathir was previously prime minister from 1981 to 2003. He was a typical authoritarian leader, jailing and torturing the opposition, shutting down anti-government media, scorning human rights, and sometimes languishing in open anti-Semitism. According to one story, he was accused of being “an angry man and will burn the whole country with his anger,” and he responded, “Yes, I am a very angry man, you can see how angry I am. I will burn you, I am always burning things.” As we have seen in many other countries, being a bloody, brutal leader may not harm his popularity, and may improve it. South China Morning Post (10-May) and Reuters (27-April) and Bloomberg (7-May) and Reuters (23-May) Mahathir promises to reduce Malaysia’s debt and China’s influence Chinese investment projects in Malaysia (SCMP) In the past few years, Prime Minister Najib Razak vastly expanded the extent of Malaysia’s economic engagement with China, in particular as a result of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). However, the country is now $251 billion in debt, and the new prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, has committed to reducing the debt. Mahathir is planning harsh cutbacks. At a press briefing just after he was elected, he announced that 17,000 contractual employees would be dismissed, and ministers’ salaries would be reduced by 10 percent. A particularly sensitive cutback will be to the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, which disappeared on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board, in one of the world’s biggest aviation mysteries. Houston-based Ocean Infinity has been hired to search for the plane in the Indian Ocean, under the condition that they will be paid $70 million, but only if they succeed. Mahathir is reviewing that contract, along with many others, for possible cancellation. Mahathir’s first major canceled infrastructure project was not a Chinese investment at all. It was a planned high-speed rail link connecting Malaysia’s capital city, Kuala Lumpur, with Singapore. The price tag is $17 billion. Mahathir told reporters that “It’s not beneficial,” but in Singapore, there are concerns that the hostile relationship between Malaysia and Singapore in the previous Mahathir administration is now returning. The biggest Chinese infrastructure project under scrutiny is the East Coast Rail Link (ECRL). This is an important part of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The rail link will connect several eastern Malaysian ports on the South China Sea to Kuala Lumpur, and then to the Strait of Malacca on the west coast. Objections to previous Chinese infrastructure investments in Malaysia have focused on the presence of thousands of Chinese workers, heavy dependence on Chinese materials, and limited opportunities for local companies. In order to respond to those objections, and to avoid a repeat of past problems, former prime minister Najib said the link would create 80,000 jobs and the Chinese project operator would be obliged to give at least 70 percent of these to local workers. The Chinese construction firm is offering to provide a loan of 85 percent of the $14 billion project value, with a grace period of seven years. However, many Malaysians are familiar with the “debt trap” disaster that occurred in Sri Lanka, and many are calling the ECRL project “the next Sri Lanka.” The reference is to the Port of Hambantota, a Chinese infrastructure project in Sri Lanka, funded with a loan from China, with almost all the labor performed by Chinese workers. Sri Lanka was unable to repay the loan, and the government was forced to give the Port to China. So now Sri Lanka has a port owned by China, and a large Chinese enclave, with no benefit to itself and to its own people. Mahathir would like to cancel the ECRL contract but is discovering that it is not possible. According to the contract signed with China by the Najib government, Malaysia will have to pay billions of dollars of the loan plus interest, within three months of default. Mahathir hopes at least that costs can be reduced by eliminating some parts of the ECRL infrastructure. Malaysia Insight and CNN and CNBC and Reuters and Bloomberg and The Diplomat Related Articles: KEYS: Generational Dynamics, Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad, Najib Razak, 1Malaysia Development Berhad, 1MDB, China, Belt and Road Initiative, BRI, Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, Ocean Infinity, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, East Coast Rail Link, ECRL Sri Lanka, Port of Hambantota Permanent web link to this article Receive daily World View columns by e-mail
A Florida couple’s feud over a Google search quickly escalated to violence when the wife reportedly shot her husband in the head, according to police. Tony Brown, a prominent businessman, was discovered in a pool of blood Monday at his Fernandina Beach home after his 57-year-old wife, Lawanda Brown, allegedly wounded him, news station WPTV reported. The 58-year-old husband, who owns a consulting agency with his wife, was nominated in 2001 by President George W. Bush for a position in the US Treasury Department. He also served as a former Riviera Beach Community Redevelopment Agency director. The couple’s source of conflict Monday stemmed from a project they were working on for their business, according to Nassau County Sheriff’s Office. Lawanda Brown claimed that her husband asked her to search Google for a project template but she became upset with his tone of voice. She told investigators that the last thing she remembered was her husband walking out of the room and then her memory became “a blur.” Deputies arrived at the home around 1 p.m. to find the man was shot in the back of the head. He was airlifted to the hospital in critical condition, according to WPTV. The wife was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder. She remained in custody Wednesday at Nassau County Jail, where she is being held on $500,002 bail, according to court records.
Dr. Keith Smith admits he’s a throwback. “Whenever I give a talk or lecture, typically the first thing I tell people is that I shouldn’t be here.” The Oklahoma City anesthesiologist was running his practice full-time in the early 1990s when he decided it was time to change the equation. So he and a colleague created the Surgery Center of Oklahoma, a facility that accepts only cash payment instead of billing insurance companies or the government. While that might sound like a drastic step, the decision to abandon the modern medical morass really wasn’t that hard. “We thought, ‘let’s just open our own place and get away from these lunatics and not deal with the federal government,’” Dr. Smith said, as he recounted the discussions prior to the center’s opening. “We decided we were going to be honest and fair with our pricing and not deal with the feds. And that was our mission.” Dr. Smith’s dedication to free markets is why the Surgery Center of Oklahoma has been a success, with patients including members of the Oklahoma City Thunder, University of Oklahoma Sooners and Oklahoma State Cowboys. But it’s not just athletes who go to the Surgery Center to get treatment. Dr. Smith has had patients from all across the United States and Canada fly into Oklahoma for treatment. He said it’s because people know what they’re getting. “You know with our facility, the reason that the prices are so comparatively low is that we’re not trying to hit a grand slam on the facility charge,” he said. Dr. Smith also pointed out the Surgery Center doesn’t try to gouge patients on administrative costs because he’d have to justify the charges. He sees his job as not just being a medical advocate for patients, but a financial advocate, too. Dr. Smith’s transparency has won praise from patients. “Dealing with them was the easiest thing in the world,” patient Michelle Ray said. “I called to verify that the price listed on the website was inclusive and accurate. I made an appointment and they told me everything I would need before, during, and after surgery.” Free-market advocates call it a viable alternative to dealing with government and insurance companies. “It’s funny it’s being called innovation. It’s really not,” Oklahoma Council of Public Affairs President Jonathan Small said. “All Dr. Smith wants is for the purchase of health care to operate like the purchase of anything else you need. For years, the struggle of patients was just trying to get a price for routine procedures. Dr. Smith and his partners were able to do that. Now you see that all over the country.” The practice has grown from two to about 40 doctors since it was founded. In its first year they saw about 1,000 patients. Dr. Smith said they have averaged about 7,000 a year since they began posting prices online in 2008. But Dr. Smith’s “everything old is new again” concept was not an easy sell to the powers that be. Dr. Smith said the state legislature attempted to get the Surgery Center of Oklahoma shut down in 2000. He blames the Oklahoma Hospital Association for pushing legislation to require a tax on every physician or facility that did not generate 30 percent of their revenue from Medicaid, Medicare or charity care. That would have forced Surgery Center of Oklahoma to accept government funds, something Dr. Smith wasn’t going to let happen. “We had to work hard at the legislature to make sure to make that go away, and it backfired. We were attacked by our own health department,” he said, but “we ended up winning that.” The legislature hasn’t tried to go after Dr. Smith and his colleagues since, and even adopted a market-oriented policy last year that allows state employees to use their self-funded plans at cash-only facilities. Now Dr. Smith’s ideas are spreading beyond Oklahoma. In 2014 he helped launch the Free Market Medical Association, which hooks up patients with like-minded doctors. FMMA holds conferences to show doctors how to make a cash-only system work. Dr. Smith said the movement has benefited from widespread disenchantment with the 2010 health care law. And he expects it to grow. “I’m optimistic about the practice of medicine in the United States than I’ve ever been before,” Dr. Smith said. “In the federal government’s attempt to take it over, it actually very paradoxically created a consumer market and it’s going well. It’s very exciting.” Dr. Smith’s efforts to re-instill a philosophy that goes back to his great uncle’s work as a physician during the Great Depression — medical and financial accountability to patients — make him an Unsung Hero.
WASHINGTON – President Trump, who is skilled at exercising his fingers on his cellphone, told kids about the importance of putting down their electronics and picking up sports. Sweating on the practice field will build patience, integrity, teamwork and “social skills,” Trump told young people Wednesday at a White House fitness event. Then the president paused and asked the crowd whether he has such qualities. “Do I have social skills?” Trump quipped. “I don’t know.” “I have social media that’s for sure,” Trump said, referring to his heavy daily dose of tweeting. ”I don’t know about skill, but I have a lot of media!” The gathering at the White House with about 250 young athletes, coaches and parents was designed to boost youth sports participation, which has been on the decline, according to the White House. Trump appointed several former pro athletes to lead his Council on Sport, Fitness, and Nutrition, including former Yankees pitcher Mariano Rivera. Trump gushed that Rivera was one of the greatest pitchers of all time and pondered whether he ever got bored of winning. Rivera shook his head “no.” Trump then quizzed Rivera about how he was able to break so many bats with his pitches. “Exactly how do you do that? Can you explain that please?” Trump said. “There’s one explanation,” Rivera said. “That was a pitch from heaven.” Trump wasn’t buying it. “It’s called talent,” Trump told the kids.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. WASHINGTON -- In 2014, commencement season stood out for the list of high-profile speakers pushed off the graduation stage at top-tier universities. At the peak of academia's podium purges, former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice backed out of her planned commencement address at Rutgers University amid protests over her support of the Iraq War. The free-speech Foundation for Individual Rights in Education took to calling the annual rituals the "disinvitation season." Universities have gotten savvier since then. They've learned not to invite controversial conservatives so they can spare themselves the shame of graduates flaunting their intolerance in the name of diversity -- blissfully unaware of how authoritarian they appear. There's less mess in 2018. Academics smile and present their predictable politics in benevolent style, as your humble correspondent saw first hand last weekend when a university dean used an occasion meant to celebrate student achievement to criticize President Donald Trump's decision to downsize the Bears Ears National Monument in Utah. The worst part: He got his facts wrong. The dean attributed the Bears Ears downsizing to Trump's Environmental Protection Agency -- when it was the Department of Interior that recommended the change. For the sake of family harmony, I shall not divulge the identity of the relative who walked away with an advanced degree or the name of the university. But I will quote one of his statements: "Democracy depends on educated citizens." That's right, the dean who warned students about the risk of unschooled boobs ruining sound public policy didn't get his facts straight. When I emailed the good dean about his error, he responded, "Thanks so much for this important correction. Yes, it was the Interior Department. Still my main point is valid, I believe, namely that the federal government is supposed to protect public lands and other public goods." Get it? Even when he's factually wrong, he's so right it doesn't matter. And yet, facts do matter. President Barack Obama designated Bears Ears a national monument in December 2016. It was the sort of out-the-door move politicians love because there is no risk at the ballot box. It's also the sort of Washington-knows-best thinking that Westerners have come to expect from beltway bureaucrats, who have no problem with locals having less say in how land in fly-over country is used. "The larger overview is that this isn't a problem for most Easterners because the federal government owns very small fractions of the land in the East and most of the Midwest," noted Todd Gaziano, executive director of the pro-property rights Pacific Legal Foundation. In both Nevada and Utah, however, the federal government owns more than half the states' acreage. Obama's Bears Ears consumed 1.35 million acres, which is bigger than the size of Rhode Island. Trump's downsized Bears Ears spans 201,876 acres -- which makes for a pretty big spread, but not big enough for the dean. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke recommended that Bears Ears be downsized in keeping with the Antiquities Act of 1906. The act called for monuments to be "confined to the smallest area compatible with proper care and management" of land based on its value as an historic landmark, prehistoric structure or for its scientific interest. It makes sense to limit how much land can be put off limits by executive fiat. Monument status, Gaziano noted, can mean less land for cattle grazing, mining and roads -- endeavors that create jobs. "What I don't think he understands," said Gaziano of the dean, "is the impact of legal monument designation on the individuals who aren't employed in Ivory Tower universities." The only benefit Gaziano sees in monuments that consume more than one million acres is "environmental use for granola-crunching backpackers." The dean's remarks were reminiscent of the opposition campaign to oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, a cause dear to many who never have or never will set foot in the refuge. They throw out words like "public good" without seeming to weigh how their good intentions could shortchange people who actually live off the land. They mean well, and that's all that matters.
This story broke before the long weekend, but because the corresponding news cycle was fraught screaming about NFL anthem kneeling regulations, it largely got lost in the culture war cacophony. One of the fundamental flaws of the Iran nuclear deal -- from which President Trump has withdrawn the United States, correctly, in my view -- is that the regime in Tehran simply is not a reliable partner. Even if they were to technically abide by every one of the West's temporary restrictions (it must be noted that they have not done so scrupulously, and provably lied from the very beginning), the Iranians would emerge from their decade-plus stay in the global penalty box as a cash-flush threshold nuclear-armed power, thanks to the accord's extraordinary and lopsided concessions. President Obama has effectively admitted as much, just as he's allowed that the regime has almost certainly exploited its new financial windfall to finance terrorism, and has breached the "spirit" of the agreement through its ongoing pursuit of technology to deliver the nuclear weapons they continue to covet. And now we can add even more clandestine treachery to the rap sheet, via the New York Times: Oh. For years, Iran has been operating a secret weapons facility in a remote desert. Satellite imagery strongly suggests it’s for developing long-range missiles — which can deliver nuclear warheads — which is often “conducted under cover of night.”https://t.co/3kvGanXfgX — Guy Benson (@guypbenson) May 23, 2018 When an explosion nearly razed Iran’s long-range missile research facility in 2011 — and killed the military scientist who ran it — many Western intelligence analysts viewed it as devastating to Tehran’s technological ambitions. Since then, there has been little indication of Iranian work on a missile that could reach significantly beyond the Middle East, and Iranian leaders have said they do not intend to build one. So, this spring, when a team of California-based weapons researchers reviewed new Iranian state TV programs glorifying the military scientist, they expected a history lesson with, at most, new details on a long-dormant program. Instead, they stumbled on a series of clues that led them to a startling conclusion: Shortly before his death, the scientist, Gen. Hassan Tehrani Moghaddam, oversaw the development of a secret, second facility in the remote Iranian desert that, they say, is operating to this day... For weeks, the researchers picked through satellite photos of the facility. They found, they say, that work on the site now appears to focus on advanced rocket engines and rocket fuel, and is often conducted under cover of night. It is possible that the facility is developing only medium-range missiles, which Iran already possesses, or perhaps an unusually sophisticated space program...But an analysis of structures and ground markings at the facility strongly suggests, though does not prove, that it is developing the technology for long-range missiles, the researchers say...If completed, [an Iranian long range missile program] could threaten Europe and potentially the United States...Five outside experts who independently reviewed the findings agreed that there was compelling evidence that Iran is developing long-range missile technology. The online version of the Times' story links to this 2017 report in which Iranian leaders are quoted swearing up and down that they had no interest in long-range missile technology: "Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said his country will not develop ballistic missiles with a range exceeding 2,000 kilometers, reinforcing prior statements by officials and military leaders about missile range limitations," it reads. This regime does not tell the truth. More: [United Nations] Resolution 2231 only “called” on Iran to refrain from ballistic missile activities, including development and testing, there is a clear prohibition on transfers or exports of ballistic missiles and related technologies without advance approval from the UN Security Council. A similar process is required for a range of armaments. Yet, a U.S. statement tying a missile fired on Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to Iran raises concerns that Iran may have violated the restriction prohibiting transfers. The Saudi military intercepted a missile from Yemen targeted at Riyadh’s international airport on Nov. 4. Air Force Lt. Gen. Jeffrey Harrigan, head of U.S. Air Force Central Command in Qatar, said on Nov. 10 that there have been Iranian markings on missiles used by the Houthis against Saudi and Saudi-backed forces in the war in Yemen. He said the markings “connect the dots to Iran.” Other countries, including Saudi Arabia and France, also linked the missile to Iran in earlier statements. Again, Iran is either directly violating international law, or at least thumbing its nose at the clear "spirit" of the international nuclear pact to which it has ostensibly agreed. Defenders of that deal will eagerly point to this detail: "Such a program would not violate the international deal intended to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon." It's true: In a major eleventh-hour giveaway to Tehran, the Obama administration caved to Iranian demands that the West also ease sanctions against its illicit ballistic missiles program, and lift the existing international weapons embargo. The fact that the discovery of a (growing) secret desert facility designed for the development of long-range missiles (the pursuit of which Iranian leaders have denied), largely operating in the dark of night, would not constitute a violation of the Iran deal is not a compelling defense of the Iran deal. It is a devastating indictment of it. Speaking of which, one word that does not appear anywhere in the New York Times piece (which is worth a thorough read for a summary of multiple incriminating details) is "inspections." It may be too late by now, but shouldn't the West be able to gain virtually instant access to this compound to determine its purpose and examine its progress? Maybe not. For all of the "echo chamber's" bragging about robust inspections, military sites are off limits, according to the Iranians. And as the deal makes clear, Iran is in the driver's seat, happy to exploit the rest of the vaunted "international community" desperation to maintain their precious agreement. Fortunately, the Trump administration has not been nearly as enthralled with this reckless legacy project. In case you missed it, I'll leave you with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's forceful speech on Iran's path forward from last week -- with five key takeaways from the address enumerated in a Jerusalem Post column: Editor's Note: The satellite image attached to this post is via the Center for Nonproliferation Studies.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. "Adam Schiff is right, we should go back to where our economy is growing at 1% a year in which people are leaving the work force in which wages are not growing, the stock market is flat. That's what we want to go back to? Don't think so Adam, we want prosperity, not doom and gloom socialism." ---Senator Cassidy responding to Rep Adam Schiff saying "Throw the bums out" Senator Dr. Bill Cassidy (R-LA) joined Brian Kilmeade today and responded to Rep Adam Schiff saying we need to "throw the bums out" in order to protect the Mueller probe by saying, "We want prosperity, not doom and gloom socialism," and went on to point out the accomplishments under President Trump. Cassidy also discussed his new policy ideas to lower health care costs and the renewed push for DACA reform in congress. Listen here:
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Among my friends here in deepest blue Los Angeles, I am likely the only openly conservative Republican some of them know. And as a veteran, I am probably the closest contact they’ve had with the military since sitting in the theater to watch American Sniper. So when events like the Las Vegas shootings occurred, knowledge of my personal history and political views would temporarily displace the usual Trump/Russia collusion banter and lead to genuinely uncomfortable conversations about guns. Over the past weeks the conversations have become more frequent because California is in the midst of an election cycle where the shining lights of state’s Democratic Party are climbing over each other to position themselves as the strongest “gun control” candidate. Why does anyone need a gun anyway? my liberal, well-educated SoCal friends invariably - and rhetorically - ask. Shotguns and hunting rifles I can understand if you’re a sportsman, but there’s nobody in America who needs a military-grade assault rifle. You’re not going to shoot ducks with that. And look at the damage they cause! I’d usually just nod and agree that the shootings were cowardly, despicable acts, and that I too wanted them to end, just like everyone else. Evil people killing innocent people is unspeakably heinous whenever and wherever it occurs, be it with a rock, a knife, or a Kalashnikov. My somber observation confirming the obvious usually concluded the conversation, but doubtlessly left my liberal “gun control” friends unconvinced that people like me who adhere to the belief that Americans have a fundamental right (maybe even a moral duty) to bear arms have any real desire to “fix the problem.” And despite the fact I believe mass shootings are symptomatic of a larger societal problem that has little to do with guns themselves, it was a hard point to argue in the wake of tragedy without sounding trite and callous. Then the tragedy at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School happened and the subsequent press reports uncovered something that crystallized my conviction. Eleven minutes- the length of time it took law enforcement officers who responded to the school to enter the building after the shooting began. “Eleven minutes” supplies the explanation that I’ve never been able to clearly articulate: I believe in the Second Amendment because I want to be able to protect my loved ones and myself for those eleven minutes, wherever and whenever those eleven minutes happen. See, the thing that’s hardest to communicate to “gun control” advocates is that all the people who own firearms aren’t caricatured “gun nuts” who drink Wild Turkey out of the bottle. They aren’t “survivalists” stockpiling ammunition and canned tuna living in cabins in the woods. Their convictions don’t spring from some sort of strange gun fetish or allegiance to an anachronistic ideology birthed in a less civilized time. They are not morally flawed because they have an “assault rifle” in their gun safe. They are instead people who, in moments of heart-pounding necessity, believe they would stand their ground during those eleven minutes. A considerable portion of the American public is armed for no other reason than it aspires to be brave in the darkest of moments when them and theirs are threatened. They want to be able to defend their loved ones and themselves for those eleven minutes when nobody else will - or can. People believe in the Second Amendment because they don’t want the safety and security of their friends and families to depend upon the bravery of others. They are not willing to put the lives of those dear to them, or their own, at risk because the armed person the government assigned to protect them is cowering behind his patrol car. I wonder what Korean shopkeepers in South Central Los Angeles who survived the 1992 riots would think about the progressive notion that the only guns the public should have are basic rifles and shotguns designed for ducks and deer. Those who stood on the rooftops with weapons in hand while the Los Angeles Police Department was miles away and the city in flames around them would probably think it was quaint. More likely they’d think it was dangerously naive because their eleven minutes lasted for days. Ideas about what sorts of weapons are “necessary” can change dramatically during eleven minutes, especially when the bad guys have guns and their intentions aren’t focused on ducks or deer. So now when my “gun control” friends ask about why anyone needs a modern firearm, or that the Founding Fathers couldn’t conceive of bump-stocks or 30-round magazines when they wrote the Second Amendment, I simply respond - eleven minutes. Patrick “Kit” Bobko is the author of “Nine Secrets for Getting Elected: The Official Manual for Candidates from City Hall to the Statehouse and Beyond” available on Amazon.
A woman from New Zealand is facing backlash after photos of her chin tattoo began making waves earlier this week. Sally Anderson, a life coach, reportedly got the tattoo as an homage to New Zealand's indigenous Maori culture, but some are saying it's offensive on the grounds of cultural appropriation. The tattoo, known as a "moko kauae," has since sparked a debate across the island nation, the BBC reported. The blonde, blue-eyed white woman is reportedly married to a Maori man who has a full facial tattoo, and she claims her body art symbolizes strength after surviving a gang rape as a teenager in the 1980s, according to News.com.au She also got the moko "a few years ago" by a Maori artist, the BBC reports. HIGH SCHOOL SPEAKS OUT AFTER BEING CRITICIZED FOR NOT ALLOWING GRADUATING SENIOR TO WEAR ARMY SASH The backlash began after Anderson added photos of herself with the moko to her life-coaching business' website and social media pages. Critics have since accused Anderson of trying to get attention and boost her business, called Evolved Leadership, with the design. “I do think there’s a level of cultural appropriation and I do think there’s a level of white privilege that’s being displayed here, and I think we need to be really cautious about that,” Mera Lee-Penehira, an associate professor at Te Whare Wananga o Awanuiarangi, a New Zealand university, told BBC. “The carvings that go on the face or head are also particularly sacred,” Dr. Lee-Penehira said of the “business branding.” “It’s not acceptable … You can only have it if you have a genealogy that is Maori,” she added. Moko kauae facial tattoos, which traditionally cover the entire face for men and chin for women, are a sacred tradition that connect an individual to their Maori family and cultural roots. Likewise, artist Ngaahina Hohaia begged Maori artists to not “compromise their heritage” by tattooing non-Maoris with heritage designs. “It’s not hers to have, and not for [the tattoo artist] to have given away,” she said, according to News.com.au. “Cultural appropriation has pillaged almost every other taonga [treasure] sacred to our people. The line is drawn here,” she was further quoted on Facebook. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS However, others felt that the censure was unwarranted. “I would just say it’s a bit double-handed perhaps,” tattoo artist Jale Uncu of Zealand Tattoo told Australia’s SBS News of the headlines, which he finds a “bit silly.” “I wouldn’t understand exactly why they would be getting upset about this particular individual when it’s so well spread internationally… all parts of the globe and all ethnic origins,” Uncu said. Anderson has yet to make public statement on the matter. She did not immediately return Fox News’ request for comment.
Airport lines are the worst, no matter how early you arrive. You’ve got to check your bags, then go through the necessary security and ID checks and you’re usually waiting in line for most of them. The emergence of artificial intelligence may speed that whole process by eliminating at least one of those types of queues. Researchers have discovered one way to effortlessly and passively identify a person with increased accuracy. Unfortunately, the system can also be used for spying on people. Found by Gizmodo, the IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence paper reveals that AI can be used to identify individuals by the way they walk. “Each human has approximately 24 different factors and movements when walking, resulting in every individual person having a unique, singular walking pattern,” lead author of the study Omar Costilla Reyes said in a statement. AI is so good at analyzing the data that it can spot people who’re faking their walking. The method is less invasive than other behavioral biometric verification systems and could be deployed inside airports and other areas to check the identity of people passing by instantly. The system was nearly 100 percent accurate in identifying individuals, with an error rate of just 0.7 percent. As mentioned, this makes it a great tool for spying, but it requires two essential elements to work. For starters, the system requires high-resolution cameras and unique flooring with sensors embedded into it to measure variables related to a user’s walking behavior. It also needs a database of information so that it can compare its findings against saved records. Therefore, mass-surveillance operations that could identify a large number of people by the way they walk seem highly unlikely for the time being. But such systems may very well be used to speed up airport checks for frequent flyers who would not mind having their walking habits recorded in a database the first time they go through it. Their walking fingerprint could then be shared with other airports who would deploy the same kind of technology.
OAKLAND, Calif. — You can be forgiven for thinking you’ve seen all this before. You have. We all have. But conversely, if you believe the fourth straight Cleveland-against-Golden State NBA Finals seems somewhat new and different, you also can’t be faulted. Never in the NBA, NFL, MLB or NHL have the same two teams slugged it out in the championship round four straight years. So that’s new. As are the Cavs, in a way. Remade at the trade deadline, the Cavs have a healthy share of Finals first-timers. Oh, Cleveland still has the hands-down, best player on earth and all reported planets in LeBron James. But his presence can’t deflect one other decidedly different wrinkle. Never were LeBron and the Cavs cast as such decisive underdogs, not even after the Warriors won 73 games and were defending champions. James, without All-Star sidekick Kyrie Irving, has dragged the Cavs through three series to get them to join him for his eighth consecutive Finals, ninth overall. Good luck. Injuries affect the Finals. The Cavs hope Kevin Love is cleared from the concussion protocol while the Warriors have fingers crossed about the knee injury of 2015 Finals MVP Andre Iguodala — he’s already out for Game 1, and will be re-evaluated before Game 2. Still, the Warriors carry an All-Star array of talent with Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green, all of whom will be intent on wearing down James. Here’s a look at the matchups, with postseason stats: Point guard Stephen Curry (24.8 points, 4.9 assists) vs. George Hill (9.7 points, 2.2 assists) Golden State’s Curry missed the first six postseason games with a sprained knee, and while he doesn’t look 100 percent and shows occasional rust, he still has enough to remind all that he’s a two-time MVP. When he’s right, every time he shoots, you think it’s good. Right now, not so much. Hill is a steady, non-spectacular but consistent pro. The Cavs pray he hit shots and avoids foul trouble. Behind him are venerable (a nice way of saying old) Jose Calderon and Finals newbie Jordan Clarkson. Edge: Warriors Shooting guard Klay Thompson (20.5 points, .462 FG%) vs. J.R. Smith (8.5 points, .356 FG%) He is an All-Star, but Thompson remains under the radar with the galaxy of stars surrounding him on the Warriors. He is one of the game’s premier two-way players, a terrific defender who lights it up offensively with anyone. His size makes him another guy to stick on LeBron. Smith is a wild card. Again. He can shoot them in or shoot them out of any game. When he makes shots, life is easier for the Cavs. But you don’t know what you’re going to get beyond competitiveness, so his inconsistency hurts. He’ll be tough through familiarity, and when focused, he’s gritty athletically. Edge: Warriors Small forward LeBron James (34.0 points, 9.2 rebounds, 8.8 assists) vs. Andre Iguodala (7.9 points, 4.9 rebounds, 3.1 assists) Pencil in LeBron anywhere and get “Edge: Cavaliers.” LeBron is, well, LeBron, still the best player on the floor. If you haven’t heard of him, here’s another tidbit: people do more than make calls with their phones. The Warriors will throw waves on him: Iguodala (if healthy), Green, Thompson, Durant to exhaust him. If James gets 35 and Durant gets 30, the Warriors win walking away. Iguodala — out for at least Game 1 with a leg injury — is an X-factor, giving Golden State a gritty defender in its small lineup that was so successful before his injury. Edge: Cavaliers Power forward Kevin Durant (29.0 points, 7.1 rebounds) vs. Kevin Love (13.9 points, 10.0 rebounds) Everybody switches, so this guy guards that guy, then that guy over there and so on. Love’s initial availability is in question for Cleveland (concussion protocol). Durant, also used all over, is arguably the NBA’s second-best player after LeBron. Durant has made an effort to be a better defender, another headache in his set of spectacular skills. He’s 7 feet, has great ball-handling skills, can stretch the defense or get to the rim. Somewhere, he’ll match up with James. Again, if Durant-James is a push, the Cavs have no chance. Love scores, rebounds, stretches the defense but defensively is wanting. Edge: Warriors Center Draymond Green (11.1 points, 11.6 rebounds) vs. Tristan Thompson (6.1 points, 6.1 rebounds) This depends on Iguodala’s availability. The Warriors could keep starting Kevon Looney. But if Iguodala plays — again, Game 2 at the earliest — Green anchors a small lineup. He leads the Warriors in postseason rebounds, steals, assists and blocks, impacting the game in so many ways, including emotionally. Green will spend a lot of time on LeBron — if not Green, then Durant, if not Durant then Iguodala, if not Iguodala then Thompson. They have great defenders everywhere. Thompson has played well since re-emerging. He’s a stud offensive rebounder and provides rim protection. Edge: Warriors Bench Kyle Korver leads Cleveland’s sub pack. Obviously, a terrific threat from 3, he’s underrated defensively, one of the better team defenders around, not great one-on-one. Jeff Green, Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr. are making initial Finals trips. When Nance and Thompson play together, the Cavs have good energy and shot-blocking. The Warriors bench is basically hold the fort for the starters. Edge: Cavaliers Intangibles Start off with home court. If it goes seven games, the Warriors are home — as defending champs — while the Cavs need to win a third straight series without that home court. Yes, LeBron has been superb, but getting misty over him playing 48 minutes against Boston needs to be tempered with a reminder: Wilt Chamberlain averaged 48.5 minutes one season, playing six overtime games. Edge: Warriors Coach Both have rings. As a coach, Steve Kerr has two, Tyronn Lue has one. Go with numbers. Edge: Warriors Prediction Warriors in 5. The Warriors are better than the Cavs at four positions. Bottom line: The Cavs can’t beat the Warriors four times. Post predictions Fred Kerber Warriors in 5. The Warriors are better than the Cavs at four positions. Bottom line: The Cavs can’t beat the Warriors four times. Marc Berman Warriors in 6. Will be tougher series than Vegas projects as LeBron stopper Andre Iguodola appears more hurt than team is letting on. The “non LeBrons’’ sure get paid enough to step up in The Finals and expect gritty series from Tristan Thompson, Kevin Love, George Hill (combined 2017-18 salary $59M). Brian Lewis Warriors in 5. Cleveland would need a superhuman effort from LeBron, near-flawless defense and red-hot shooting to win a game. Odds are they won’t get more than one.
Ireland’s campaign to save the country’s Eighth Amendment, which bans abortion, is conceding it has lost Friday’s referendum by a landslide. The people of Ireland “weighed it in the balance and it came down on one side. I obviously would have preferred if they had come down on the other,” John McGuirk, communications director for the “Save the 8th” campaign, told national broadcaster RTE, according to Reuters. “There is no prospect of the (abortion rights) legislation not being passed,” McGuirk added. Many who voted in favor of repeal are crying “tears of joy” with the prospect of abortion access in their country: Mother Georgina Barrow and daughter Natalie who had just done the tally on their own parish and it came in 90 to 66 in favour of repeal!. They were overwhelmed. "We had really good feedback on the doors, but you just don't know what people will do when they are in the booth" — lisa o'carroll (@lisaocarroll) May 26, 2018 The scenes as our Directors Orla, Grainne and Ailbhe enter the RDS, we have news that #together4yes has just crossed 1 million votes tallied with 67.6% Yes (and it was Clare reporting a 64% yes that brought us past the 1 million!) #together4yes pic.twitter.com/I5HxISlwcD — Together for Yes (@Together4yes) May 26, 2018 Irish people from around the world are flying #HomeToVote, and hopefully end the country's strict abortion ban pic.twitter.com/52YSpU3YBo — NowThis (@nowthisnews) May 25, 2018 🗳 A very emotional morning …every box in my district has voted to #repealthe8th – Thank you to the people of County Meath for voting for an Ireland that no longer exports and endangers women…a resounding endorsement of care, compassion and change! #8thRef pic.twitter.com/piI4GLvaPi — Andrew Ralph (@AndrewRalphPC) May 26, 2018 18 hours until polls open. This is it, the final push for Yes. We have a once in a lifetime opportunity to make Ireland a safer place for women and girls. Let’s do it. #together4yes #Together2vote pic.twitter.com/jbEuwycPRX — Together for Yes (@Together4yes) May 24, 2018 Very emotional scenes in @Together4yes HQ as word comes through that Exit Poll indicates YES 68%. Barely a dry eye in the room ❤ #together4yes #8thref #Tá4Mná pic.twitter.com/MwNb8cyfTG — Oisín MacCanna 🎗 (@OisMacC) May 25, 2018 Statement by Save the 8th on referendum result Save the 8th has issued the following statement on the referendum result: “The 8th amendment did not create a right to life for the unborn child – it merely acknowledged… https://t.co/JKlLNsvuN9 — Savethe8th (@Savethe8thInfo) May 26, 2018 Now that the #Savethe8th crowd have lost on #repealthe8th, will they campaign for things that will reduce abortion rates – better sex education, free contraception, free universal childcare? LOL of course not, they'll just stand outside clinics harassing women. — Adam McGibbon (@AdamMcGibbon) May 26, 2018 The campaign “Together for Yes” claimed – as many in the international abortion industry often do – that women cannot be “safe” and “healthy” without access to abortion. Despite numerous OB/GYNs in Ireland asserting the country is one of the “safest” and “healthiest” places for women with the Eighth Amendment in place, the exit polls suggest many voters relied on the abortion industry and left-wing media for their information: Thousands of Irish women are forced to travel abroad every year just to be able to decide their own futures. https://t.co/rLPPDuM4oj #RepealThe8th — NARAL (@NARAL) May 25, 2018 Additionally, a 2011 study published at the British Journal of Psychiatry – which was only released online in January – provided “the largest quantitative estimate of mental health risks associated with abortion available in the world literature.” Results found women who had an abortion showed an “81 percent increased risk of mental health problems,” with nearly ten percent of those mental health problems “shown to be directly attributable to abortion.” “The finding that abortion is associated with significantly higher risks of mental health problems compared with carrying a pregnancy to term is consistent with literature demonstrating protective effects of pregnancy delivered relative to particular mental health outcomes,” wrote researcher Priscilla K. Coleman. In the United States, pro-life leaders have been fighting the same narrative – that abortion provides “safety” and “health” for mothers – since the Supreme Court’s decision in Roe v. Wade in 1973. Students for Life of America President Kristan Hawkins said, “Ireland will now join that sad community of nations who throw away irreplaceable human beings through abortion on demand.” “Clearly, the abortion industry and their political and cultural allies put preborn life in the crosshairs, working to push this tragic conclusion to all efforts to protect both mother and preborn child,” Hawkins said in a statement sent to Breitbart News. “Still, it’s a tragedy that the Irish people did not learn from our mistakes and have failed to provide pro-life protections in the law. As a result of Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton, we in the U.S. mourn more than 60 million lives lost and horrific consequences for the women who endured the lies and impact of abortion. Ireland will not face a loss they can’t calculate.” Jeanne Mancini, president of March for Life, reacted with sadness “to learn so many Irish people voted against love and life by repealing the 8th Amendment.” “Americans know from experience that there will be many grave and irreversible consequences to this decision, including the loss of precious lives,” she said, adding: A study released this week shows that legalizing abortion greatly increases the number of children whose lives are terminated in the womb. Though they are the first, unborn children are not the only victims; abortion harms mothers too. Life is the empowering decision. We grieve for the great loss this beautiful country will endure and we pray that they find a way to reverse this unfortunate decision. “Today, the Americans United for Life (AUL) legal team is saddened that the people of Ireland have paved the way for abortion on demand in their country,” said Catherine Glenn Foster, president of AUL. “AUL offers our support to the pro-life people of Ireland – we continue to stand with you and thank you for your valiant efforts to defend life,” she added. “If the global pro-life movement continues to work together to advance the cause of life, we have every faith that we will see a day when everyone is welcomed in life and protected in law.”
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Today, all Americans are told, "Go to college!" President Obama said, "College graduation has never been more valuable." But economist Bryan Caplan says that most people shouldn't go. "How many thousands of hours did you spend in classes studying subjects that you never thought about again?" he asks. Lots, in my case. At Princeton, I learned to live with strangers, play cards and chase women, but I slept through boring lectures, which were most of them. At least tuition was only $2,000. Now it's almost $50,000. "People usually just want to talk about the tuition, which is a big deal, but there's also all the years that people spend in school when they could have been doing something else," points out Caplan in my new YouTube video. "If you just take a look at the faces of students, it's obvious that they're bored," he says. "People are there primarily in order to get a good job." That sounds like a good reason to go to college. But Caplan, in his new book, "The Case Against Education," argues that there's little connection between what we absorb in college and our ability to do a job. "It's totally true that when people get fancier degrees their income generally goes up," concedes Caplan, but "the reason why this is happening is not that college pours tons of job skills into you. The reason is ... a diploma is a signaling device." It tells employers that you were smart enough to get through college. But when most everyone goes to college, says Caplan, "You just raise the bar. Imagine you're at a concert, and you want to see better. Stand up and of course you'll see better. But if everyone stands up, you just block each other's views." That's why today, he says, high-end waiters are expected to have college degrees. "You aren't saying: you, individual, don't go to college," I interjected."You're saying we as a country are suckers to subsidize it." "Exactly," replied Caplan. "Just because it is lucrative for an individual doesn't mean it's a good idea for a country." Caplan says if students really want to learn, they can do it without incurring tuition debt. "If you want to go to Princeton, you don't have to apply," he points out. "Just move to the town and start attending classes." That's generally true. At most schools you can crash college lectures for free. But almost no one does that. "In people's bones, they realize that what really counts is that diploma," concludes Caplan. Because that diploma is now usually subsidized by taxpayers, college costs more. Tuition has risen at triple the rate of inflation. It's not clear students learn more for their extra tuition, but colleges' facilities sure have gotten fancier. They compete by offering things like luxurious swimming pools and gourmet dining. That probably won't help you get a job. "If you're doing computer science or electrical engineering, then you probably are actually learning a bunch of useful skills," Caplan says. But students now often major in abstract topics like social justice, diversity studies, multicultural studies. "But don't the liberal arts expand people's minds?" I asked. Philosophy? Literature? Isn't it all making our brains work better? "That's the kind of thing you expect teachers to say," answered Caplan. "There's a whole field of people who have actually studied this (and) they generally come away after looking at a lot of evidence saying, 'Wow, actually it's wishful thinking.'" A study found that a third of people haven't detectably learned anything after four years in college. Although Caplan thinks college is mostly a scam, he says there's one type of person who definitely benefits -- professors like him. "I'm a tenured professor," he said. "A tenured professor cannot be fired. ... You got a nice income and there are almost no demands upon your time." Professor Caplan is only expected to teach for five hours a week. I told him that sounded like a government-subsidized rip-off. "Yeah. Well, I'm a whistleblower," replied Caplan.
NBC’s Joy Reid praised a blogger who championed the idea that conservative commentator Ann Coulter kill herself, archives of Reid’s old blog reveal. On June 13, 2006, at the now defunct Reid Report, and under the ghoulish headline “You know, it would kill her, and I think I’m cool with that…” Reid introduces the excerpt by mocking Coulter as a man (something the notoriously homophobic Reid frequently did). “Ad Age’s Media Guy serves up … Dr. Evil Her..m…self: Ann Coulter,” Reid writes. Here is the excerpt Reid references: Would it kill you, “Godless” author Ann Coulter, to do us all a favor and kill yourself? (Oh, well, yeah, I guess it would kill you.) After her recent rabidly hateful, foaming-at-the-mouth, sub-human “Today” show appearance — in which she reiterated her assertion that 9/11 widows are “enjoying their husband’s deaths” — even her former supporters began to fantasize about how much nicer the world would be if it were Coulterless. Reid then follows this with a cheer of personal approval over the idea of Coulter being killed. “Oweee. And I mean that in a good way,” Reid writes. Just below that is a link to Reid Report piece titled “Ann Coulter is a very bad man.” It is important to point out that, at the time, Reid was not a thoughtless, immature teenager championing the untimely death of a political opponent. In 2006, Reid turned 38, co-hosted a local radio show, and wrote a political column for the Miami Herald. Reid was also a grown woman when she wrote a seemingly unending series of homophobic posts on this same blog. Worse still, Reid was a 49-year-old anchor for NBC News at MSNBC when she lied to the whole world about a hacker writing some of those homophobic posts. To cover up her gay-baiting past, Reid not only sent the media on a wild goose chase in search of her fabricated hacker, she reportedly involved the FBI in her phony crime. On top of that, Wednesday night we learned that Reid has spread 9/11 conspiracy theories. In summation, Joy Reid, is a serial-homophobe who spreads 9/11 conspiracy theories, who cheers on the death of her political opponents, and who spreads conspiracy theories of her own — even to the FBI — about hackers who do not exist. Oh, and this same Joy Reid is a big star at NBC News, an anchor for MSNBC, and someone the network chose to co-host a high-profile panel on bigotry earlier this week. BIGOTRY. But Reid is in solid company at NBC among her other ideologically pure NBC colleagues, including homophobe Alec Baldwin, rape-denier Andrea Mitchell, abuse-enabler Mika Brzezinski, serial liar Brian Williams, accused stalker/groper Mike Tirico, and accused harassers Chris Matthews, and Tom Brokaw. Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. In a recent column, I spoke of the two current forms of populism and how they’re challenging the “Liberal International Order,” the governing philosophy that has guided the U.S.’s use of power in the service of freedom for ourselves and our allies since World War II. The question is, where does President Trump’s form of populism fit into what might be called the new version of the Liberal International Order? We can find some clues in his 1987 book “The Art of the Deal.” When Trump invited me to serve on his Presidential Transition Team, I reread my copy of his book more carefully than I had the first time, and I found some very interesting points in there. “If you are going to think any way, you might as well think big,” Trump, the legendary dealmaker, wrote. Well, running for president is certainly a big thought. Another Trump dictum that impressed me was his view that when you think big, go into negotiations (or even discussions) and become a disrupter. In other words, come up with new ideas that are so far outside the boundaries of what is considered possible that you effectively change not only the debate, but the whole framework for considering the debate. As I have said many times before, political change occurs at the margin. What President Trump does is expand that field of debate so that the margin moves significantly beyond the way it is conventionally thought of, either in Washington among the traditional thinkers and politicians, or around the world by both our friends and our adversaries. Consider a specific example of an international encounter where Trump is thinking anew. During the presidential campaign, then-candidate Trump had this to say about NATO: “NATO is costing us a fortune and yes, we're protecting Europe with NATO, but we're spending a lot of money. … I think the distribution of costs has to be changed. I think NATO as a concept is good, but it is not as good as it was when it first evolved." He later added,"I think NATO may be obsolete.” His bottom line: Members are not meeting their spending commitments. They have to pay up. Trump said that many times, and every time he did, the political establishment of both parties went crazy. They said it was an outrage that he would talk that way. Well, at least most of the political establishment felt that way. At that time, former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld -- who also served at one time as the American Ambassador to NATO -- said to me, “Ed, I don’t understand it. When I was Ambassador to NATO and then when I was Defense Secretary, I would go around giving dinner speeches saying that Europe had to spend more on NATO, and all I did was put everyone to sleep. Trump says the exact same thing, and everyone dumps on him.” Fast forward to today, and we have a new report from NATO pointing that in 2017, NATO members increased their military spending by a net 5 percent. It further noted that in 2014, only three countries in NATO plus the United States were meeting the 2 percent of GDP goal. By the end of this year, there will be eight countries, plus the U.S. That didn’t happen because of “business as usual” at NATO. That happened because President Trump thought big -- and well outside the box. This shouldn’t surprise anyone, though. When you change the framework of the debate and talk about the end of NATO instead of marginal changes to its funding, you can actually change the behavior of people who have a significant stake in the outcome of the negotiations. It can be messy, and it can certainly upset people. But that, on a much bigger stage, is the art of the deal.
The Athens of Socrates, the Florence of da Vinci, the London of Shakespeare – these were impressive places, but none nearly as history-altering as the Philadelphia of the American rebels. On May 25, 1787 – 231 years ago Friday – the rebels began the convention that drafted the U.S. Constitution. It is the most readable, practical and liberating wonder of the world. We see the Constitution as a beginning for our country, but for the Founding Fathers it seemed like a last chance. A total of 55 delegates gathered from across our young nation with the mission, said Virginia’s Edmund Randolph, of “preventing the fulfillment of the prophecies of the American downfall.” The states were weak, trapped in hostile trade and border disputes with each other, encircled by European empires, and sunk in economic depression after eight years of the Revolutionary War. Over 100 sweltering summer days, in a room in the Pennsylvania State House cozy enough for conversational voices and filled with flies, the delegates jousted over every aspect of a new governmental structure. There was consensus on basics like the need for a limited government, divided into three branches. But what’s striking is how little the delegates agreed on. Should the executive be a single person, or a committee? Were citizens an enlightened repository of wisdom to be frequently consulted, or an unthinking mob to be tactfully restrained? Should each state get two senators, no matter its size? In the debate over that last question, the convention nearly broke up in anger. The framers of the Constitution were mostly eminent planters, merchants and lawyers. But in other respects they were a microcosm of our nation, then and now: they included alarmists, optimists, philosophers, bores, dealmakers, handwringers and comedians – like the 81-year-old Benjamin Franklin. Franklin won approval for the process of impeaching presidents by observing that without it, the sole method of premature removal was assassination. Some, like James Madison, rose to immortality. Others – like James Wilson, the Scottish-born genius who rivaled Madison in his influence, and who gave us the words “We the People” – died poor, diseased and alone, while fleeing creditors. What lessons does the Constitutional Convention offer today? For one thing, it serves as a bracing reminder that the supreme political achievement in American history was born of mutual concession, moderation and practicality. The Constitution is a jigsaw puzzle of compromises that left no delegate fully satisfied. Madison, the supposed “father” of the Constitution, was quite ready to disown paternity, grumbling in private that the final draft would fail to “answer its national object.” Yet Madison assented to Franklin’s closing plea: that every member who “may still have objections to it” – meaning virtually all of them – “would, with me on this occasion, doubt a little of his own infallibility” and suppress tolerable disagreements for a higher unity. Our fights in interpreting the Constitution, like the fights embodied in so many of the Constitution’s clauses, were inevitable. The founders bequeathed these to us, too, in the majestic ambiguities of the document’s 4,400 words. One of the most telling moments at the convention came when a delegate named Rufus King asked what precisely the framers meant in using the words “direct taxation” – no small question. Madison recorded: “No one answered.” The fight over that phrase, and 10,000 other textual conundrums, would be kicked to future generations. The founding era is often described as a golden age of brotherhood and unanimity. Hardly. Madison and Alexander Hamilton joined to compose the famed Federalist essays in order to urge New York’s ratifying convention to adopt the Constitution. It worked, barely: the Constitution was ratified in New York by a vote of 30-27. The Constitution won by similarly slim margins in Massachusetts and Virginia. But once the Constitution went into actual operation, Madison and Hamilton became enemies who went toe-to-toe on issue after issue – like the federal debt, a national bank and foreign affairs. Madison came to despise his old ally as a monarchist. Hamilton called Madison “perfidious.” The revolutionary triumph was to ensure that our constitutional clashes, which are really clashes over raw power, were resolved by lawyers making arguments instead of soldiers fighting battles; at dinner table disputes instead of in bloody street fights; and with declamations from newspapers instead of by raids on them. No people on Earth have sought so reverentially to apply the wisdom of their nation’s founders to the present day. We parse their words, recount their deeds, build monuments to them, name cities and streets after them, and study them in school from childhood to college. But the task is not to attempt to insert the founders into contemporary debates – usually with sentences beginning: “The founders would have said.” We have every reason to suspect that those titans would have had differing opinions on just about every issue today, as surely as they did over issues in their own time. We should instead confront our frictions in the best spirit of 1787 – a spirit of intelligence, creativity, compromise, high principle and a prophetic regard for the liberty of those to come. “We may well remind ourselves that there is not only a past and a present, there is also a future. And we are among its founders,” said Robert H. Jackson, later a Supreme Court justice, in 1937. We are rightly grateful to the framers of the Constitution. If they could peer down on us today, I think they would return the feeling. Nine generations of Americans have loyally preserved their handiwork, far longer than most of the delegates in Philadelphia dreamed possible. We today, no less than the founders themselves, are indispensable participants in the noblest adventure in freedom the world has ever known.
Hillary Clinton didn't win the presidency in 2016, so is there another job she would like to have? The former Democratic Party nominee considered the question Friday at Harvard University and said she would like to run Facebook. During an event at which she received the prestigious Radcliffe Medal for “transformative impact on society,” Clinton was asked which company she would like to lead as CEO. Without any hesitation, Clinton named Facebook, noting that the social media giant has vast power and controls the flow of information. “It’s the biggest news platform in the world … but most people in our country get their news, true or not, from Facebook,” she said. The response drew mixed reactions on social media, though the attempt to put her name on the table may not be so out of the ordinary. Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg openly endorsed Clinton’s candidacy while a co-founder of the social media giant, Dustin Moskovitz, led a nearly $30 million effort to defeat now-President Donald Trump. Other Facebook employees contributed more money to Clinton's campaign -- some $114,000 -- than to those of any other candidate, according to Federal Election Commission data that takes into account only donations over $200, the Hill reported. But the former U.S. secretary of state’s openness to run Facebook came at the time when the tech company is coping with a number of scandals, including alleged misuse of user data that allowed political campaigns, including possibly Clinton’s, to target potential voters after acquiring the data of millions of people. Just this week, Facebook was accused of deceptive tactics to pressure people to accept its privacy policy. According to a complaint filed by the European Center for Digital Rights on behalf of an anonymous individual, the platform blocked users who didn’t consent to the new privacy policies and used “tricks” – including fake message notifications – to pressure them into agreeing with the policies. “[Facebook] used additional ‘tricks’ to pressure the users: For example, the consent page included two fake red dots … that indicated that the user has new messages and notifications, which he/she cannot access without consenting — even if the user did not have such notifications or messages in reality,” the complaint reads, according to Australia's News.co.au. CLINTON CAMPAIGN APP MAY HAVE HARVESTED FACEBOOK DATA OF MILLIONS But similar to Cambridge Analytica, the company that was forced to shut down amid the data misuse scandal, the Clinton campaign itself may have harvested the data of potentially millions of users to get an edge over Trump. In the midst of the election, Clinton's campaign launched a mobile application called “Hillary 2016” that allowed every user to pair their friends list on Facebook with their phone contacts – and give the campaign permission to access that info. People who didn’t download the application - or weren’t even Clinton supporters – weren’t given an option to prohibit their Facebook friends from pairing their phone numbers with Facebook accounts and indicate their likelihood of voting for the Democratic candidate.
The current crisis in Italy is a great illustration of the perils of investing in a country simply because its market is 'on sale'. The idea of a 'value trap', an investment which is at low valuation but which still turns out to be a bad investment, applies to whole countries, not just individual companies. Italy was one of a small number of countries which have had starring roles in the European debt crisis which began in 2010, but arguably still continues to roil the continent's markets. This has placed Italian equity markets at bargain basement prices. But as anyone who has ever visited a bargain basement knows, not everything down in the cellar deserves to be bought: some of what is there has earned its way to the discount table. As of the beginning of this year, on a broad array of valuation measures, Italy was attractively valued with prices well below historic averages. As the chart below shows, at the beginning of the year investors who focused only on Italy's attractive valuation were rewarded. For a time. (The blue line is Italy, red is Global Dow. Courtesy of TradingView.) But things turned for the worse in May, when Italy's market plunged while FTSE's international index rallied, making Italy a significant underperformer. (The blue line is Italy, red is Global Dow. Courtesy of TradingView.) What happened? The Five Star Party revolt happened. The party is considered quasi-fascist by European elites, who are pretty quick to drop that accusation at anyone who is skeptical of the European Union -- and the Five Star Party and their partners, The League, are both pretty skeptical of the EU. Investors are clearly wary of the new coalition. But a principles-based approach to investing is based on being wary before the storm comes. The international equity index I work on, Vident Core International Equity Index (VIEQX), held Italy at an underweight both compared to our average country allocation and as a severe underweight compared to cap-weighted indices. That underweight was in place before the unexpected populist victory; before the big market sell-off. Why? Because Italy is not an economically resilient nation. It's demographically disastrous with a huge percentage of its population too old to work (or at least old enough to get government pensions so that they don’t need to work). That means that there is a demographic head-wind pushing against growth and towards deficits. Deficits are okay, when they're within certain limits and you have the kind of growth which allows the country to grow their way out of the debt (or at least to grow enough to stop the debt from growing its way out of the capacity of the economy to service it). But Italy is an extremely high-debt, low-growth, low-demographic-prospect-for-growth company. It has better than average scores on diversity because it has a relatively robust history. But its legal environment, demography, and fiscal control are way below average. Its level of productivity is below the mid-point on our index. It's a problematic country in many ways. Bottom line, at some point it might get low enough in price and might adopt enough growth policies to overcome the overall fragility of its economy. Thankfully, the coalition is talking about tax cuts. But it's also talking about increased welfare spending. As things stand, this nation is brittle -- that is, unable to be relied upon not to break when put under pressure. The new coalition has its work cut out for us, and the wise course of action is to make it prove itself to us, not with promises, but with actual growth policy achievements.
When country crooner Tanya Tucker lost her great love Glen Campbell to Alzheimer’s in 2017 at age 81, she took to music to cope — except his widow may not have been too thrilled. At the time, TMZ reported Kim Campbell, who was married to the singer for almost 35 years until his death, felt Tucker’s song about the Rhinestone Cowboy titled “Forever Loving You,” which she heavily promoted, was a “callous and disrespectful" move during a time of mourning. Tucker, 59, told Fox News Radio’s “Children of Song” podcast she meant no harm with her final goodbye to Campbell. “When I heard the song ‘Forever Loving You,’ I sort of rewrote it… with what I would say to Glen as my last love song to him,” she explained. “And it wasn’t to take away anything from his wife or his family. "I just wanted to bring some more awareness about it. About Alzheimer’s. And help out that way… I guess [his widow] wasn’t very happy with me, but I would think the more people loved somebody I loved, the better off we are. Bring the love!” Tucker and Campbell previously sang several duets together and dated on and off for several years before ending their romance in 1981. She admitted that Campbell’s death made her realize he really was the one who got away. “Time just exposed the fact that he was my true love,” she said. “He was the love of my life… If I had made a different choice, things might have turned out differently. And we probably would have still been together. [But] I was too young.” Campbell was 23 years older than Tucker. And she insisted there were many regrets about their relationship. “Every now and then I think about him in the cold ground and I think, ‘Wow, what a magnificent contribution he made,” she said. “Not just to music… But his contributions to people. I’ve never seen him turn an autograph down. "Never seen him raise his voice to anybody, as far as a fan. Well, to me a few times. [But] I raised it right back! But you know, he really did contribute to my life and it was some of the [best] three years that I’ll never, ever forget.” Listen to Tanya Tucker's entire "Children of Song" episode. You can download or stream the podcast from the Children of Song homepage or become a subscriber on Apple Podcasts, TuneIn, Google Play or Stitcher.
The Village Voice Editor-in-Chief Stephen Mooallem has quietly left the company, The Post has learned. The former executive editor of Harper’s Bazaar, who was hired in December 2016, exited in mid-March under what a company spokeswoman described as “amicable” terms. A successor has yet to be named, and currently the Voice news side is being run by a four-person team — senior editors Neil deMause and David Swanson, art director Ashley Smestad Vélez and copy editor Nina Pearlman. The exit comes at a volatile time for the former alternative news leader, which closed the free weekly print edition last August. Owner Peter Barbey has focused instead on the publication’s digital presence, but in a crowded landscape it has been difficult to retain its relevance. Mooallem was the Voice’s third editor under Barbey, who in early 2016 replaced top editor with Will Bourne, who ran the paper for eight months before getting the boot.
Judy Norton’s life forever changed in 1971 when she chose to appear in a new series that explored the life and trials of a ‘30s Virginia mountain family. That show was “The Waltons” and Norton starred as headstrong tomboy Mary Ellen. CANDICE BERGEN SHARES FIRST CAST PHOTO OF 'MURPHY BROWN' REBOOT However, the drama wasn’t instantly recognized as the iconic classic it is today. In fact, the show was on the dreaded “death block” and at risk of being canceled. “It was really the producers who went out and created a grassroots campaign, like taking out ads and doing interviews in the heartland, in Middle America, where we really found our audience,” Norton told Fox News. “Just really kind of pleading with people to watch the show and embrace it," she added. "And that was really the audience that formed the core… Those are our really loyal fans that continue to watch the show in reruns.” While "The Waltons" premiered poorly, it was quickly embraced by audiences for its family values. “It took the whole season to find our audience and get them onboard,” said the 60-year-old. “People then loved it and stayed loyal for nine years. In today’s world, a show might get maybe 3-6 episodes to test it. "And it’s even harder now because there’s so much competition today. A show could be gone before you even knew it existed. So we were in a very fortunate time in television where we were given that opportunity to stick around long enough for an audience to find us.” Norton's role Mary Ellen hit close to home. “I did relate to aspects of my character,” she explained. “I was very much into sports, and I loved the rebellious, non-conforming characteristics of Mary Ellen… And we were telling these universal stories that although it was set in the ‘30s and ‘40s, the stories were about… bringing out the best in people. "I was really proud, and we all were, to be representing something for families… It’s really an honor when you’re creating a fictional show that changes people’s lives. That’s what I love about this industry. There’s always potential to do that to influence people’s lives. I always felt a sense of responsibility to try to make that a positive experience.” “The Waltons” ran from 1971 until 1981. It still lives on in reruns and it continues to inspired longtime fans of the show. Norton insisted she always felt a sense of responsibility in being recognized as Mary Ellen. “I always wanted to try harder because I knew people were looking up to me,” she said. “And that meant something to me. I’m still always learning how to grow and improve myself because I want to be the best possible role model.” However, life on the mountain had plenty of bumps on the road. Norton admitted that while “The Waltons” allowed Mary Ellen to age in the show, it wasn’t always easy depicting someone you could easily identify with as a child actor. “I was able to navigate those really awkward years while I was working on the series,” she said. “At times it was difficult as an actor because as I was going through those angst-ridden years, they were also being reflected in the story that was being told… So at times I felt, ‘Oh goodness, my life is on display and this is really making me feel self-conscious.’ All those things made it a wonderful show, but sometimes it was uncomfortable to go portray that.” And once “The Waltons” was over, she did endure one challenge many former child stars are often faced with in Hollywood. “That’s why I was grateful to go back into theater because… you’re typecast,” said Norton. “It’s just an unfortunate fact of this business. So I went back to my roots, which was theater, where I got a lot of roles that were different than what I might be playing on television. "So, once I figured out that I shouldn’t be worried about the doors that were closed, I looked for the doors that would open. It made my path easier and I was always looking to find ways to reinvent myself.” Norton shocked fans when she chose to strip down and shed her good girl image for a 1985 Playboy spread. It's a decision she came to regret. “I was getting a lot of advice from people who were representing me at the time,” Norton recalled. “They felt it would be a good, positive career move. I wouldn’t say that was the case and it’s one of those things that if I knew then what I know now, I wouldn’t have made the choice. "I learned a lot of lessons from it, in terms of trusting my own instincts and decisions more than other people’s, even though it seemed like they knew more than me. Ultimately, I’m the one that had to live with a difficult decision to make at the time. It is what it is. You can only go forward.” But life is different these days for Norton. She recently wrote, produced and starred in a new psychological thriller titled “Inclusion Criteria.” It’s a new chapter she happily dived into. “My character Tara is a painter, a longer, an introvert,” said Norton. “And then she starts experiencing concerning and disturbing phenomenon in her world… And she doesn’t know if she’s literally going crazy because her mother has, or if someone is stalking or manipulating her for some unknown, sinister reason… There was a lot of acting and emotional demands to it. And she’s also different from other characters I typically played. But I wanted that challenge to stretch myself outside of my comfort zone.” Norton said that getting older has only inspired her more to work both in front and behind the camera. “I guess at my core, I’m an artist,” said Norton. “And so the opportunity to utilize my imagination, create things and share stories is what makes me happy and fulfills me… It wasn’t until many years after ‘The Waltons’ when I had gone back to theater that I had the opportunity to take on a role within a theater company as a writer and director. I found to my surprise that I really enjoyed it as well. "And as you get older as a woman, there are fewer roles. So it can be a bit challenging to stay satisfied as an actor. As a writer, [my] age, sex, how I looked – it didn’t matter…. It was a great training route to hone my storytelling skills.” Norton revealed she has received praise for “Inclusion Criteria” not only from curious viewers, but from her “Waltons” cast mates. “They are my family,” said Norton. “I love them. We’re super close. It was a very special bond that we still share, even though it’s been 40 years since the show went off the air… But we just thought it was normal to love each other this much. And that was really the best part of all those years. The people that I got to work with.” "Inclusion Criteria" is currently available on DVD.
The Smithsonian National Museum in Washington, D.C., and Sports Illustrated model Kathy Ireland have something in common. Both have displayed the award-winning American Indian artwork of Peggy Fontenot, one of the 1,500 members of the Patawomeck Tribe of Virginia. “It’s history is with Pocahontas, John Smith and Jamestown,” Fontenot, who now lives in California, tells Watchdog.org. In her more than three decades as an artist, Fontenot’s photography and jewelry have been shown, sold, worn and won awards all over the country. But under a new law in Oklahoma — a state that is home to some of America’s richest Indian history and culture — Fontenot is prohibited from calling herself or her work “Native American.” That, according to a federal civil rights lawsuit filed Nov. 22 by the Pacific Legal Foundation against the Oklahoma attorney general, violates Fontenot’s free-speech rights under the U.S. Constitution. “Peggy is a member of a state-recognized tribe, the Patawomeck in Virginia,” explains PLF lead counsel Caleb Trotter. “She is objectively and factually an American Indian and she should be able to call herself that whenever she’s in Oklahoma or Rhode Island or Virginia or wherever.” (See related PLF video here.) The Oklahoma law took effect in August. It amended the 1974 American Indian Arts and Crafts Sales Act to restrict the definition of “Native American” and Native American-made products to members of federally recognized tribes. Since many tribes, such as the Patawomeck are recognized only by certain states, Fontenot and those like her can sell their wares in Oklahoma, but they cannot market them as Native American made, nor can they discuss their heritage while selling. The law drew strong support from the powerful and politically connected Cherokee Nation and four other prominent Oklahoma tribes — the Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee (Creek) and Seminole. Cherokee Principal Chief Bill John Baker wrote in April that “the issue is important for us because it ensures people who falsely claim tribal citizenship will not be able to market themselves and their crafts as native.” Cherokee Nation Chief of Staff Chuck Hoskin echoed Baker’s concern in a statement emailed to Watchdog. “We must be vigilant against impostors and fraudulent marketing. Unsuspecting consumers have purchased fraudulent Indian art in the past here in Oklahoma,” Hoskin wrote.”People who falsely claim to be Native or say they are citizens of tribes not recognized in Oklahoma or by the federal government hurt the Indian Art industry.” Trotter questions this premise, as the state already has a general ‘truth in advertising’ law to address such fraud. “I’m sure it happens — but to address this problem [Oklahoma lawmakers] have just gone way overboard and had the effect of carving out the Oklahoma market solely for their members and citizens to the exclusion of everybody else,” he said. “Whether intentional or not, it has had a protectionist effect and gone way beyond the bounds of what a constitutional way of doing this would.” In addition to serving as an elected member of the Cherokee Nation Tribal Council, Hoskin is also an elected member of the Oklahoma House of Representatives, and primary sponsor of the Indian art law. In March, his son, Chuck Hoskin Jr., was unanimously reconfirmed to a second term as Cherokee Nation Secretary of State. The law’s sponsor in the senate, Sen. John Sparks, is also an enrolled member of the Cherokee Nation. Followthemoney.org shows Sparks has received $26,500 in campaign donations from the Cherokee and Chickasaw Nations, while Rep. Hoskin has collected more than $47,000 in tribal campaign contributions. The right kind of tribe For all the debate about who is a real Indian or a real Oklahoman, none of the tribes supporting the law are native to Oklahoma. All were driven there under duress in the 19th century by a federal government that now has laws in place to protect members of both federally and state-recognized tribes. “This issue is who is a real Indian and who is not a real Indian,” she said. “I can call myself ‘Indian’ all day long and I can identify as an Indian, but when I qualify myself as an Indian artist, I am protected under the federal law, just not the law in Oklahoma.” The 1990 Indian Arts and Crafts Act protects the rights of American Indian artists no matter what the recognizing entity is, or if they’re certified as an artisan by an Indian tribe. “All Peggy wants to do is truthfully market and describe her art as American Indian made,” Trotter said. “Just because she’s not a member of the ‘right’ kind of tribe in Oklahoma, she’s precluded from telling people who she is in the context of selling or describing her art.” In addition to the First Amendment challenge, Fontenot raises four other constitutional claims — the Supremacy, Commerce, Equal Protection and Due Process clauses. “This state law limits Peggy’s right to earn a living,” Trotter said. “The federal law specifically sets up three separate categories of people who qualify to market and label their art American Indian made. But Oklahoma has decided that, ‘No no. We’re going to cut out two-thirds of those groups that federal law permits and create just in Oklahoma, this one little market.’” In a resolution adopted this fall, the National Congress of American Indians condemned the law, citing the civil rights violations alleged in Fontenot’s lawsuit. The NCAI also warned that if the law is not challenged in Oklahoma, “other states may consider similarly oppressive legislation.” Fontenot says regardless of any good intentions on the part of Oklahoma, the law is little more than identity theft. “I live my life as a Native American,” she says. “I identify with that side of my heritage. I’ve raised my daughter as a Native American. I’m a Native American artist and I’ve been selling my work as Native American for 33 years.”
LOS ANGELES (AP) — Diahann Carroll recalls a date with Marlon Brando that yielded a slap and career advice. Robert Adler tells how he co-invented the TV remote control. Walter Cronkite shares his dismay over learning that White House pressure trimmed a CBS report on Watergate. Their accounts are part of an extraordinary collection of 4,000-plus hours of video Q&As recorded over more than two decades by the Television Academy Foundation, the philanthropic arm of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, organizer of the prime-time Emmy Awards. On Wednesday, a new website will make some 800 interviews — and more to come — available free to all comers, who can watch complete interviews or search the curated treasure trove by individuals, shows, events, professions, themes and more. Even such minutiae as the origin of TV catchphrases including "Come on down!" from "The Price is Right" is there. The Interviews: An Oral History of Television (TelevisionAcademy.com/Interviews) is a browser's delight. You can listen to producer Chris Carter's account of making "The X-Files," or hone in on how he cast Gillian Anderson and David Duchovny. "The arrangement is key," said archive director Jenni Matz. "I've done research at the Library of Congress where they just point to a box and say, 'Dig.' What we've done is we've really dug through it for you, and we've sifted it and sorted it out and made it accessible and searchable." Some of the interviews, including those done in the early years on videotape and gradually digitized, were available online at Emmy TV Legends, which is being replaced by the new site. "We are living in a digital, sound-bite world, and I believe that we are enjoying a second golden age of television," said Madeline Di Nonno, foundation chair. "It's really critical that as the leading industry organization for television we stay relevant" and accessible to all, especially younger generations. Judd Apatow is an unabashed archive fan. "I just love it," the producer-writer ("Freaks and Geeks," ''Girls") said, calling its in-depth, hours-long interviews the "definitive record of people's careers and their feeling about it and approach to their work." For a new documentary on the late Garry Shandling, Apatow licensed footage from what he called a "fantastic" interview the comedian recorded for the collection. Such commercial use is one source of the money needed to preserve and expand the archive. The website was the mid-1990s vision of industry leaders including Dean Valentine and Thomas W. Sarnoff, who believed that first-person accounts of TV as a business, a creative medium and the national town hall deserved to be saved and, ultimately, made readily available to scholars, aspiring industry members or anyone with an interest in what TV is and who makes it. "For my money, this project is the single most important contribution that certainly the foundation and maybe even the academy, aside from the Emmys, makes to the industry," Sarnoff said. The archive has its roots in another, deeply somber one: the Shoah project, a University of Southern California-housed repository of meticulously cross-referenced interviews with Holocaust survivors and witnesses founded in 1994 by Steven Spielberg. There is no comparison between ensuring a record of Nazi inhumanity and the story of an industry, Valentine said, but it brought home what the passing of TV's founders meant. "With their loss, memories of what happened in the early days of television and the creative ferment would be gone, too," he said. He took his idea for a TV archive to Rich Frank, then president of the TV academy, and to Sarnoff, who was foundation chairman. Sarnoff, now 91, had a particular reason to value the medium's history: his father, David Sarnoff, pioneered the development of TV and created NBC, the first broadcasting network. In 1996, the foundation taped six "pilot" interviews — industry lingo for an episode used to decide if a TV project passes muster. The subjects demonstrate the archive's wide range from the start: comedian Milton Berle; ABC founder Leonard Goldenson; makeup artist Dick Smith; Elma "Pem" Farnsworth, widow of TV technology inventor Philo Farnsworth; producer Sheldon Leonard; and casting director and network executive Ethel Winant. Subjects can edit their comments but rarely do more than correct factual errors, Matz said. Unexpected stories abound in the archives, such as Diahann Carroll's account of a Los Angeles dinner out with the young but already renowned Brando when she was building her career. As they left the restaurant he gave her a "little whack" on her rear. "I turned around and gave him a whack right across his jaw," she recounted. He followed up the next day with a gesture of apology, sending her a selection of important books on acting and calling to encourage Carroll to "get out of this town," go back to New York and focus on her craft — which is what the Emmy- and Oscar-nominated Carroll did. From the start, Sarnoff said, people were honored to contribute to the archive and were candid in return. "They realized they were being interviewed for history, and they told us everything they could." ___ Lynn Elber can be reached at lelber@ap.org and on Twitter at http://twitter.com/elber
A dog sits on her owner's lap as they wait outside Windsor Castle ahead of the dress rehearsal for the wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. Getty Images
A Facebook user found out just how valuable personal data can be when he auctioned off his social media history on eBay this week. The bid started at 99 cents and climbed to nearly $400 before it was shut down by the e-commerce site a day later. Oli Frost, a writer and developer from the U.K., encouraged people to buy his personal information on Monday, which included every like, post and comment he’s made since age 16; his listed interests, his friends list, event invitations and a family tree, among other things. “Everyone else’s making money off it, so why shouldn’t I? Sell it to advertisers or whatever you want,” Frost said in a blog post detailing the sale. He only had one rule: Don’t steal his identity.The bidding was supposed to conclude on June 3, at which Frost said he’d give the lucky winner a flash drive of all the data, downloaded through Facebook’s data export tool under account settings. He planned to donate the earnings to the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit digital rights group. Within 24 hours, Frost reached a total of 44 bidders and earned a minimum of nearly $400 before his listing was removed on Tuesday for violating Facebook’s terms of service. A post shared by Oli Frost (@realolifrost) on May 29, 2018 at 12:07pm PDT “Your listing is selling an account for Facebook, which is not permitted as most social networking companies have limitations in their terms of service that restrict the artificial boosting of another member’s following or popularity, or the sale of accounts with established followings,” eBay explained in a message to Frost, according to Gizmodo. “Given that, eBay as a company has decided not to allow listings that would facilitate or promote this type of activity. While we appreciate that you have chosen to utilize our site, we must ask that you please not relist this type of service.” Frost was shocked when he was told he couldn’t control his own information, especially following a scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm that worked on then-candidate Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. The now shuttered group got its hands on the personal information of 87 million Facebook users. At a tech conference earlier this week, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg said the social network still isn’t sure what data Cambridge Analytica accessed. “My mistake, I was under the impression I owned my personal data,” Frost commented on his website. Facebook, which has over 2 billion monthly active users, depends on its users spending significant amounts of time on the service, which is roughly 90 percent supported by ad revenue. According to a recent survey, the majority of Facebook users in the U.S. continue to use the social media platform despite the data breach. In fact, roughly 75 percent of Facebook users said they use “it more” or “haven’t changed how much I used it,” a Reuters/Ipsos poll released in May revealed. Fox News’ Chris Ciaccia contributed to this report.
Judge accepts $1M opening bid for Gawker site Gawker took its first tentative steps toward being revived when a bankruptcy judge on Tuesday accepted a $1 million opening bid for the gossipy website that went dark in 2016.... Shari Redstone claims CBS director grabbed her face during argument The epic boardroom battle between Shari Redstone and CBS got physical when a director at the broadcasting giant manhandled the 64-year-old media heiress, according to fresh courtroom allegations. In a... Read these stories on happiness, parenting and Philip Roth New York puts on a happy face to tout “the most popular course at Yale” — Psychology and the Good Life — but the Cliffs Notes that pass for the... It's time to jump on a motorcycle and get out of town Memorial Day just came and went. That means it’s time to polish those Hogs, ink up those biceps and hit the highways. But not before, of course, grabbing a couple... News anchor, cameraman killed when tree topples onto van A television news anchor and his cameraman died in North Carolina on Monday when a tree fell onto their SUV, officials said. Mike McCormick and photojournalist Aaron Smeltzer, of NBC... Sarah Palin’s son wants to bar media from assault proceedings ANCHORAGE, Alaska — The eldest son of former Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin is seeking to bar the media from covering court hearings after he was accused of assaulting... Live Nation investor withdraws suit over executive bonuses A Live Nation investor who accused the concert promoter of handing out $11 million in unwarranted bonuses withdrew her lawsuit on Friday. Sources said investor Shiva Stein canceled a hearing... Epiris reveals new name for Time Inc. UK Two months after London-based Epiris paid about $167 million to acquire Time Inc. UK from Meredith Corp., a new name is being unveiled for the group — TI Media. The... You'll be seeing a lot more Keith Olbermann on ESPN Keith Olbermann is expanding his role at ESPN — but it was nearly even bigger. The largest aspect of Olbermann’s expanded role with ESPN is that he will co-host around...
Liberals might be howling, but this championship hat’s a winner. After two nail-biting series that went the full seven games in the NBA conference finals, victory celebrations by the Cleveland Cavaliers and Golden State Warriors over the weekend were getting attention around the country from people who might never have watched a basketball game in their lives. And it had nothing to do with the teams shooting on the court. Thanks to the design of a commemorative cap for the occasion, which featured a team logo placed onto generic “NBA Finals” wording, it appeared to many social media users that the teams were headed to a championship series produced by the National Rifle Association. Looks like the @NBA was smart to make generic Finals hats. All they had to do now is glue on the winning team's patch. Only problem is that it looks like 2018 NRA Finals lol. #NRA #LeBron pic.twitter.com/iOayXOTUCv — William Weske (@WilliamWeske) May 28, 2018 TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover Easily triggered liberals, naturally, started crying foul. Needs a redo! — Cicely Hand (@cichand) May 29, 2018 They’re overreacting, as usual, of course. The team’s logo just covers up the bottom of the “B,” making it look like a capital “R.” Anyone but a “progressive” should be able to see the humor in the situation. Would you want to buy an "NRA Finals" cap? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. The NBA is rife with loud-mouthed liberals — particularly Cavaliers star LeBron James — who’s better known for left-leaning clothing and accessories like preachy sneakers and virtue-signaling safety pins than Second Amendment-supporter hats. Meanwhile, Warriors coach Steve Kerr is an outspoken critic of President Donald Trump. The mainstream media also gives him a platform to blast the NRA routinely, and often with the introductory note that Kerr’s father was killed by “gun violence.” (The odd thing about that is that Kerr’s father was assassinated by Hezbollah killers while serving as president of American University in Beirut in 1984, according to USA Today. Only a hideously slanted mainstream media could blame that on “gun violence.” And besides, has anyone heard Steve Kerr denouncing radical Muslims lately?) But while liberals were moaning, normal people were getting a kick out of the hats. Very American , the membership has gone up,by 1million since David Hogg puppet, the greatest gun salesman since obama. — Brian0 (@Brianbr9164) May 30, 2018 RELATED: NRA Contributions Swamp Anti-Gun PAC’s Fundraising by More Than 150% Anyone know where I can get one of these “NRA Finals” hats. Look pretty dope — Woogedy Boogedy (@JasonLa63831164) May 29, 2018 He’s not the only one who likes the look. According to Sporting News, the Warriors are the overwhelming favorite to defeat the Cavaliers when they repeat their 2017 championship series (Game 1 tips off Thursday). But no matter who comes out on top, this hat’s already a winner. Correction: This post originally gave the incorrectly home city for the Golden State Warriors. They’re based in Oakland. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
On Thursday, President Donald Trump signed legislation rolling back some of the lending restrictions enacted in response to the housing boom and bust. While the new law doesn’t entirely do away with those financial reforms, it does have some significant implications for home buyers. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposed stricter rules around lending for both borrowers and lenders, in an attempt to shut down the careless mortgage lending that laid the groundwork for the housing crash. Critics, however, have said that these stricter rules have made it too difficult for anyone to get a loan, hobbling the real estate market. The new law aims to open up access to credit by loosening regulations on small- and medium-size banks. Since the new law doesn’t change the rules for the largest banks, it shouldn’t make the financial system much riskier than it is now. Here’s what home buyers should know: 1. Alternative credit-scoring models could help those without traditional credit files The reform law encourages Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to explore alternative credit score models. Research shows that 26 million American adults don’t have credit history with one of the three nationwide credit-reporting companies and that black, Hispanic, and low-income consumers are more likely to be part of this “credit invisible” group. New models could use data left out of current models, such as rent payments, that might help lenders evaluate the creditworthiness of more would-be borrowers. 2. Looser underwriting rules could make mortgages more plentiful Loans from lenders with less than $10 billion in assets would be exempt from some of the Dodd-Frank mortgage underwriting standards, as long as they hold onto the loans rather than selling them. While this should encourage lenders to lend, not all of them are willing to hold loans in portfolio. But as mortgage rates rise, banks may become more willing to take on some portfolio loans, opening up more options for borrowers. 3. Reducing the number of lenders subject to HMDA reporting could encourage more lending Ever since the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, financial institutions had to meet certain standards for location, asset size, and other metrics to determine whether they were required to report characteristics of loan applications and their outcomes. This reporting meant extra paperwork and costs for the lender. One of the tests was the number of home purchase loans or first-lien refinance loans that the institution originated. Depending on the type of institution, reporting requirements could be triggered by as few as one to 25 loans over the past year. The new rule raises this requirement to 500 loans in each of the two previous calendar years. This should reduce the reporting and costs for small-scale lenders, and hopefully make them more willing to make those mortgage loans—another win for home buyers. Of course, this may have an impact on the quantity of data gathered as a result of HMDA. This has been useful to researchers seeking to understand the housing finance market, and particularly the degree to which lenders are serving needs in their communities, especially among underserved populations. The new law requests that a study be conducted to assess the impact of this reform on the amount of data available. Credit freezes—and unfreezes—are now free One last change the law makes is a requirement that credit-reporting agencies enable consumers to freeze and unfreeze their credit without charge. With 143 million individuals affected by the Equifax data breach alone, limiting the damage data leaks can do to your credit is important for everyone, but particularly home shoppers who are going to rely on their credit score to help them qualify for a mortgage. After checking to make sure everything is correct, home shoppers can freeze their credit until they are ready to work with a lender. This will help ensure that when it comes time to apply for a mortgage, there shouldn’t be any major surprises.
The last hurdle to the sale of a money-hemorrhaging government broadband project in Virginia to a private provider was finally cleared recently, paving the way for rural broadband expansion in the southwest part of the state. The Virginia Coalfield Coalition voted earlier this month to approve a contract transfer of Bristol-Virginia Utilities’ broadband division to Sunset Digital Communications of Duffield, Virginia. The telecom providers will acquire BVU’s OptiNet for $50 million, far short of the approximately $130 million that taxpayers forked over to build the network initially. The path to the sale has been a long and cumbersome process, taking more than a year to complete due to some disputes from various government agencies about fulfilling the terms of grants used to build OptiNet. First, Virginia Assistant Attorney General Liz Myers issued an opinion that BVU had the right to negotiate the sale of OptiNet without going through the Virginia Procurement Act, a law that requires government entities to seek bids when buying or selling goods and services. But then Cumberland Plateau Co. (CPC), a nonprofit corporation created in 1979 to help facilitate economic growth in southwest Virginia, expressed reservations about four counties in its service area – Buchanan, Dickerson, Russell and Tazewell – that were part of the sale. Sunset Digital co-owners Paul and Ryan Elswick, father and son, met with staff members of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) in Washington, D.C. last year to discuss the concerns. Those agencies and the Virginia Tobacco Revitalization Commission provided the grant funding for the part of the sale in dispute. Sunset Digital had to provide information showing how the company would fulfill the initial terms of grants and maintain the existing BVU network to get approval from the EDA and NTIA. “They don’t want the assets they created to die on the vine, which makes sense,” Ryan Elswick told Watchdog.org last November. CPC also met with those federal agencies and wanted to get the OK from D.C. before signing off on the sale. The Virginia Coalfield Coalition, of which CPC is a part, voted on Aug. 2 to approve the transfer of a tower backhaul contract from BVU to Sunset Digital, the last local approval needed for the BVU purchase. “We are grateful for the trust these entities have put in us to now move forward with our plan to expand broadband accessibility to Southwest Virginia. It will create more jobs, more opportunities and stronger future for our home region,” Paul Elswick said. Bristol city leaders expressed disgust in June they wouldn’t get any of the money from the proceeds. A 2009 agreement between Bristol and BVU stipulated they would split any proceeds from the sale of OptiNet once all debts were satisfied, but this sale doesn’t come close to satisfying those debts. For example, the Virginia Tobacco Revitalization Commission provided $30 million to create the network, but will only get back $8.7 million, while the EDA gets a return of $1.23 million on its $7.3 million buy-in. The failure of OptiNet, launched in 2002, is one of the case studies in the folly of government-owned networks. That broadband division made Taxpayers Protection Alliance’s list of broadband boondoggles. In other areas, municipal networks want to expand outside their legally permissible coverage zones, and lawmakers in several states have tried in vain to change laws to make that happen. Free-market advocates worry that municipal network expansion could push out private providers by discouraging them from competing with government broadband and its nearly limitless resource of taxpayer cash. But in southwest Virginia, the opposite is happening – and the sale of BVU to Sunset Digital could be a boon for rural residents. Sunset Digital hopes to expand high-speed internet to some 10,000 customers in southwest Virginia the next five years, focusing first on high-density areas to benefit the greatest number of residents. Download speeds will range from 10 megabits per second up to 1 gigabit per second. Counties that will be included in the expansion include Bland, Buchanan, Dickenson, Lee, Russell, Smyth, Tazewell, Washington, Wise and Wythe counties. The sale will also create 50 additional jobs for the internet expansion. Paul Elswick pointed out to Watchdog that BVU never felt comfortable expanding broadband far outside Bristol because of political pressure. “It was politically untenable to spend [city money] to connect people who weren’t in the city,” he said. It also didn’t help that two former vice presidents of the utility got prison sentences for various financial crimes, including falsifying invoices and money laundering. BVU marketing director Sharon Kyser previously said the sale made business sense for Sunset Digital because BVU had the existing infrastructure in place. “This gives OptiNet as a private company the chance to service those underserved areas,” Kyser said. Sunset Digital now serves about 90,000 customers, most of which are wholesale customers who buy internet from the company to resell it to residents and businesses in southwest Virginia and northeast Tennessee.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Incontrovertible fact: People lie. They fudge little things, like their height or weight. They exaggerate their athletic prowess or professional accomplishments. They deceive family, friends, lovers, voters, government officials, business partners and themselves. They lie about murder, theft, kidnapping, rape and discrimination. They lie for attention, deflection, power and profit. Often, the reasons for manufacturing devastating fables are indiscernible or unfathomable. But this much is clear: If there are no consequences for lying about crime, false accusations will continue to ruin the lives of innocents -- poor and rich, black and white, liberal and conservative, civilian and cop. According to the University of Michigan Law School's National Registry of Exonerations, 2,224 innocent criminal defendants since 1989 have been cleared of all charges in their cases. The average prison term served by exonerees is 14 years. In total, wrongful convictions have cost exonerees 19,610 years of freedom since 1982. Wrongful convictions are based on a rotten foundation of lies and untruths constructed by a village of false accusers, including jailhouse snitches, biased investigators, corrupt crime lab analysts, faulty eyewitnesses, and ruthless prosecutors acting in bad faith. John Bunn, wrongfully convicted of assault and murder when he was just 14 years old, is just one of more than a dozen innocent citizens who became entangled in New York Police Department Det. Louis Scarcella's nefarious web of deception. The infamous cop falsified evidence, suppressed evidence and coerced false confessions to ensure convictions and bolster his career as part of what one judge called a "pattern and practice" of misconduct demonstrating "disregard for rules, law, and the truth." Bunn and co-defendant Rosean Hargrave, became the 12th and 13th exonerees who had been targeted by Scarcella, just this month. Daryl Fulton and Nevest Coleman each served nearly a quarter-century behind bars for a 1997 rape and murder of a woman in Chicago they did not commit. They endured physical abuse by detectives with a long history of coercing false confessions. Fulton and Coleman were released last November and granted certificates of actual innocence two months ago after post-conviction DNA testing and reinvestigation by the Cook County Conviction Integrity Unit cleared them -- and instead implicated a repeat sexual offender who lived near the victim. Famed private attorney Kathleen Zellner, the most successful exoneration specialist in the nation, recently filed a civil rights lawsuit on Fulton's behalf. She has won landmark settlements on behalf of exonerees Ryan Ferguson, wrongfully convicted of murder in Missouri, and former Washington state police officer Ray Spencer, wrongfully convicted of sexually molesting his own children -- the result of lies told by a vengeful ex-wife who was having an affair with a conniving police detective overseeing the investigation. Despite a complete lack of physical evidence, forensic evidence or corroborating witnesses, New Yorkers VanDyke Perry and Gregory Counts served 11 years and 26 years respectively for an alleged gang rape in 1992. Their convictions, vacated just this month, were based solely on the account of a woman who recanted years later and blamed a boyfriend for pressuring her into making it all up. The liar will face no charges because the statute of limitations has expired. Question: If accusers can level rape and other claims decades after a purported crime occurs, why shouldn't the statute of limitations on prosecuting lies about crimes and seeking civil redress against all enablers be extended proportionally, too? This summer, I'll dedicate a special series of columns and CRTV.com videos to false allegations against innocent men and women of all backgrounds. And I'll continue my investigative reporting on the ongoing wrongful conviction nightmare of Asian-American and former Oklahoma City police officer Daniel Holtzclaw, which was built on a super-sized Jenga tower of police bias, investigative incompetence, prosecutorial misconduct, media malpractice, pre-trial publicity-stoked mob rule, forensic failures and unprecedented courtroom secrecy. Incontrovertible reality: These travesties happen in Democratic-controlled big cities and the rural South alike; by bad cops and to good cops; at the hands of white and black prosecutors, judges and ill-trained experts and investigators of all stripes. What's shocking is not that these injustices are routine, but that public amnesia sets in every time accusers level sensational allegations of crimes in the court of public opinion before all the facts are known. Witness the knee-jerk social media conviction of innocent white Texas state trooper Daniel Hubbard by anti-cop advocate and former New York Daily News columnist Shaun King, who spread uncritically the false claims of a black woman who lied about Hubbard raping her during a traffic stop. The admitted liar, Sherita Dixon-Cole, will not be prosecuted based on a technicality. Incredibly, King is reportedly moving on to a job with the Harvard-affiliated Fair Punishment Project, which in part conducts research to prevent more wrongful convictions. Reform begins with confronting, instead of denying, reality. The cure for ignorance is exposure. Bias of all kinds destroys lives. People lie about everything under the sun. Women do lie about rape. Judges, prosecutors and police are not infallible. The system does fail. The good news is that each of us is capable of helping amend and avert these wrongs. The bad news is that no one is ever safe.
Victoria’s Secret may dip its toe back into the swimsuit business, after all. The struggling lingerie giant’s wishy-washy executives admitted to Wall Street analysts on Thursday they were considering backtracking on a controversial decision to exit swimwear in 2016. “There is discussion about bringing back swim from time to time,” Stuart Burgdoerfer, chief financial officer of Victoria’s Secret owner L Brands, said on a conference call. That’s despite the fact that swimsuits were even less profitable for the chain than bras and panties. Just a few months ago, management had said its teen-focused Pink chain would stop selling swimsuits within a year. “I believe there is some internal debate about swimwear,” Citi analyst Paul Lejuez, who had raised the question on Thursday’s call, told The Post. “Several senior executives would like to bring it back.” Lejuez noted that the company has recently backtracked on previous decisions to get rid of promotional mailers. Meanwhile, its catalog was brought back as a so-called “magalog” just two weeks ago. “They underestimated the impact swimsuits had on bringing people to their stores,” said A-Line Partners founder Gabriella Santaniello. “It was a reason for customers to shop in the stores in the spring and summer, and now they are trying to achieve the same sales number with promotions.” The chain’s pricey constructed push-up bras, which can run upwards of $50, have been losing ground to comfier bralettes from rivals like American Eagle Outfitters’ lower-priced Aerie brand. The chain also has gotten dinged by the #MeToo movement for its overreliance on sexy models to sell intimates.
Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani is setting “red lines” for Robert Mueller in talks over a possible interview between the president and special counsel, telling Fox News on Thursday they want access to “everything” on the FBI’s informant during the 2016 campaign as well as the “scope” memo setting the terms of the Russia probe. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, previously has said they won’t grant an interview with President Trump unless the legal team gets access to all files regarding the informant, who was in contact with at least three members of the Trump campaign. But Giuliani told Fox News on Thursday that Mueller will have to meet two conditions for an interview to take place: Provide access to the “spygate” files as well as the memo penned by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein outlining Mueller’s authority in the special counsel probe. Republicans on Capitol Hill for months have sought the full version of that memo, though a redacted version was made public. Mueller’s team also has given a copy to the federal judge overseeing the case against former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort. GIULIANI SAYS HE'S COUNSELED TRUMP AGAINST FIRING SESSIONS Asked by Fox News if those two conditions are “red lines,” Giuliani said they definitely are. Giuliani also pushed back on reports that the legal team is doing “prep sessions” at the White House for a possible Trump interview with Mueller’s team. He said the legal team, rather, has been discussing with Trump the ground rules for a possible interview as well as daily developments pertaining to the case. Giuliani, though, said they will likely conduct some prep sessions with Trump, even if they decide against an interview -- because the legal team will have to write a report in response to Mueller’s findings, and they want to make sure they have a detailed account from the president. Meanwhile, Giuliani took issue with recent comments on Fox News by Republican Rep. Trey Gowdy. Earlier this week, the House oversight committee chairman argued that the FBI acted properly in its use of an informant to root out possible Russian meddling in the 2016 race. “I am even more convinced that the FBI did exactly what my fellow citizens would want them to do when they got the information they got,” Gowdy said on “The Story with Martha MacCallum” on Tuesday, adding that the move had “nothing to do with Donald Trump.” Giuliani voiced skepticism at those remarks. “How could there not have been spying?” Giuliani asked, while questioning whether Gowdy saw all the documents related to the informant. Gowdy was part of a high-level briefing last week with DOJ and FBI officials regarding the informant. Giuliani, speaking with Fox News on Thursday, also voiced concern about his client’s resumption of criticism against Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia probe. Trump took to Twitter on Wednesday to say he wishes he had named another attorney general. Giuliani said he wasn’t happy that Trump was going after Sessions again, expressing concern that the move could take focus away from the scrutiny on FBI conduct in 2016 and other issues.
A surprise meeting Saturday between North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in shows the two are working hard to resurrect a much more important summit between Kim and President Trump, just two days after the U.S. president cancelled it. The Trump-Kim summit, designed to discuss U.S. demands that North Korea get rid of its nuclear weapons and agree not to build new ones, had been scheduled for June 12 in Singapore. However, President Trump cancelled the historic meeting – the first ever by an American president and a North Korean leader. He wrote in a letter to Kim Thursday that the meeting would be “inappropriate” following North Korean expressions of “tremendous anger and open hostility” to the United States. But after the North responded with a conciliatory statement – free of its usual anti-American insults and saber-rattling – that it hoped talks could still be held, President Trump tweeted Friday night: "We are having very productive talks with North Korea about reinstating the Summit which, if it does happen, will likely remain in Singapore on the same date, June 12th., and, if necessary, will be extended beyond that date." Will there be a summit between President Trump and Kim? It all depends on Kim. All the photo-ops, hugs and warm gestures in the world aren’t going to solve the North Korea crisis. Kim needs to show he is serious about moving toward denuclearization. What nearly brought the U.S. and North Korea to the brink of war last year on multiple occasions was Kim’s growing nuclear weapons arsenal, coupled with the North’s long-range missiles that could carry the nukes to the U.S. homeland – potentially killing millions of Americans. Our allies South Korea and Japan would be far easier targets for a horrific nuclear attack by neighboring North Korea. Preventing North Korea from starting a nuclear war that could be the most devastating conflict in human history must be the urgent focus of the international community. We need to look at the North with cold-eyed realism. Even though Kim is not detonating nuclear warheads or flinging missiles over Japan now to test his military capabilities – as he did last year – North Korean scientists are continuing work in their labs to strengthen and expand the North’s atomic arsenal. Each minute that passes is another minute Kim can build more weapons of mass destruction – by some estimates, one new nuclear weapon every month – using technology the North has already has, without the need for further nuclear tests. While the whole world is obsessed with summits, the Trump administration needs to focus on only one thing: Will Kim Jong Un give up his nuclear weapons in a way that is realistic and verifiable, offering a plan that is actionable? If the answer is “yes,” then President Trump and Kim should meet. If not, there is simply no point in legitimizing a dictator whose family has caused the deaths of millions of North Koreans. Holding a Trump-Kim summit just for the sake of holding the summit makes no sense if it won’t result in progress toward North Korean denuclearization. But how can both sides bridge what seems to be an insurmountable gap? Kim – at least up until now – is only willing to offer an aspirational pledge to denuclearize, afraid that unilaterally giving up his nuclear weapons will leave him exposed to regime change in the future. The Trump administration, it seems, is looking for something concrete, with a clear end date for a non-nuclear North Korea, including tough verification measures. My advice, as I offered on “The Ingraham Angle” on Fox News Thursday, is a simple step-by-step approach, where both sides would give a little in a reciprocal fashion to build trust and end the standoff. This step-by-step approach seems to have been hinted at in various formats by U.S. State Department officials and even by President Trump in several interviews. The plan would work like this: Following a concreate pledge to denuclearize, North Korea would give up one or two nuclear weapons in rapid fashion. Once these weapons come under some sort of international control and are verified for their authenticity, the United States and its allies – perhaps working with the United Nations Security Council – would remove a small portion of the economic sanctions that have badly damaged North Korea’s economy. Next, North Korea would surrender several long-range missiles. This could include one or two intercontinental ballistic missiles or – if the North was wary of going that far – perhaps five medium- or intermediate-range missiles. The missiles would be placed under international control and verified. Then more sanctions would be lifted. Such a process could go on for months and even a little longer, building trust and ensuring that North Korea keeps its word. It could also be expanded to include Kim’s chemical and biological weapons programs. The step-by-step plan would include clear benchmarks for both sides and what each side gives and takes. It could even include incentives for a much more rapid denuclearization, along with a clear start and end date that must be honored. Such a plan could also be terminated quickly if things were to sour – or if we discover that North Korea is trying, once again, to cheat on any deal. If Pyongyang tried to wiggle its way out of such an agreement, tried to stall, or did anything that went against the agreement it could be stopped immediately. The U.S. and our allies would then reimpose the “maximum pressure campaign” and ensure Kim is contained, trapped in isolation until he decides he is serious about abandoning its nukes. The result, thanks to such a step-by-step approach, would be a world free of Kim’s nuclear weapons and all missiles that could leave his territory. This would also make it impossible for North Korea to build any such weapons in the future through a tough, ongoing verification process. This would need to be accomplished by January 20, 2021 – the end of President Trump’s first term. Of course, there would criticism of such a plan. Some would argue that this is just an Iran-style deal and not tough enough because it fails to make North Korea surrender all it nuclear weapons upfront. I would love to see Pyongyang accept unilateral nuclear disarmament, as Libya did. But considering North Korea’s own statements over anything like the so-called “Libya-model,” I think it seems clear this simply won’t happen. Having studied North Korea for over a decade, I can tell you that if President Trump insists on such a deal, he will only make Kim dig in his heels. Kim will see the “Libya model” as surrender that could lead to him being ousted from power and killed. So there is virtually zero chance that he will agree to this. The only process that will work is one in which both sides are making concessions nearly at the same time, allowing everyone to save face, with no one side looking like it is appeasing the other. But none of this will happen unless North Korea is willing to come to the negotiating table in good faith – and history shows that has never been the case. Now is the time for the Trump administration to test Kim’s intentions and find out once and for all if he is willing to make history and put the interests of his impoverished and long-suffering people above his own desire to use nuclear weapons inflate his ego and stay in power.
Sometimes size does matter. After a blistering attack from President Trump, The New York Times on Wednesday corrected a story about the size of the crowd at the president’s Nashville rally the night before. The Gray Lady initially reported that 1,000 people gathered at the arena in Tennessee to see Trump endorse Marsha Blackburn for the Senate. The paper revised the number upward to 5,500 based on a tally from the local fire marshal and corrected the story. “President @realDonaldTrump is correct about his crowd last night,” wrote Times reporter Julie Davis in a tweet. “My estimate was way off, and we have corrected our story to reflect the fire marshal’s estimate of 5,500 people. When we get it wrong, we say so.” The correction followed another blistering 280-character missive from Trump about his hometown broadsheet. “The Failing and Corrupt @nytimes estimated the crowd last night at “1000 people,” when in fact it was many times that number – and the arena was rockin’,” Trump wrote. “This is the way they demean and disparage. They are very dishonest people who don’t “get” me, and never did!” The New York Times posted a $55.5 million operating profit last quarter.
Users Have More Apps With the rapid growth of the sharing economy in recent years, the number of mobile applications providing these services is growing by the day. In the future, there is a high likelihood that the average mobile user in the developed world will have at least 20 sharing economy apps on their devices. Today, a typical Smartphone user in developed countries accesses nearly 10 applications daily, according to a study by App Annie. As the number of essential mobile applications continues to increase, users are experiencing more challenges when it comes to managing their apps. Imagine having mobile applications for almost everything installed on your device. With the many industries being disrupted by this technology, it would not be unusual to need over 20 applications to navigate through everyday activities. All those apps would also take up phone space, data and battery often sending notifications that you care little about. Studies show that with the rising amount of mobile apps, users are now experiencing what is known as app fatigue. According to ZDNet, app fatigue occurs when a user has too many apps on their phone and they have to scroll through screens of apps to find the one that they want. When this problem sets in, users tend to develop app phobia, a condition that involves uninstalling apps that they can survive without, avoiding new apps all-together. But now with the blockchain, the challenge of having to download multiple apps to access a variety of shared economy services is about to come to an end. Blockchain Solutions Blockchain projects such as the ShareRing are working on offering a single platform where people can easily and securely share almost anything without depending on centralized institutions. Even better, users are able to access a large number of services using the same platform and payment method and without relying on intermediaries or having to download an app for each service. The ShareRing ecosystem also seeks to engage partners such as Uber, Airbnb and other sharing app providers to build their unique ‘mini apps’ within the platform’s app. Simply put, the ShareRing app will act as an app for all sharing apps but will unify them by providing the same accessibility and payment methods. This means that users will have only one sharing economy app on their phones and this app will connect them with all the available sharing services within and across borders. Personal Data Safety Apart from bringing unification in the sharing economy sector, the blockchain is also ensuring users’ personal data safety. In fact, one of the reasons people are avoiding conventional mobile apps nowadays is their notoriety in misusing users’ data and exposing them to hackers. In the sharing economy sector specifically, Uber and Airbnb have in the past been in the limelight for the same reasons. For instance, in 2016, Uber was hacked and personal data of over 57 million US residents stolen. The company did not report the hack as required by the Federal Trade Commission and it was not until in 2017 that the incident was exposed. With the sharing economy ecosystem being run on the blockchain network, the challenges of a data breach will be over. The distributed nature of the technology and its reliance on cryptography makes it nearly impenetrable to attacks. Another great advantage of the shared economy on the blockchain is that people will not have to go through long processes to access services across borders. With blockchain projects such as ShareRing, users will use the same app, method, and currency to order services and make payments. Also, having the smart economy on the blockchain will ensure that users are protected from being wrongly charged. In the recent past, Uber has come under scrutiny after it was realized that rogue drivers in Nigeria were using a GPS-altering app to confuse the Uber app and therefore overcharge riders. With a blockchain powered platform, this would be impossible given that the technology can be set to verify data accuracy. Blockchain projects such as FOAM are already working towards making GPS more accurate and safe. As the shared economy continues to grow, there is no doubt that more and more solutions powered by the blockchain technology will continue to come up, solving big issues and small pain points along the way.
Six cartel assassins belonging to the armed wing of the Juárez Cartel, known as “La Línea,” were captured in Juárez during two separate police operations in the El Paso-Juárez Metropolitan Border Area. Local media reported on the arrests of the first three assassins identified as Hiram Antonio M. M., José Manuel V. G., and Vianey Monserrat B. P. who were suspected in the murder of a 24-year-old male shot multiple times with a 9mm handgun in colonia Electricistas. Witnesses observed the suspects flee in a red Ford Mustang which was later located by Juárez municipal police in colonia Revolución Mexicana and stopped after a pursuit. After arresting the three suspects, Juárez police discovered a 9mm handgun with nine rounds along with a small quantity of cocaine, according to the Secretary of Public Security for the City of Juárez. He also related that investigators for the state police found seven 9mm shell casings at the homicide scene and the three detainees admitted to being members of La Línea and were executing their rivals from “Los Aztecas.” The leader of the detainees, Hiram Antonio, 27, has a criminal record for illegal firearm possession and robbery. The next three gunmen were also arrested by Juárez municipal police on the morning of May 29 as a result of intensive patrols carried out in response to the escalation of cartel violence. A police patrol observed a 2010 Ford Ranger driving recklessly in colonia Fronteriza and upon initiating a traffic stop, observed an occupant toss an object out the window. A search produced a .45 caliber handgun and 13 rounds which resulted in the three occupants being arrested. The trio admitted their membership in La Línea and was identified as Adrián Ángel P.S., 27; Jorge Luis P.B., 22; and Martin Feliciano L.L., 27. They claimed they were carrying the weapon for protection, according to local news reports. Breitbart Texas reported extensively on the cartel violence in Juarez and on the split between Los Aztecas and La Línea, in addition to the May 24 arrest of Bruno Angel Rangel, aka “El Bruno,” who served in leadership for both groups. Breitbart Texas also reported on the recent arrest of Los Aztecas members in Juarez who admitted that they were fleeing La Linea after splitting from the organization. In early May, due to the heightened levels of cartel violence, the federal government was forced to deploy elements of the Mexican military. Robert Arce is a retired Phoenix Police detective with extensive experience working Mexican organized crime and street gangs. Arce has worked in the Balkans, Iraq, Haiti, and recently completed a three-year assignment in Monterrey, Mexico, working out of the Consulate for the United States Department of State, International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Program, where he was the Regional Program Manager for Northeast Mexico (Coahuila, Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leon, Durango, San Luis Potosi, Zacatecas.) You can follow him on Twitter. He can be reached at robertrarce@gmail.com
Minnesota Public Radio: MN GOP candidates feud over health insurance An unusually early campaign dustup is underway between two of the leading 2018 Republican candidates for governor. Their disagreement is over health insurance policy. Keith Downey, the former state GOP chair, fired the first salvo this week on social media when he accused state Rep. Matt Dean, R-Dellwood, of bailing out rather than trying to kill the statewide health insurance exchange known as MNsure. Downey claims Dean used his position as chair of the House Health and Human Services committee to “prop up” MNsure by advancing a reinsurance bill last session. The measure provides subsidies aimed at stabilizing the cost of private insurance plans. “He could have refused to hear the bill in his committee,” Downey wrote. “He could have led a charge to vote against passing it on the House floor. But he didn’t.” Minneapolis StarTribune: Minneapolis mayoral candidates talk downtown safety, affordable housing Minneapolis mayoral candidates traded barbs on issues from public safety to the citywide $15 minimum wage at a forum organized by the downtown business community Thursday, with much of the criticism directed at Mayor Betsy Hodges, who reiterated what she’s accomplished since being elected in 2013. “I have not jumped to the head of the parade and pretended I’ve been leading it the whole time,” she said. Hodges is facing challenges from Council Member Jacob Frey, DFL state Rep. Ray Dehn, Nekima Levy-Pounds, Tom Hoch and Aswar Rahman, among others. About 100 members of the local business community attended the forum, filling a conference room at the downtown Radisson Blu hotel. Moderator Tom Hauser, a political reporter for KSTP-TV, kicked off the hourlong forum with a question about public safety and crime downtown — an issue that’s become central to the race. As with other topics, including affordable housing and the bid for Amazon’s new headquarters, candidates largely agreed on fundamentals but differed on specifics. Minnesota Post: For some Minnesota counties, climate change may bring economic benefits Scientists predict places like Texas and Florida will be bracing for more hurricanes like Harvey and Irma as the earth heats up in the coming years, and that rising temps and extreme weather events will cost those states’ economies. Minnesota, not as much. According to a new study from an interdisciplinary team of researchers, Minnesota and other parts of the country, especially the upper Midwest, Northeast and West actually stand to benefit from climate change. At least in some ways. The study, published in Science this summer, is the first to estimate the effects of climate change on multiple sectors at the county level, said Amir Jina, an assistant professor at the University of Chicago’s Harris School of Public Policy and a co-author of the report. The researchers assumed a “business as usual” scenario — what Jina described as “the world if we don’t adhere to the Paris Agreement, but don’t get too much worse in terms of what we’re doing” — and projected the effects of climate change out to around the end of the current century, 2080-99. What they found surprised even them. While people often talk about how the world’s poorest countries will be disproportionately hurt by climate change, Jina and his colleagues found the same patterns across counties in the U.S., with the poorest third of counties, many of them in southern states, projected to experience much larger income losses by the end of the century than their wealthier counterparts, largely in the Northwest, upper Midwest and Northeast.
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. The first primaries are in the books... Dana Perino, former White House Press Secretary, co-host of Fox News Channel's "The Five" and host of "The Daily Briefing" and Chris Stirewalt Fox News Politics Editor and host of "Power Play", run through the daily goings on in the world of politics. This week, Dana and Chris discuss primary night in West Virginia, Ohio, Indiana & North Carolina. General Election matchups are set, Dana and Chris explain what it all means. Plus, very special birthday's in the Perino & Stirewalt families. LISTEN to "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What": Follow Dana Perino on Twitter: @DanaPerino and Facebook Plus pick up her books: "And The Good News Is..." and "Let Me Tell You About Jasper" now available in paperback. Follow Chris Stirewalt on Twitter: @ChrisStirewalt and subscribe to his political news note: 'FOX News Halftime Report' And pre-order his new book: "Every Man A King: A Short, Colorful History of American Populists" Click HERE for more "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What"
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. There's a great scene in the movie Witness where a bunch of bullies start picking on some Amish farmers, and then they pick on Harrison Ford, who is sporting Extreme Mennonite drag. They knock off his straw hat, laugh at him, and then he beats the crap out of them. The bullies are shocked, stunned, and bewildered. Why, he’s not supposed to fight back! Why, the Amish, they’re better than that! But Harrison’s not. As his buddy says, he’s from Ohio. I am not better than that either. How about you? Because today, being “better than that” means being willing to allow other people to control you by defining you, and the definition is always “a pushover.” You’re supposed to be “conservative,” our conservasuperiors tell us, and we must therefore rigidly adhere to their precious “conservative principles.” But these bear no resemblance to real principles, much less conservative ones. Allow me to sum up these fake principles: Don’t ever fight. Don’t presume to exercise your own right of free expression. Lose like a gentleman. Yeah, no. Hard pass, Fredocons. Last week, the NFL, broken by our informal boycott, took action against those kneeling jerks, and the elite – including its True Conservative™ collaborators – wet their collective panties all over the Internet about it. How horrible – we flexed our muscles, stopped watching these pampered jerks’ antics, and the NFL caved. We’re not supposed to do that. We’re supposed to behold these goofs’ glorious free speech, which consists of waving middle fingers in our mugs, and just nod politely. We aren’t the ones who should be exercising our freedom of expression. We are the ones who are supposed to cave. We are always the ones who are supposed to cave. I guess we missed the memo. Oh, and how Task Force Pearl Clutcher lectured us for not adequately defending the First Amendment that a bunch of us were physically defending when the vast majority of them were back home getting their masters in 17th century philosophy and sipping Zimas. Worse, they shamefully took to the enemy microphone that is the New York Times op-ed page to scold us and spew out exactly what the liberals wanted to hear – that we conservatives should never, ever take our own side in a fight. Apparently, the going rate for professional conservatives is thirty pieces of silver and a byline in American Pravda. Liberals never seem to have this blue falcon problem, because they understand power. But then, those of us less concerned with getting an invitation to talk to donors at the National Weekly Liberty Forum for Eagle Family Liberty Standard Coalition and Cruise than not having progressive Birkenstocks ground into our faces forever, understand power too. And, scandalously, now we’re using it. The liberals were likewise beside themselves at the results of our push back, prompting them to go into one of their trademark sessions of coordinated but inept gaslighting. Why, how dare we Normals take offense at this peaceful protest of love! Baloney. This kneeling thing was mindless performance art designed by these leftist jerks, and enabled by the liberal elite and its slobbering media lapdogs, to insult us to our faces by committing an act of calculated disrespect to our country and to the Normal Americans who built it, feed it, and protect it. It was a scam and a lie from the word “hike.” This dimwitted protest was always directed at us, and no one else. If it wasn’t us, who was it? The America-loathing elite that was cheering them on? These preening primadonnas did not have to choose the football game venue, one we attend to escape from things like politics and condescending lectures. They did not have to choose the National Anthem, a symbol of the country we love and serve. If these overpaid, pampered, posing fools wanted to protest whatever it is they are protesting, they could have done it differently, but then doing it differently wouldn’t have freaked out the squares. That was the point, and now they are mad because we took their insult exactly as they intended it to be taken. And they aren’t even man enough to admit it. Their new story is that this has nothing to do with us Normals, that it's not an insult. No, it's a heartfelt plea for…something. I guess the pig-cop socks and Castro T-shirt were gestures of respect. Let’s get real. They wanted to rub our faces in their contempt, to laugh at us as we had to endure it, humiliated by our own powerlessness. We were supposed to just sit there and take it. We are never supposed to use our own power to fight back. RECORD SCRATCH! Oops. Look who’s laughing now. Turns out we can throw a punch as well, and did, slugging the feckless NFL right in the wallet. You want to politicize everything? This is politicizing everything. Enjoy. We’re playing by the New Rules too. I warned them they would hate the New Rules. But gosh, we can’t do that. Oh well, I never! “How dare you Normal Americans get militant and actually fight back,” whine the kneelers of Team Principles. Real conservatives don’t fight back. See, that’s not who we are. No, that’s not who they are. We understand something the Conservative, Inc., goofs never seem to figure out. They howl that all we are about these days is “owning the libs” and “winning,” but here’s the thing. Sometimes, you have to win. Sometimes, you have to stop yapping and start performing. Once in a while, you have to put points on the board. Otherwise, people stop listening to you. It’s possible to spend your whole career inside Conservative, Inc., drifting from cheesy think tank sinecure to lame magazine scribbling gig, never actually winning anything. But out here, in America, we want to, and need to, prevail. Our rights and our dignity are merely theoretical constructs to the Fredocons, and are of no significance to them. But our rights and dignity matter to us. And we are acting and voting accordingly. These cruise-shilling nags have delivered nothing but tiresome scoldings and a never-ending series of capitulations. No wonder they can’t seem to sell out those two-twin bed deluxe cabins along the Lido Deck anymore. No wonder Normal Americans turned to someone like Donald Trump when these pathetic losers were only offering us more defeat and more humiliation at the hands of our enemies in the culture war. We reject the bizarre notion that we are somehow obligated to stoically take guff from people who despise us without responding because doing so is “unconservative.” We decline to be commanded by conscientious objectors. Here’s how we roll. When the enemy deploys its power against us, whether it’s some football jerk dissing us via Old Glory or some tech titan deciding to not allow us access to social media, we will fight back using whatever power we have. We’ll bankrupt the NFL before we just sit there watching them flip us off. And we’ll leverage our political power to regulate the Twittfacegrams into submission if they keep trying to exclude us from participation in our own culture. There is no conservative principle that requires you to not use your most effective weapon in your own self-defense. None. “But that’s not conservative!” the sissies whimper. That’s true only if you adopt a definition of conservatism that presumptively surrenders whenever it meets resistance. The simple, undeniable fact is that punishment works. Retaliation works. If you want the Old Rules back in effect – I’d prefer that – then you need to teach the enemy that it can’t apply New Rules without feeling the same pain it inflicts. That’s a real conservative principle. Unilateral disarmament doesn’t work. Remember, nothing in conservatism ever obligates you to accept an end-result where you must silently endure disrespect, where you are excluded from participation in your own governance, or where your rights are voided. None, though a bunch of allegedly conservative racketeers disenfranchised by the revolution that led to the election of Donald Trump are still trying to sell you on that idea. Laugh at them and their fussy complaints about how you fail to conform your life to their labels. Fight back. Remember, militant Normal Americans aren’t from Washington. They’re from Ohio.
Setting up a school choice showdown with the Texas House, the Senate Education Committee approved legislation Thursday that would create education savings account and tax credit scholarship programs. Sen. Larry Taylor’s Senate Bill 3 advanced on a 7-3 vote. Democrat Eddie Lucio broke party ranks to vote for it; Kel Seliger was the lone Republican to vote against it. Taylor and Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick rebuffed efforts by school districts and teacher unions to dilute or restrict SB 3, which would redirect some education funding to parents to use as they see fit and provide a tax credit for businesses that contribute to a scholarship fund to help pay for private school tuition. With passage in the Senate virtually assured, Patrick and his allies appear ready to use school choice as a bargaining chip in end-of-session negotiations with the House. House Education Committee Chairman Dan Huberty said earlier this month that he opposes the Senate bill. He suggested it might not get a hearing. The Kingwood Republican has filed a bill that would increase the basic allotment for all public schools and earmark more funding for students with dyslexia. The Texas Charter Schools Association praised the measure for aiming “to correct systemic failures in a dated finance scheme.” A “grand bargain” could be in the offing, said Allan Parker, president of the pro-school choice Justice Foundation. “There are people who want more money for schools, but only if there’s something for parents — and that has to be school choice,” Parker told Watchdog.org. “There’s an unwillingness to spend more unless there’s a consumer mechanism that allows students to seek a better alternative.” Parker said more than 1,000 low-performing schools across Texas point to the necessity of expanding choices. “Simply inflating the bureaucracy isn’t going to improve accountability,” he asserted. Monty Exter, lobbyist for the Association of Texas Professional Educators, the state’s largest teacher organization, told the Senate committee, “There are plenty of things you could do to help Texas education. Implementing a voucher program is not one of them.” Parker said rank-and-file teachers should support choice. “School choice gets them out from under a bureaucracy where principals don’t support them on discipline. Under SB 3, every school becomes a school of choice – for students and teachers,” he said. Kenric Ward reports for Texas Watchdog. Contact him at kward@watchdog.org and @Kenricward.
An NBC News report published Tuesday, citing various intelligence officials and a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) report, reveals that many in the U.S. intelligence community have little faith that North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un will ever abandon his nuclear weapons program. According to NBC News, who spoke with three U.S. officials involved in the report’s publication, intelligence analysts do not believe that dictator Kim Jong-un will go through with any pledge of denuclearization, casting doubt on President Donald Trump’s ongoing ambition to see the rogue regime get rid of its nuclear weapons. “Everybody knows they are not going to denuclearize,” said one intelligence official with knowledge of the report, which was published earlier this month. The report also found that Kim may “consider offering to open a Western hamburger franchise in Pyongyang as a show of goodwill,” as well as other concessions such as “other limited American investment in North Korea.” Pyongyang may also allow South Korea to help provide humanitarian aid in the form of food delivery to the millions of North Koreans starving outside the relatively prosperous capital of Pyongyang. However, one official admitted that the report was “essentially some very smart analysts offering their very best guesses.” Trump indicated this month that, should North Korea initiate a process of denuclearization, the regime would receive “protections that would be very strong,” possibly in the form of lifting economic sanctions and America not advocating for any form of regime change. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo also said during a recent Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing that he was “optimistic” that the U.S. will be able to convince Kim to take steps towards the denuclearization, adding that he had made “made it crystal clear” to Kim that he “fully understands what dismantlement means in terms of these negotiations.” Potential negotiations with North Korea appeared to take a setback after Trump canceled a planned peace meeting with Kim Jong-un in Singapore last week, responding to regime officials describing Vice President Mike Pence as a “political dummy” for comments he made about the country’s future should it not dismantle its nuclear arsenal. Negotiations for a summit between the two men now appear to have recommenced after North Korean officials said they were willing to provide “time and opportunity” to the United States, with speculation growing that the event would be a three-way meeting between Trump, Kim, and leftist South Korean President Moon Jae-in. Despite downgrading the belligerence of their state media, which regularly called for the wholesale destruction of the United States, North Korea’s rhetoric still remains hostile. In a commentary in the state propaganda newspaper Rodong Sinmun this week, the author asserted that it is “high time the U.S. behaved properly” if talks between Trump and Kim are to be successful. Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.
It’s no longer too early to begin making projections for next year’s college basketball season. Wednesday night was the deadline for players to either keep their name eligible for the June 21 NBA draft and sign with an agent or return to school. There were some surprises, and a few questionable decisions. These are some of the biggest winners and losers from the testing-waters portion of the draft process: Winners Syracuse: Burned by players leaving early in the past, Syracuse seemed destined to lose another star. Most felt shooting guard Tyus Battle was headed to the NBA despite being projected as a mid-second-round pick. But the Edison, N.J., native is coming back for one more year, fortifying a solid roster that will return all five starters now and adds top New Jersey recruit Jalen Carey. St. John’s: Go ahead, Red Storm fans. You can dream about an NCAA Tournament bid now that Big East leading scorer Shamorie Ponds is back after working out for six NBA teams. The 6-foot-1 southpaw was one of just two players to be selected to all-league Big East teams who had eligibility left and came back. More good news could be on the way, too, as Auburn transfer Mustapha Heron will be in Queens on a visit Thursday, and there is a chance the rugged 6-5 wing could be eligible if granted a hardship waiver. Nevada: Twin brothers Cody and Caleb Martin returning to Nevada give the Wolfpack a preseason top 10 team, and a legitimate Final Four contender. The multi-talented forwards waited until 30 minutes before the midnight deadline to decide, but coach Eric Musselman will take it, because he will have an even better team next year than the one that reached the Sweet 16, since he also adds a number of intriguing transfers, brings back physical forward Jordan Caroline, and McDonald’s All-American Jordan Brown. Kentucky: John Calipari won’t have to rely solely on freshmen next year. Gifted 6-foot-7 forward PJ Washington is back, deciding on Wednesday and anchoring what should be a deep and formidable front line that also includes returnee Nick Richards, and possibly Stanford star forward Reid Travis, a graduate transfer already being linked to the Wildcats who averaged 19.5 points and 8.7 rebounds a year ago. Kentucky did lose sophomore wing Wenyen Gabriel and freshman forward Jarred Vanderbilt to the professional ranks on Wednesday, but adds it’s usual array of five-star freshmen. Auburn: Losing Mustapha Heron, an All-SEC second-team selection hurts, but Bruce Pearl still batted .750, as guards Bryce Brown and Jared Harper, along with forward Austin Wiley, opted to pass on the pros, giving the Tigers a solid shot to finish atop the SEC for the second straight year. Losers Villanova: The national champion’s top four scorers are gone. Jalen Brunson and Mikal Bridges were not expected back, but there was hope Final Four Most OUtstanding Player Donte DiVincenzo and sharpshooting forward Omari Spellman could return before both boosted their stock at the NBA combine. It will leave coach Jay Wright in uncharted waters, relying on inexperienced players, in particular five-star point guard Jahvon Quinerly of New Jersey’s Hudson Catholic, in pivotal roles. Maryland: Yes, forward Bruno Fernando opted to return on Tuesday, a positive development. But losing skilled wing Kevin Huerter is more damaging than encouraging. The 6-7 Huerter was the team’s top 3-point shooter at 41.7 percent, one of the Terrapins’ premier playmakers and a quality rebounder. However, it wasn’t a surprise, considering the Clifton Park native had moved himself up draft boards, into a likely first-round pick after a stellar performance at the combine. Plus, forward Justin Jackson signed with an agent despite appearing in just 11 games because of a torn labrum in his right shoulder. Texas A&M: Projected first-round pick Robert Williams leaving was a given. But the departures of forwards DJ Hogg and Tyler Davis, neither of whom is a lock to even get drafted, are major blows to this Sweet 16 team. The Aggies could tumble down the loaded SEC.
Facebook has unveiled a set of new rules requiring buyers of political ads to provide the last four digits of their social security number as a way to verify that they live in the United States. The move comes after it was revealed that the social media platform allowed a Russian troll farm to spread fake news and propaganda in the form of sponsored ads targeting users based on their personal data, allegedly to sway public opinion in the run-un to the 2016 presidential election in favor of Donald Trump. Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg testified before the US Congress in April about allowing the personal data of 87million users to be harvested for political purposes by the British consulting company Cambridge Analytica, which was working for the Trump campaign. Facebook has unveiled new rules requiring buyers of political ads to provide personal information verifying that they are from the US Under the new guidelines, ad buyers have to provide the last four digits of their Social Security number, along with a photo of an Id card and US mailing address Zuckerberg is currently on a tour of Europe to apologize for his company's failure to protect user data and root out fake news. Under Facebook's new guidelines, which were announced in March, anyone who wishes to run an ad related to politics, or other hot-button issues like guns, immigration, civil rights, economy and terrorism, will have to provide the last four digits of their Social Security number, along with a photo of a government-issued identification card and a US mailing address. If the information checks out, the user will be mailed a code authorizing the purchase of Facebook ads. Facebook tells CNN, which first reported the story, that users' personal information used in the verification process will be deleted within about six weeks. The new rules also apply to ads focusing on such hot-button issues as immigration, guns, abortion and civil rights The move comes after it was revealed that the social media platform allowed a Russian troll farm to spread fake news and propaganda in the form of sponsored ads like this one ahead of the 2016 election All ads advocating for or against political candidates, and even those simply mentioning a candidate’s name, will be accompanied by a 'paid for by' tag. Ads focusing on the other topics from a list of 20 polarizing issues that Facebook released last month, including abortion, immigration and 'values,' will be subjected to the same verification process. Facebook plans to hire as many as 4,000 additional employees who will be tasked with reviewing and verify political ads. Mea culpa: Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg (pictured on Wednesday in Paris) is currently on a tour of Europe to apologize for his company's failure to protect user data and root out fake news In addition to the more rigorous verification process, the social media giant plans to harness artificial intelligence to block malicious accounts before they can spread misinformation. Facebook is not alone in having to grapple with the aftereffects of Russian interference ahead of the midterm elections in November. On Wednesday, Twitter announced it is adding special labels to tweets from some US political candidates ahead of this year’s midterm elections. Twitter says the move is to provide users with ‘authentic information’ and prevent spoofed and fake accounts from fooling users. The labels will include what office a person is running for and where. Both the candidate’s account and the tweets from it will get labels. The labels will appear on retweets as well as tweets off of Twitter, such as when they are embedded in a news story. The labels will start to appear next week for candidates for governor and Congress. Twitter wouldn’t say whether it will extend this outside the U.S., where elections interference has also been a big issue. The San Francisco-based company is working with the nonprofit, nonpartisan Ballotpedia to help identify the relevant Twitter accounts.
The New York man who made headlines last week after he was ordered by a judge to vacate his parents’ home has started packing up his belongings and finalizing moving plans. Michael Rotondo, 30, of Camillus, was preparing his move by going to Lowe’s to buy boxes for packing. He said he was offered free packing supplies by a Home Depot employee but turned her down, saying it did not feel right, the Post-Standard of Syracuse reported. When asked by the paper why he declined the woman’s offer but took $3,000 from radio show host Alex Jones he said, “Alex Jones makes money for having me on his show, but the woman does not.” The paper followed Rotondo as he packed before Friday, the legal deadline. During that time, a person called the man on a restricted number and said “loser” before hanging up. Rotondo called police following the call. NEW YORK MAN, 30, IS ORDERED TO VACATE PARENTS’ HOME AFTER REFUSING TO LEAVE FOR MONTHS "I can't have my phone getting jammed up with nonsense like that," Rotondo said. "I can't have that happen." He told the Post-Standard he was not too sure how long it would take to pack his room but noted that his belongings would go into a self-storage unit. "Looking around my room and stuff - how much more is all this going to take to pack?" he asked. REMAINS OF SUSPECTED MS-13 VICTIM UNEARTHED IN NEW YORK, POLICE SAY "There's no more urgency after that," he added. "Everything else is just finding a long-term place." Rotondo said he was still looking for the perfect place, which he described as “someplace inexpensive, with internet.” Fox News’ Katherine Lam and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Wednesday’s session was more than a snapback rally. It was a statement on the state of the economy. Even the lowered revision on the first-quarter Gross Domestic Product (GDP) lends credence to the possibility that we are in the midst of a blowout quarter that could see the GDP above 4.0%. First-Quarter GDP Revisions Business Fixed investment: 9.1% from 6.1% Equipment: 5.5% from 4.7% Structures: 14.2% from 12.3% Intellectual Property (IP): 10.9% from 3.9% Inventory Spending: $20.2billion from $33.1 billion Non-Durable Goods Spending: +0.4% from +0.1% Message of the Market The message of the market was more like a statement. Fundamentals matter! China trade saber-rattlers and North Korean summit doubts didn’t matter yesterday. Also, buyers materialized early on, as there was a general sense the tide was turning. And all those smart folks sitting on their hands decided to make their move. Market Breadth - NYSE and NASDAQ 4417 winners against 1511 losers Up volume was 400% higher than down volume 386 stocks high 52-week highs versus 78 new lows S&P 500 Sector Performance S&P 500 Index +1.22% Consumer Discretionary (XLY) +0.86% Consumer Staples (XLP) +1.37% Energy (XLE) +2.99% Financials (XLF) +1.78% Health Care (XLV) +1.38% Industrials (XLI) +1.25% Materials (XLB) +1.10% Real Estate (XLRE) +1.39% Technology (XLK) +0.67% Utilities (XLU) +0.70% Energy came back strong and financials rebounded, although it was not enough to erase yesterday’s losses. However, brick-and-mortar retailers continue to look amazing as Movado (MOV) rallied to an all-time high, belying the notion people stopped buying watches. There are the retail names that were crushed after posting results - many of those are coming back quickly, including The Children’s Place (PLCE) and AutoZone (AZO). After the close, Tilly’s (TLYS) blew away the Street, sending its shares up 14%. The shorts are going to have to decide whether to hang in there or abandon ship. Meanwhile, we wait to hear from the dollar stores: Dollar Tree (DLTR) and Dollar General (DG). There are more value seekers in consumer staples, but I like the higher-valuation names in the sector such as Monster Beverage (MNST) and Constellation Brands (STZ). However, folks, you already know that I love the ‘Dirty Fingernail Economy’ and the great investments that go along with it. Yesterday morning, 64,000 jobs were created in the goods-producing sector, according to the ADP Jobs Report: Construction: 39,000 Mining: 11,000 Manufacturing: 14,000 We are averaging 53,000 goods-producing jobs each month this year from 37,000 in 2017 and only 5,000 in 2016. Those numbers could have been much better. Yesterday’s Beige Book underscored the amazing difficulty of finding workers for this historical jobs boom. Meanwhile, the truckers and rails keep powering this market higher. Beige Book Highlights Federal Reserve Bank of New York Growth has remained fairly brisk in the manufacturing sector and has picked up somewhat in the service industries. Consumer spending has been steady to stronger in April and early May, buoyed by increased tourism. Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia Staffing firms continued to report steady demand for temporary workers and direct hires in several local labor markets, with increased wage pressures in the tightest markets. According to one contact, clients are hiring faster now compared with a few years ago when they were indecisive about whether to hire and whom. Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland Homebuilders reported that overall customer demand was either steady or improving and that current trends are expected to continue into the next few months. A stronger job market, higher mortgage rates, and rising home prices were noted as enabling and motivating purchases. Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond Employment agencies noted a slight decrease in job openings compared to the strong spring recruiting levels. Staffing firms reported increased demand for warehouse managers, customer service representatives, and medical and legal professionals. Meanwhile, business owners reported difficulty filling positions for carpenters, machinists, electricians, engineers, truck drivers, IT professionals, and construction workers. Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta Builders reported that new home construction increased since the previous report. Commercial real estate contacts indicated that demand continued to improve. Manufacturing purchasing managers cited increases in new orders and production. Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Manufacturing production increased strongly, employment grew moderately, consumer and business spending rose modestly, and construction and real estate activity increased slightly. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Contacts in Missouri and Arkansas also reported difficulties filling skilled technical and engineering positions. Some local employers have begun relaxing drug-testing standards and reducing restrictions on hiring convicted felons in order to alleviate labor shortages. Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis Hiring demand appeared robust. A job fair in northwestern Wisconsin had a full roster of interested employers and had to turn away others. A job fair in eastern Minnesota was also sold out with 50 employers, who reported almost 1,700 open positions. North Dakota saw April online job postings rise 9 percent over a year ago. Minnesota construction firms reported strong hiring, especially among skilled workers. Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City All sectors expected an increase in employment in the months ahead with the exception of auto sales. Respondents noted a shortage of commercial drivers, salespeople, and service workers. Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Expansion in the energy and service sectors continued at about the same pace, while retail spending was mixed. Outlooks remained fairly optimistic, but tariffs and trade-related concerns were creating uncertainty. Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Demand for workers in the restaurant industry increased markedly. Demand for construction labor continued to exceed supply, causing wages to rise moderately and wait times for project starts to increase. Across the District, contacts in banking and financial services noted persistent shortages of IT professionals, especially at companies or branches in rural areas. In response to shortages of skilled labor in banking services and manufacturing, contacts noted the growth of strategic training partnerships between these employers and colleges and trade schools to build a talent pipeline. Today’s Session The market was mostly unchanged with a slight upside bias all morning but weakness into the open has emerged. I don’t think it’s about the tariff announcement from the White House today but there is confusion as to whether it will cover only the EU (which has announced retaliatory levies of $3.3 billion) or if this could also be aimed at NAFTA partners that Wall Street assumed had permanently evaded. Great news on consumer income and spending and earnings were mostly mixed but still some intriguing narratives there as well.
Liberal talk radio host Bill Press echoed comments made by The View co-host Joy Behar comparing Vice President Mike Pence’s Christianity to having a mental illness. Press, in a video clip released Thursday, spoke about Behar’s comments on his radio show and said her comments about the vice president were justified. “Joy Behar apologized on the air. She said that about Mike Pence,” Press said. “By the way, Mike Pence’s Christianity — she’s right.” In February, Behar said the vice president suffered from a “mental illness” for believing that Jesus speaks to him. “It’s one thing to talk to Jesus,” Behar said on February 13. “It’s another thing when Jesus talks to you. That’s called mental illness, if I’m not correct, hearing voices.” “My question is, can he talk to Mary Magdalene when his wife isn’t in the room?” she added. Pence called Behar’s comments an “insult” to many Americans who believe in Christianity and said it was an example of “religious intolerance.” Behar apologized for mocking the vice president’s faith during an episode of The View in March, but not before more than 30,000 callers complained to ABC television network about Behar’s comments on-air. Pence accepted Behar’s apology but urged her to apologize to the “millions of Christians” who tune in to The View. Press has a history of bashing President Donald Trump and the voters who support him. In January, Press called Trump supporters “extreme wacko racists” and “rednecks.”
Left-wing filmmaker Michael Moore praised comedienne Samantha Bee’s “brilliant rant” on Wednesday evening where she described President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka as a “feckless c*nt.” In his Twitter message, Moore also accused the White House of failing to denounce Roseanne Barr’s racially charged remarks that led to ABC Entertainment canceling the reboot of her hit family sitcom Roseanne. “Ha! The White House today, still not denouncing Roseanne’s racism, tries to confuse the issue by going after Samantha Bee’s brilliant rant against Ivanka last night,” Moore wrote. Ha! The White House today, still not denouncing Roseanne’s racism, tries to confuse the issue by going after Samantha Bee’s brilliant rant against Ivanka last night. Watch it here: https://t.co/Y6yZVG6AjF SAM BEE: TRUTH-TELLER! — Michael Moore (@MMFlint) May 31, 2018 “Ivanka Trump, who works at the White House, chose to post the second most oblivious tweet we’ve seen this week,” Bee said during an episode of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee broadcast on Wednesday. “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c*nt.” Bee later apologized for the remarks, stating that she “crossed the line,” while the White House demanded that Time Warner and TBS respond to the controversy. “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network,” said White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. Moore, meanwhile, remains one of Hollywood’s most unhinged opponents of the Trump administration, previously arguing that he is a “sociopath” who presents a “singular threat to humanity.” Another anti-Trump celebrity to endorse Bee’s remarks was her fellow comedienne Kathy Griffin, who urged her not to apologize despite waves of criticism and advertiser boycotts. . @iamsambee please do not apologize. — Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) May 31, 2018 Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.
NEWS ITEM: LiAngelo Ball tries out with other draft hopefuls for the Los Angeles Lakers. FLASHBACK: LaVar Ball guarantees that all three of his sons (Lonzo, LiAngelo and LaMelo) will be playing for the Lakers by 2020. FACT: Not so fast. After this week’s workout, sources tell USA Today that not only are the Lakers not interested in drafting or signing LiAngelo, but they aren’t even considering putting him on their G-League team. Ball said he felt like his audition went well. TRENDING: Browns player promises big gift to fans if Cavs win NBA Finals LiAngelo Ball taking part in the “Lakers Mentality” drill near the end of his pre-draft workout with the team. Drill is designed to test a player’s long-distance accuracy and general fitness in a 90-second span. pic.twitter.com/X1qY6EV1dw — Mike Bresnahan (@Mike_Bresnahan) May 29, 2018 With team president Magic Johnson, coach Luke Walton and brother Lonzo watching, LiAngelo showed confidence in his talent. “I feel like it went good,” Ball told The Associated Press. “It’s always fun being in here doing things I want to get better at. It was a good workout.” LiAngelo, of course, dropped out of UCLA after being arrested in China for stealing sunglasses. Do you think LiAngelo Ball will be on an NBA roster next year? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Wildcard updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. As a result, he never suited up for the Bruins. That was followed by a stint with a Lithuanian team with LaMelo. But now he’s ready to move forward. “I don’t really remember too much about that,” he said. “That’s a closed chapter in my life. I just moved on. Went overseas. Just learned from over there. Came back.” Ball also confirmed that he has a workout scheduled with Golden State. It’s hard to believe he’d have a shot with the NBA champions if he can’t crack the roster of a lottery team — where his brother is the point guard. RELATED: Cavaliers get big boost for NBA Finals as Kevin Love is set to return Most experts don’t expect him to be drafted, and LiAngelo doesn’t sound too confident in that, either. “I’m not sure what’s going on with the draft,” he said. “I’m just playing my hardest and whatever team thinks I can produce for them, that’s who I’ll play for.” The Lakers were willing to deal with LaVar Ball’s sideshow because Lonzo is considered a generational playmaking talent. LiAngelo is not near that stratosphere, and it’s unlikely he’ll get the same chance. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Memorial Day is a day to reflect and remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice, and for one organization, an opportunity to give back to the loved ones they left behind. PepsiCo truck drivers – who are also U.S. military veterans – just finished their fourth annual “Rolling Remembrance” relay, raising funds for the Children of Fallen Patriots Foundation, which provides college scholarships and educational counseling for Gold Star children who lost a parent in the line of duty. “Rolling Remembrance allows us to recognize the sacrifices of veterans and their families and contribute to a cause we believe in deeply. It is an honor to also have the ability to involve our own employees who have served their country, whether it’s by giving them the opportunity to drive a leg of the trip or organizing events along the route,” said Jim Farrell, PepsiCo Vice President of Logistics, Distribution, and Transportation. This year, 37 PepsiCo drivers transported an American flag, originally flown on a UH-60M Blackhawk Helicopter in Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom, on an 8,000-mile cross-country relay from Seattle to White Plains, NY making 50 stops along the month-long journey. Rolling Remembrance raised over $200,000 for Children of Fallen Patriots Foundation. Since 2002, the foundation has raised more than $21 million in total assistance, including college scholarships, grants and educational counseling for more than 1,000 Gold Star kids. One of the PepsiCo transport drivers, William Whitlock, an Air Force intelligence analyst who served in the 80s, said he jumped at the opportunity to participate in Rolling Remembrance. “In daily life, the general awareness of our armed services can tend to fade into the background,” Whitlock, the Tampa, Florida representative, said. “With that, we forget about our soldiers, veterans and survivors. We forget about the fallen and their families. Rolling Remembrance and Children of Fallen Patriots wants to bring back to the forefront this Memorial Day.” For Whitlock, transporting the flag and raising awareness for the organization is about honoring his fallen brothers and sisters in arms and their children that go through the added challenges of losing a parent. “I proudly displayed that flag on the dashboard of my truck as I drove my segment of the relay, and I hope that everyone on the road that day not only looked at the special trailer we have, but sees it and reads it and checks out Children of Fallen Patriots and supports it,” he said. “For me, it's duty and love…No man left behind.”
Palestinians set tires on fire in response to Israel's intervention during a protest, organized to mark 70th anniversary of Nakba, also known as Day of the Catastrophe in 1948. Getty Images
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. After being sworn in for a fourth term, Vladimir Putin departed the Kremlin for Annunciation Cathedral to receive the televised blessing of Patriarch Kirill of the Russian Orthodox Church. The patriarch and his priests in sacred vestments surrounded Putin, who, standing alone, made the sign of the cross. Meanwhile, sacred vestments from the Sistine Chapel were being transported by the Vatican to New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art to adorn half-clad models in a sexy show billed as "Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination." One model sported a papal tiara. The show proved a sensation in secular media. In Minsk, Belarus, on May 17, to celebrate International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, Britain's embassy raised the rainbow flag. Belarus's Ministry of Internal Affairs was not amused: "Same-sex relationships are a fake. And the essence of fake is always the same -- the devaluation of truth. The LGBT community and all this struggle for 'their rights,' and the day of the community itself, are just a fake!" Belarus is declaring moral truth -- to Great Britain. What is going on? A scholarly study sums it up: "The statistical trends in religion show two separate Europes: the West is undergoing a process of secularization while the post-socialist East, de-secularization." One Europe is turning back to God; the other is turning its back on God. And when Vladimir Putin and Belarus' Alexander Lukashenko are standing up for traditional values against Western cultural elites, the East-West struggle has lost its moral clarity. And, so, what do we Americans stand for now? What is our cause in the world today? In World War II, Americans had no doubt they were in the right against Nazism and a militaristic Japan that had attacked us at Pearl Harbor. In the Cold War, we believed America was on God's side against the evil ideology of Marxism-Leninism, which declared the Communist state supreme and that there was no such thing as God-given rights. With the moral clarity of the Cold War gone, how do we rally Americans to fight on the other side of the world in places most of them can't find on a map? A weekend article in The Washington Post discusses the strategic difficulty of our even prevailing, should we become involved in wars with both Iran and North Korea. "You would expect the U.S. and its allies to prevail but at a human and material cost that would be almost incalculable, particularly in the case of the Korean example," said Rand researcher David Ochmanek, Added John Hopkins professor Mara Karlin, "If you want to ensure the Pentagon can actually plan and prepare and resource for a potential conflict with China or Russia, then getting into conflict with Iran or North Korea is the exact wrong thing to do." One wonders: How many of these potential wars -- with North Korea, Iran, Russia, China -- could we fight without having America bled and bankrupted. What conceivable benefit could we derive from these wars, especially with a China or Russia, to justify the cost? Looking back, only one great power survived the last century as a world power. The German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires did not survive World War I. World War II brought to an end the British, French, Italian and Japanese empires. The Soviet Union and the United States were the only great surviving powers of World War II, and the USSR itself collapsed between 1989 and 1991. Then, in 1991, we Americans started down the well-traveled road of empire, smashing Iraq to rescue Kuwait. Heady with that martial triumph, we plunged into Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria and Yemen. Though still embroiled, we are now talking war with North Korea or Iran, or even Russia or China, the former over its annexation of Crimea, the latter over its annexation of the South China Sea. Donald Trump is president today because he told the people he would "Make America Great Again" and put "America First." Which bring us back to the question: What is America's cause today? Defeating Nazism and fascism was a cause. Defending the West against Communism was a cause. But what cause now unites Americans? It is certainly not Christianizing the world as it was in centuries long ago, or imposing Western rule on mankind as it was in the age of empires from the 17th to the 20th century. Democracy crusading is out of style as the free elections we have demanded have produced Hamas, Hezbollah, the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, Muqtada al-Sadr in Iraq, and nationalists, populists and autocrats from Asia to the Middle East to Europe. Perhaps our mission is to defend and protect what is vital to us, to stay out of foreign wars where our critical interests are not imperiled, and to reunite our divided and disputatious republic -- if we are not too far beyond that.
A veterans’ group is indignant after Facebook pulled an ad for an event to honor two fallen police officers. Officers Christopher Ryan Morton and Gary Michael, both veterans, were shot and killed a year apart in the small Missouri community of Clinton. This year, the town planned a service for Memorial Day to honor the two heroes. It is with a heavy heart that we inform that Officer Christopher Ryan Morton from Clinton PD was shot and killed in the line of duty last night. He was just 30 years old. Your life mattered! pic.twitter.com/7I3p95hCvP — Back The Blue 🚓 (@BackThePolice) March 7, 2018 In the weeks leading up to the event, the local Veteran’s of Foreign Wars group purchased a Facebook ad to spread the word about the service, only to have Facebook remove it, citing its political ad policy. TRENDING: Blue Wave Drying Up as Polls for NJ Senate Race Show Incumbent Dem. Struggling The ad read, “Come joins us for the memorial ceremony as we pay tribute to our fallen Clinton police officers. If you plan to attend, please bring a lawn chair.” The ad was rejected and the group received a popup from Facebook, which explained the ad wasn’t permitted because of its “political content.” “Your ad was not approved because your page has not been authorized to run ads with political content,” the popup read. “This was not a political organization, and this was not a political ad,” Bruce Tarleton told Kansas City’s KCTV. Do you think Facebook's ad policy is fair? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. “It’s clear it’s not a political ad when you look at it,” Tarleton added. Tarleton appealed Facebook’s rejection, and the ad was put back up — only to be taken down the next day. “That’s what really got to me, because they had already run if for 24 hours now. Then on further review, they look at it again and it has to do with politics?” Tarleton said. “It’s frustrating in that there’s nobody you can call or contact — it’s all through the computer, and you are at the mercy of messages,” he said. RELATED: Facebook Suspends Company That Allegedly Helped Trump Win in 2016 Facebook has recently made sweeping changes to its ad policies after reports that Russia allegedly used political ads to meddle in the 2016 election. “Starting today, all election-related and issue ads on Facebook and Instagram in the US must be clearly labeled — including a ‘Paid for by’ disclosure from the advertiser at the top of the ad,” the new Facebook policy states. “Advertisers wanting to run ads with political content in the US will need to verify their identity and location.” “These changes will not prevent abuse entirely. We’re up against smart, creative and well-funded adversaries who change their tactics as we spot abuse. But we believe that they will help prevent future interference in elections on Facebook. And it is why they are so important.” Facebook has not responded to questions of why the Memorial Day ad was removed. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Coney Island, baby! More than 40 years since Lou Reed’s most romantic album, it’s a pity the rocker isn’t around to see the changes along the city’s iconic ocean beach and boardwalk. It’s been a long, strange roller-coaster ride for Coney Island since Fred Trump, President Trump’s dad, gleefully demolished Steeplechase Park in 1966 — the last of the boardwalk’s trio of great amusement parks. Fred, who wanted to build “Miami Beach-style” apartments, leveled Steeplechase before the city could declare it a landmark. So it’s delicious irony that the Landmarks Preservation Commission this month designated the 2.4-mile-long boardwalk an official “scenic landmark,” meaning it can’t be altered without city approval. The officially named Riegel­mann Boardwalk, as the seaside promenade is called by no one, is on a roll from end to end. Memorial Day weekend will see the opening of a new Luna Park thrill ride, Astro Tower, a 137-foot-tall scream machine that treats riders to “dramatic free-fall drops and rotation.” Two more “family-friendly” rides will follow in coming weeks. The fabled Coney Island of 100 years ago can’t return. The larger neighborhood of 50,000 mostly low-income residents remains tense and troubled. But the smarter comparison is between the beachfront’s seemingly irreversible decline of the 1970s-’90s and its rejuvenated current state — a heart-lifting story of New York’s regenerative powers. The boardwalk, originally constructed in 1923, is the safest it’s been in generations. Steeplechase Pier, which juts 1,100 feet into the Atlantic, was rebuilt after Hurricane Sandy with shade canopies and a raised viewing platform. The Ford Amphitheater and an indoor-outdoor eatery brought the decades-vacant former Childs Restaurant building back to life last year. A full-length boardwalk stroll offers an unrivaled urban spectacle of sky, sea and sand. (Be advised, there’s virtually no shade.) Its gracious width varies between 50 and 80 feet, according to the Department of Parks & Recreation — broader than most boulevards. More than 170 cast-iron, twin-fixture light poles lend a handsome grace note. The boardwalk’s intense heart is the amusement zone near the Stillwell Avenue subway terminal, but it’s rewarding everywhere. The only constant is the ocean, where swimmers’ squeals mingle with cries of wheeling gulls. Lonely and teeming by turns, the boardwalk brushes shoulders with the private Sea Gate enclave, the New York Aquarium, where a new $146 million exhibition — Ocean Wonders: Sharks! — opens June 30, and open-air Russian cafes in Brighton Beach, where a gut-busting, four-course lunch is all of $19.95. The boardwalk’s colorful, polyglot life today is a far cry from the years when it was largely abandoned by the middle class, and crime and decay reigned. The Parachute Jump’s rusted hulk towered over empty lots like the totem of an ancient civilization. “In its heyday at the turn of the previous century, Coney Island was the ultimate example of individualism and ingenuity. What’s remarkable is its survival instinct,” says Stephen M. Silverman, author of “The Amusement Park: 900 Years of Spills & Thrills,” due out from Hachette next spring. Silverman noted that Coney Island suffered “from fires, one after the other. Then from the ravages of the Depression, followed by almost unrivaled urban decay. Now, it’s a great place to catch a ball game, dip into the past on the Cyclone and Wonder Wheel, and experience a polyglot experience steeped in American tradition. And I’m not just talking hot dogs.” Coney Island in the early 20th century boasted three distinct amusement parks: Luna Park, Steeplechase Park and Dreamland. Luna Park alone glowed under 250,000 electric lights. Visitors enjoyed primitive, Las Vegas-style spectacles like rides to the moon, an entire “midget city” and fields of free-roaming wild animals. The golden era, or the idea of it, has a mythic hold on the New York imagination. In Woody Allen’s “Annie Hall,” Alvy Singer recalls growing up under a Coney Island roller coaster. There really was a house under the original Thunderbolt, which closed in 1982 and stood fenced and forlorn until it was demolished in 2000. The peninsula inspired poet Lawrence Ferlinghetti’s “A Coney Island of the Mind,” as well as “Coney Island Troubadour,” Woody Guthrie’s odes to Mermaid Avenue, where he once lived (“where the lox and bagels meet . . . where the beer flows to the ocean/where the wine runs to the sea”). But darkness, too, lurked behind the shimmering lights. The Spanish writer Federico García Lorca’s posthumous 1940 collection, “The Poet in New York,” included a cheerfully dystopian work, “Landscape of a Vomiting Multitude (Dusk at Coney Island).” The surreal weirdness extended beyond freak shows featuring human oddities like “Four-Legged Girl” Josephine Myrtle Corbin, who also reputedly had two pelvises and two vaginas. Violence-prone Topsy the Elephant was executed by electricity at Luna Park on Jan. 4, 1903. The poor creature was fitted with copper-lined sandals and fried to death in front of thousands of reporters and spectators, some of whom paid to watch from rooftops. Grainy film of the sickening spectacle survives on YouTube. But no image exists of Coney Island’s most notorious demise. FBI snitch Abe Reles was to testify against mobster Albert Anastasia. To keep Reles safe, he was guarded by a platoon of cops on the sixth floor of the Half Moon Hotel on the boardwalk at West 29th Street. But on Nov. 12, 1941, Reles either jumped or was pushed out the window — inspiring the famous line, “This canary could sing, but couldn’t fly.” Coney Island started losing its juice after World War II. “Master builder” Robert Moses, to drive fun-seekers to his new Long Island beach parks via his new highways, promoted construction of low-income housing behind the boardwalk. Two parks, Luna Park and Dreamland, closed. But it was left to developer Fred Trump to administer the near-fatal blow. He secretly bought Steeplechase from its money-losing owners and held a “demolition party.” As Politico describes it, “On a rainy Sept. 21, 1966, as models in bikinis posed for pictures in the oversized shovel of a bulldozer, a grinning Trump held an ax and prodded his guests to whip bricks through the signature stained glass ‘funny face’ on the facade of the park’s pavilion.” Later that night, he bulldozed what remained to the ground. Trump never got city approval to build apartments and sold the land. Coney Island soon tail-spun into chaos along with the rest of the city. But a handful of “pillars” had just enough appeal to get Coney Island through the grim years, says George Shea, the host and a producer of the annual Nathan’s July 4th hot dog eating contest. The Wonder Wheel, the Cyclone, 100-year-old Italian restaurant Gargiulo’s and Nathan’s Famous “were the spine that still drew people,” he said. When Shea first got involved with competitive hot dog eating in the 1980s, “there were lots of homeless people all around, it was a very gritty scene.” Things started looking up when then-Mayor Rudy Giuliani dispatched the NYPD to restore order to the boardwalk. Not only the muggers were curbed — in 1998, I watched cops order a 30-foot-long snake back into its owner’s very large container. Giuliani also brought baseball’s minor-league Brooklyn Cyclones to a new stadium. Even so, some of the creepy old spirit endured in the new millennium. Shea recalls a ghastly “attraction” that opened in 2000 called Shoot the Freak — Live Human Target. “There was an empty lot between two buildings behind the boardwalk, like a gap tooth filled with rubble and cement,” Shea said. “In that area was a guy with a mask on and a horror outfit. He’d run around and you shot him with a paintball for $5.” It made violence seem like fun just 10 years after the city suffered a record 2,245 murders. Shoot the Freak got the boot in 2010, when then-Mayor Mike Bloomberg lured Italian amusement park designer Zamperla to launch a new Luna Park and also to operate the Cyclone next door. More thrills followed. A new Thunderbolt’s 115-foot vertical drop, 1,000-foot-long vertical loop and 80-foot-long zero-gravity roll made a Cyclone ride seem as smooth to some riders as an airport people-mover, although some still prefer the rickety wooden classic. Mayor Bill de Blasio is trying to expand the amusement area even more. The Parachute Jump, although it won’t ever run again, is spectacularly lit at night. Wholesome tastes of the long-ago Coney can still be found at Tom’s Coney Island cafe, on the boardwalk since 1936, and Williams Candy Shop, which has been on Surf Avenue for more than 75 years. But best of all, the boardwalk is safe forever — if not from another Sandy, at least from any future Fred Trump.
Just when you thought this Barr couldn’t go lower… ABC pulled the plug on its hit ’90s revival “Roseanne” Tuesday hours after star and creator Roseanne Barr went on a racist Twitter rant that drew immediate coast-to-coast scorn and sharp rebukes from her co-stars and network. “Roseanne’s Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values and we have decided to cancel her show,” ​ABC Entertainment president Channing Dungey said in a statement. The network swung the axe swiftly over Barr’s tweets — in which she compared former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett to ​an ape and called billionaire George Soros a “Nazi” who “turned in his fellow Jews.” “Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj,” Barr, who played brash matriarch Roseanne Conner on the show, wrote in one tweet aimed at Jarrett, which she later deleted. Then, after falsely claiming that Chelsea ​Clinton ​is married to Soros’ nephew, Barr responded with an “apology” that included a conspiracy-mongering rant about the Democratic megadonor. “Sorry to have tweeted incorrect info about you!I Please forgive me! By the way, George Soros is a nazi who turned in his fellow Jews 2 be murdered in German concentration camps & stole their wealth-were you aware of that? But, we all make mistakes, right Chelsea?” Barr wrote. “Soros’ goal; the overthrow of us constitutional republic by buying/backing candidates 4 local district attorney races who will ignore US law & favor ‘feelings’ instead-and call everyone who is alarmed by that ‘racist’,” she added in a follow-up tweet. In response, ABC and Hulu also yanked the reboot from their streaming platforms, Viacom pulled all reruns from its networks, and Barr’s talent agency ICM Partners dropped her as a client. Robert Iger, chairman and CEO of Disney, which owns ABC, addressed the abrupt move on Twitter. “There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing,” he said. The cancellation is a costly move for ABC — the network had already booked $22.7 million in ads for season of the revival, according to NBC News. The wildly popular first season — a continuation of the hit sitcom (1988-’97) about the working-class Conner family and starring most of the original cast, including John Goodman and Laurie Metcalf — debuted to a massive 18.2 million viewers in March and became one of the most expensive primetime comedies for advertisers. Barr played a staunch supporter of President Trump in the show’s revival, and the commander in chief called the comedian to congratulate her on the premiere’s ratings. When pitching to ad buyers just two weeks ago, ABC brought Barr up on stage to laud the show’s success — where Disney-ABC TV president Ben Sherwood quipped that Barr “really writes most of my tweets,” according to the Hollywood Reporter. Dungey, the first black entertainment president of a major broadcast network, boasted that the reboot had been watched by “one in 10 Americans.” But the network and its hit show were facing nearly universal backlash that snowballed Tuesday afternoon when ​​comic Wanda Sykes announced she was quitting as consulting producer. Sara Gilbert — who played Barr’s TV daughter Darlene Conner ​in both iterations of the show — ​then slammed the remarks as “abhorrent.” “I am disappointed in her actions to say the least,” Gilbert tweeted just before the cancellation was announced. Actress Emma Kenney, who played Barr’s on-screen granddaughter on the revival, said she’d tried to quit the show over the “racist and distasteful” tweets, but was told it had already been cancelled. “I am hurt, embarrassed, and disappointed. The racist and distasteful comments from Roseanne are inexcusable,” the 18-year-old actress tweeted. Jarrett responded by saying she’s “fine” but wants to turn the saga into a “teaching moment” about racism that others endure every day. “I’m fine, I’m worried about all the people out there who don’t have a circle of friends and followers coming to their defense,” she told MSNBC Tuesday. A spokesman for Soros called the tweets about him “an affront to Mr. Soros and his family” and “insulting to the victims of the Holocaust, to all Jewish people, and to anyone who honors the truth.” Asked about the brouhaha, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Trump was too busy with North Korea and trade deals. “We have a lot bigger things going on in the country right now,” she said before he spoke at a rally in Nashville, Tenn. Meanwhile, Obama’s former national security adviser and ex-UN Ambassador Susan Rice noted that Barr called her “a man with big swinging ape balls” way back in 2013 — retweeting a screengrab of the disgraced comedian’s original tweet.
It was 1988 in Petal, Mississippi, and I was in love. My third-grade student teacher, Ms. Smith, had stolen my heart. Ms. Smith was pretty, with her long brown hair and that tiny ponytail on the top of her head that poofed up. But it was more than her looks that made me swoon – Ms. Smith liked me. That wasn’t always the case with my teachers, and for good reason. I was hard to manage, especially in third grade. That was the year I wrote an ugly poem about a chubby classmate, called my girlfriend a curse word that I won’t repeat here and ended up in the principal’s office multiple times. Basically, I was a problem child, but not to Ms. Smith. Ms. Smith treated me like I was her star student, so I acted like it. I paid attention when she taught, did my classwork with vigor and I even asked her to tutor me in math – whatever it took to spend more time with her. But even Ms. Smith couldn’t cure my propensity to misbehave. To this day, I feel bad about the day we learned how to send letters in the mail. We all lined up in front of this large, blue, cardboard mailbox Ms. Smith had made. One by one, each student dropped their letter in the mailbox until I walked up with my letter, put it in, gave the mailbox a little kick and said, “Worthless.” I told you I was a problem child. Ms. Smith put my name on the chalkboard, leaving me feeling devastated. I had hurt my favorite teacher and I was ashamed, but not for long. I was back in Ms. Smith’s good graces within the hour. I don’t know what happened to Ms. Smith. I heard that she went off to do some missionary work. There’s a part of me that hopes she will somehow read this column, recognize my photo and get in touch with me. I realize the chances of that are low, but just in case she’s out there somewhere reading this, here’s what I’d like to say: Thank you, Ms. Smith. When you came to my third-grade class, I saw myself as a problem child, and I had plenty of evidence to back it up. I also had teachers who reinforced that idea – not you though. Everything about you – your smile, the way you spoke to me, the compliments you gave – they brought out the best in me (most of the time). Granted, I didn’t know what a difference you were making and maybe you didn’t either, but you were one of the adults who helped rewrite my story early on. I didn’t have to be a problem child. I could be one of the good kids. You helped me believe that was possible. You know who you remind me of, Ms. Smith? You remind me of Jesus, who said, “Let the little children come unto Me” – even the difficult children. I came to you for the same reason those children came to Jesus: He felt like a safe person, and somehow they knew He loved them. Whether you knew it or not, that’s how this little boy felt with you. There’s no greater gift you could’ve given, and thank God for the innumerable other teachers who are giving that same gift every day. I want to thank all of you too. You’ve got these growing kids who are interacting with you every day and figuring out whether they have value and dignity. Your actions and words say, “Yes, you do.” Those kids may never track you down and show their gratitude. They may not even remember you, but mark my words: You planted a seed and it’s growing inside of them. Thanks to you, those kids are a little more likely to believe that they’ve got potential and that they’re loveable. You got into this to be a teacher. What greater lesson could your students learn?
Google briefly listed “Nazism” as an official ideology of the California Republican Party, due to the search engine’s dependence on unreliable information from Wikipedia. Until earlier today, a Google search for the California Republican Party brought up a list of ideologies in the “knowledge panel” that sometimes appears on the right-hand side of search results. These ideologies included “Nazism, Conservatism, Market liberalism, fiscal conservatism, green conservatism.” The story was first reported by Vice. Sadly, this is just the latest incident in a disturbing trend to slander conservatives. These damaging actions must be held to account. #StopTheBias https://t.co/6ztyuc772s — Kevin McCarthy (@GOPLeader) May 31, 2018 After press coverage and attention from House Majority Leader Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), the “ideology” infobox section has now disappeared. Searches for other California parties, like the California Green Party, still show an “ideology” infobox. Other state GOP parties also display the infobox. The information for these boxes appears to have been sourced from Wikipedia. The edit history of the California Republican party shows that someone edited the party’s Wikipedia page to include “Nazism” among its ideologies. Responding to Rep. McCarthy, Google confirmed that “Wikipedia vandalism” was the cause of the problem. We regret that vandalism on Wikipedia briefly appeared on our search results. This was not the the result of a manual change by Google. We have systems in place that catch vandalism before it impacts search results, but occasionally errors get through, and that happened here. — Google Communications (@Google_Comms) May 31, 2018 This would have been fixed systematically once we processed the removal from Wikipedia, but when we noticed the vandalism we worked quickly to accelerate the removal of the erroneous information. — Google Communications (@Google_Comms) May 31, 2018 As Breitbart News has documented before, Wikipedia pages are often biased smear-jobs, the result of partisan editing by anonymous, unaccountable contributors to the site. Nevertheless, big tech companies continue to give information from Wikipedia a privileged position on their platforms — not just next to Google searches but also YouTube videos and Facebook posts. Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.
President Trump announced Thursday morning he will grant conservative author, successful filmmaker and thought leader Dinesh D'Souza a full pardon. D'Souza pleaded guilty to violating campaign finance law in 2014. While he avoided prison, he was sentenced to 8-months service in a halfway house. "Today, President Donald J. Trump issued an Executive Grant of Clemency (Full Pardon) to Dinesh D’Souza, an accomplished author, lecturer, and scholar," Press Secretary Sarah Sanders released in a statement. "Mr. D’Souza was, in the President’s opinion, a victim of selective prosecution for violations of campaign finance laws. Mr. D’Souza accepted responsibility for his actions, and also completed community service by teaching English to citizens and immigrants seeking citizenship." In light of these facts, the President has determined that Mr. D’Souza is fully worthy of this pardon Will be giving a Full Pardon to Dinesh D’Souza today. He was treated very unfairly by our government! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018 Documents obtained by Townhall in 2014 showed prosecutors from Attorney General Eric Holder's Justice Department misled a federal judge in order to pursue prison time for D'Souza. According to court documents, federal prosecutors working on behalf of Attorney General Eric Holder and the Department of Justice misled U.S. District Court Judge Richard Berman in the case against conservative filmmaker and author Dinesh D’Souza during their pursuit of 10-to-16 months of prison time for a federal felony charge. In a reply sentencing memo submitted to the Court on behalf of D'Souza last week, his counsel argues federal prosecutors excluded and misrepresented the facts of “similar” cases in the Government's sentencing proposal to Judge Berman, leaving out crucial facts key to fair and equal sentencing for D’Souza compared to other cases. The prosecution has a duty to present comparable cases and crimes when arguing for a prison sentence. In their presentation of “similar” cases to the Judge for consideration during his deliberation, the prosecution ignored all truly similar cases without prison time but did present cases that included prison time without a full set of facts to justify sentencing. “The Government, in this case, has chosen to consciously omit from its submission critical facts from most of the cases they cite which make it clear that those cases are substantially distinguishable from the facts in D’Souza’s prosecution,” the memo states. D'Souza eventually pleaded guilty in the case. From the court room at the time: Author and conservative filmmaker Dinesh D'Souza plead guilty this morning to one count on federal charges detailed in an indictment accusing him of violating campaign finance laws and making false statements. D'Souza admitted in front of the U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, that he did in fact ask two people to make contributions in their name and later reimbursed them, knowing it was not proper under the law. D'Souza submitted a plea deal on May 19 and the charge of making false statements was dropped. Judge Richard Berman accepted his guilty plea today and set a sentencing date for September 23, 2014. The government argued attorneys would be able to prove beyond a reasonable doubt the defendant, D'Souza, is guilty. There will be no trial by jury in this case. "Guilty your honor," D'Souza said, adding that he deeply regrets his actions. "The plea is now accepted and Mr. D'Souza is now guilty under the indictment," Berman replied. By entering a guilty plea, D'Souza waived his right to appeal and his right to sentence modification or reduction. He faces a maximum of two years in prison, three years supervised release and a $250,000 fine. There is no parole in the federal system. His right to vote, right to hold public office, right to possess a firearm and right to sit on a jury have been revoked. "Mr. D'Souza agreed to accept responsibility for having urged two close associates to make contributions of $10,000 each to the unsuccessful 2012 senate campaign of Wendy Long and then reimbursing them for their contributions. Given the technical nature of the charge, there was no viable defense," D'Souza Attorneys Benjamin Brafman and Alex Spiro said in a statement. "We are hopeful that Judge Berman will recognize Mr. D'Souza to be a fundamentally honorable man who should not be imprisoned for what was an isolated instance of wrongdoing in an otherwise productive and responsible life." Judge Berman said in the courtroom that he will consider D'Souza's character and history in his sentencing. Earlier this year, D'Souza plead not guilty and was released on $500,000 bond. This is a developing story, stay tuned for updates. This story has been updated with additional information.
A onetime Vogue staffer has been ​arrested and charged with stealing more than $50,000 from renowned model and former Vogue creative director​-at​-large Grace Coddington, sources told The Post. Dublin-born Yvonne Bannigan, who worked as an assistant for the flame-haired catwalk and fashion icon before she was arrested, rang up $53,564 in unauthorized purchases on the former editor’s credit card, according to court documents and a law enforcement source. Bannigan ran up the obscene tab before she was arrested in April 2018, the criminal complaint​ alleges​. She’s also accused of selling property belonging to Coddington — identified in court papers as “Informant 1” — on online luxury consignment store TheRealReal, and kept the $9,000 of commission for herself. The 25-year-old​ says on her LinkedIn ​page that before she worked for Coddington, she interned at ELLE ​magazine. Bannigan also appeared in a Teen Vogue spread alongside Coddington in September 2016. The former fashion assistant faces felony charges of second and third-degree grand larceny. “We believe there’s been a misunderstanding which we hope will be sorted out,” attorney Michael Cornacchia said. “She has prior no record, and she’s a naturalized US citizen.” “She didn’t do anything wrong,” he added.
A former Citigroup broker swindled elderly investors out of more than $11 million in retirement savings after he made bad bets on the stock market, according to a criminal indictment unsealed on Wednesday. New York Attorney General Barbara Underwood — in her first press conference since she succeeded Eric Schneiderman, who resigned this month amid a slew of lurid sex abuse allegations — charged ex-investment adviser Dean Mustaphalli with 99 counts of securities fraud, grand larceny, forgery, and fabricating business documents. The victims included nurses, shopkeepers and municipal workers, and they all had given the majority of their cash — in many cases well into six figures — to Mustaphalli, Underwood said. They’ve only gotten back 20 cents on the dollar. “They has played by the rules, putting away a few dollars here and there, to make sure they had enough for a relatively comfortable retirement,” Underwood said at the press conference in downtown Manhattan. “They were not big-time investors.” Mustaphalli, 48, allegedly forged clients’ signatures in order to funnel their cash into his own hedge fund. The Queens manager had even made up email addresses for some of the retirees, even though a few didn’t know how to use a computer, Underwood said. But Mustaphalli made bad, complex investments — including a wrong-way bet on the price of MasterCard’s stock using options — and ended up losing as much as 98 percent of the money. The charges are an escalation of enforcement against Mustaphalli. Last year, then-AG Schneiderman filed a civil suit against the broker for defrauding clients. Mustaphalli faces as much as 20 years behind bars for the criminal charges.
'Made in USA' Used to Mean Something: Tomi Lahren Says Trump Must Act to Help Cattle Ranchers Maxine Waters to PA Rep: 'I Resent the Remark About Making America Great Again' It’s been a great and productive week for our president, and for our country. Which means it’s been a rather bitter week for ISIS, Iranian mullahs, the fake news media, Democrats, Never-Trumpers ... and Barack Obama’s legacy. It’s time for Final Thoughts. Here are the week's highlights: Withdrawal from the deeply flawed Iran deal, the release of three US citizens from North Korean prison, the capture of five top ISIS officials, and the confirmation hearing of Gina Haspel, who when confirmed will become the first female director in CIA history. That’s quite a run for our president - the man Democrats and mainstream media hacks warned would be a “diplomatic disaster.” On the first point, the Iran Deal was never as much a deal as it was a list of concessions paving Iran’s yellow brick road to a nuclear arsenal. But no longer will we hand them under-the-table ransom cash payments, or billions in sanction relief – all to develop their nukes and their exported terrorism. I don’t know who was more upset by the withdrawal, the flag-burning, “death-to-America”-chanting Iranians, or our very own American Democrats... Now I know what you’re thinking: Jeff Flake is a Republican. Well, if Senator Snowflake thinks it’s in the “national interest” to give relief to state sponsors of terror, to me he’s just as much a Democrat as Nancy Pelosi, or Elizabeth Warren. But he wasn’t the only Never-Trumper to show his true colors this week. Senator John McCain pushed the effort to torpedo Haspel. Why tank perhaps the most qualified person ever nominated for the post? Well, she may or may not have been too mean to al-Qaeda terrorists. Good luck explaining that to the American people - particularly the family members of those killed by terrorists. I expect these shenanigans from the Democrats and mainstream media - who spent much of the week covering the porn star. But I didn’t expect it from noted Republicans. If they consistently repeat the same talking points as Crumbs Pelosi and Chuck Schumer ... are they really capable of putting America First? Or is this just about their Never-Trump bitterness? We’d like to know. Despite the negativity and sour grapes, this week our president did what he does best: Keep his promises. He had promised to dismantle ISIS, and deal with North Korea. Under his leadership, ISIS was driven out of their power bases in Syria in Iraq - months ago - even before we captured five of their leaders. And now the president has secured the release of the former prisoners in North Korea - without sacrificing anything in return. That’s what happens when our commander-in-chief leads from the front, and a place of strength. He may have had several victories this week, sure. But we - the American people - are the real winners. Those are my Final Thoughts. From LA, God Bless and take care. Tomi Lahren on Michelle Wolf's Performance: 'Trump Didn’t Create Leftist Media’s Ugly Side, He Just Exposed It' Tomi Lahren to Conservatives, Trump Supporters: 'Don't Attach Yourself to Kanye'
The U.S. will impose tariffs on steel and aluminum from the European Union, Canada and Mexico, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross announced Thursday morning. A steep 25 percent tariff on foreign-made steel and a 10 percent tariff on aluminum will go into effect at midnight, he told reporters, explaining that negotiations failed to make enough progress to warrant a permanent exception. The EU, Canada and Mexico were temporarily granted an exception after President Donald Trump announced the Section 232 tariffs in March. The move risks a potential trade war with a number of key allies and international partners, some of which have already threatened to retaliate. The EU will take “all necessary measures” to respond to American trade actions should the U.S. decide to levy “unjustified and dangerous” tariffs, French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire previously warned, the BBC reported. TRENDING: Appeals Court Upholds Currency Standards, ‘In God We Trust’ Will Continue To Be Printed German Chancellor Angela Merkel stressed Thursday that the EU would give a “smart, determined and jointly agreed” response to U.S. actions. “We have a clear stance within the European Union,” she explained. The EU has threatened to impose billions of dollars in tariffs on American exports, such as whiskey and motorcycles. Canada and Mexico, which are currently in negotiations on the North American Free Trade Agreement, have similarly hinted at retaliatory actions. Is implementing these tariffs a good idea? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Ross explained the tariffs are intended to defend American national security interests. “We take the view that without a strong economy, you can’t have strong national security,” the secretary said. He previously suggested that targeted countries should come to the table and negotiate with the U.S. fairly on trade to secure permanent exceptions from tariffs. “We look forward to continued negotiations, both with Canada and Mexico on the one hand, and with the European Commission on the other hand, because there are other issues that we also need to get resolved,” Ross said Thursday, without going into details about what the EU, Canada and Mexico could do to avoid tariffs. While the primary focus is China, the Trump administration remains committed to addressing overcapacity and dumping concerns in other countries as well. RELATED: Retired FBI Officials Claim Halper’s ‘Highly Irregular’ Media Contacts Pose Major Problem A version of this article appeared on The Daily Caller News Foundation website. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallern ewsfoundation.org. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
Rolling Stone is beefing up its music, politics and pop culture as its new owner gets ready to pump in an estimated $8 million to $10 million in a redesign to be unveiled in July. “If you want to do it right, it costs money,” said Jay Penske, whose Penske Media took over majority control of the title from Jann Wenner, paying an estimated $51 million last December. While founder Wenner placated the aging baby boom generation, many have criticized him for missing the hip-hop revolution in recent years while that magazine was trying to cover everything from gaming to pro wrestling. “We’re going to be staying in three lanes: music in all the genres that matter, politics and pop culture,” Penske said. Among the new hires is Andy Kroll, most recently at Mother Jones, where he worked on investigations into Cambridge Analytica. He is joining as the DC bureau chief, the first time in a dozen years the magazine has had a full-time staffer in the nation’s capital. The publication already counts as political news editor John Hendrickson, who joined earlier this year. Alan Sepinwall — who wrote the best-selling book “The Revolution Was Televised” and who did the popular Hitfix podcast “Firewall and Iceberg” with Daniel Fienberg — is joining as the magazine’s chief TV critic. Both new hires — Sepinwall and Kroll — report to managing editor Jason Fine, who took over the top editorial job in 2015 when Will Dana was forced out in the wake of the University of Virginia fake fraternity rape story, which cost the magazine $1.56 million. Since the acquisition of 51 percent of Wenner Media, a Penske-led hiring spree has added Brendan Klinkenberg from Complex Media as a senior editor covering hip-hop; Jamil Smith, poached from the Los Angeles Times, as a senior writer; and Elias Leight as a music reporter. As part of its relaunch, the magazine plans to develop branded events, and in March tapped Amber Mundinger to be senior VP, live media and strategic partnerships. “We’ve probably grown editorial by 15 percent since the acquisition,” Penske said.
The Justice Department’s (DOJ) Special Counsel’s Office (SCO), under which Robert Mueller and his “Russia investigation” operate, issued its required biannual spending report, showing a significant increase in the investigation’s spending rate. The report indicates the SCO spent $4,506,624 in the period from October 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018, while other DOJ components spent $5,476,000 in the same time frame in support of Mueller’s investigation, yielding a total of $9,982,624. The figure represents an 11 percent increase in the rate of spending compared to the SCO’s first reporting period — May 17, 2017 to September 30, 2017 — when spending totaled a combined $6,759,695 over that shorter period. The largest line item, as during the last period, was personnel compensation and benefits, amounting to $2,738,131. Second was “Rent, Communications, and Utilities” at $886,403. The SCO spent $532,340 on travel, the vast majority of which was “temporary duty relocation of DOJ employees detailed to the SCO.” The exact boundaries of the Mueller investigation have never been made clear to the public. More came to light with the release of a redacted “scope memo” issued by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein in the course of the prosecution of one of the indicted targets of the investigation, Paul Manafort. The judge in one of Manafort’s trials demanded and has now received an unredacted version of that memo. While ostensibly aimed at Russian election interference and “collusion” between the 2016 Trump campaign and Russian agents, reports continue to indicate the true focus of the investigation is supposed obstruction of justice by President Donald Trump and his administration. The president has referred to this tactic as a “trap.” According to President Trump’s defense attorney, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, however, Mueller’s office has assured him they agree with traditional thinking that a sitting president cannot be indicted. Giuliani said Wednesday that Mueller should conclude his investigation by this September. The move was reminiscent of Giuliani’s predecessor, Ty Cobb, who continually set suggested deadlines for the investigation, all of which Mueller and his team disregarded.
High rents aren’t to blame for empty storefronts — but just about everything else is, according to the Real Estate Board of New York. A new survey by the lobbying organization compared two popular Manhattan shopping and eating districts. It found that the West Village vacancy rate is more than twice as high as in Hell’s Kitchen even though Village rents are little more than 1 percent higher. Retail vacancy is 11.3 percent in three prime West Village corridors comprising 284 storefronts, versus a mere 5 percent on Hell’s Kitchen’s main drag of Ninth Avenue with 262 total stores, according to REBNY. Yet the number crunchers say rents in the two areas are roughly comparable — $139 per square foot on Ninth Avenue between West 42nd and 59th streets, and $150 to $155 per square foot on Seventh Avenue South and Hudson Street, two of the three West Village corridors covered in the survey. Douglas Elliman’s Faith Hope Consolo cited somewhat higher “asks,” but her two sets of figures, like REBNY’s, were in the same ballpark relative to each other — $170 to $190 per square foot on Ninth Avenue and $175 to $225 on the West Village streets. Property owners are on edge because the City Council recently revived a 32-year-old proposal to replace free-market negotiations between landlords and store tenants with guaranteed lease renewals with prices subject only to “arbitration.” The rent-control measure sponsored by council member Ydanis Rodriguez, misleadingly named the “Small Business Jobs Survival Act,” was first introduced in 1986. It never went anywhere, but it’s back thanks to the scourge of empty storefronts — even though the surge in online shopping has devastated retail businesses across the country. Among many howls over the bill, the Council of New York Cooperatives & Condominiums warned recently it would cripple the city’s 1,525 co-op apartment buildings that rely on market-rate rent income from 6.5 million square feet of stores in the buildings, Crain’s New York Business reported. Even if the REBNY spin doctors cherry-pick data to go easy on landlords, the new findings suggest how complicated it can be. Organization head John H. Banks told us, “A lot of different issues go into whether or not someone occupies retail space. One reason why retail leasing might not be doing well in a particular neighborhood is simply how many people are there.” In his view, one reason why businesses increasingly prefer Hell’s Kitchen to the West Village is sheer demographics. Surprisingly, Hell’s Kitchen has more customers. Thanks to new construction, its population soared 9 percent from 2000 to 2016, when it reached 29,157 households, according to the US Census. The West Village lost 9.7 percent of households over the same period (down to 20,213 in 2016), according to the Census. How did that happen? Thank the area’s historic-district status. While some brownstones that once housed multiple families were being converted into single-family residences, landmarks rules make new construction nearly impossible. The report also cites other factors that discourage opening a streetfront business along Greenwich and Seventh Avenue South and on Hudson Street. Because they lie in a historic district, 88.8 percent of properties require Landmarks Preservation Commission approval for minor alterations such as putting up new signs. In Hell’s Kitchen, fewer than 1 percent of properties are similarly designated. In the West Village, it takes an average 169 days to receive a storefront permit from the LPC — whereas virtually no such permits are needed in Hell’s Kitchen. Many storefronts in both neighborhoods are used for restaurants and bars. Cushman & Wakefield broker Steven Soutendijk, the chairman of REBNY’s retail committee, said, “When the retail landscape is in a period of transition, we should be looking for ways to help, not hinder our restaurants and cafes. Not all neighborhoods are equal. The regulatory requirements imposed by certain community boards are having a stifling effect on small businesses.” According to REBNY, Community Board 2 shoots down more than 25 percent of liquor license applications in the East Village, while CB 4 rejects only 4 percent in Hell’s Kitchen. The East Village board also imposes many more conditions on liquor applicants — including “closed windows at all times” and no TVs — than its Hell’s Kitchen counterpart. Consolo corroborated REBNY’s position on that score, too. “In Hell’s Kitchen, the community board is mostly cooperative and embraces new business and is flexible on operating hours. Nighttime business flourishes,” she said. But in the West Village, nighttime restrictions on hours make it “difficult at best” for restaurants. On top of all that, CB2 wants a zoning change to require an additional special permit for new restaurants, bars and clubs — which would add seven to nine months to the review process.
A tiger doesn’t change its stripes — and neither does a foul-mouthed star named Roseanne Barr, whose comeback story of the TV season became its biggest disaster on Tuesday. That’s when ABC quickly axed her rebooted “Roseanne” sitcom — huge ratings be damned — after Barr’s vile tweet comparing former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett to the offspring of the “muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes.” And that was only one in a string of her bats–t crazy rants in a late-night/early morning tweetstorm. It was only a few weeks back that ABC, riding high on those “Roseanne” numbers, quickly renewed the series for a second season — with network group president Ben Sherwood asking advertisers at the ABC upfront presentation for a round of applause for “a woman who has always done it her way.” Truer words have seldom been spoken. Barr does things her own way, and on Tuesday she cut her own throat, with ABC calling her tweets “abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values.” It wasn’t like ABC wasn’t forewarned regarding Barr’s shenanigans. Shame on them for ignoring the warning signs, of which they were well aware some 30 years ago, when they first aired the original “Roseanne” (1988-97). Barr, 65, has been a live wire for years — a female Charlie Sheen — indulging in conspiracy theories and strident political opinions. The original run of “Roseanne” included her tumultuous romance with Tom Arnold, her erratic behavior resulting in a steady exodus of show staffers and scandals — including her grabbing her crotch after screeching “The Star-Spangled Banner” during a Padres game in July 1990. (President George HW Bush called her rendition “disgraceful.”) Back then, no one argued with the star of a hit show. ABC, tiring of Barr’s antics and the show’s dwindling ratings, cancelled “Roseanne” in 1997. But that didn’t stop the combustible Barr from acting out. In 2009, she posed as Adolf Hitler for the satirical publication Heeb (for an article entitled “That Oven Feelin’ ”) — then was sued five years later by the parents of George Zimmerman, acquitted in the shooting death of unarmed teen Trayvon Martin. She tweeted out their home address and phone number; they sued her for allegedly causing “a lynch mob” to descend on their home. (The claims were dismissed). Last summer, when the nine-episode pickup of “Roseanne” was celebrated in LA, ABC President Channing Dungey assured suspicious journalists that the network could handle its volatile star. “[Roseanne] actually publicly announced a few weeks ago that her son is going to be taking over her Twitter feed for the near future,” Dungey said. “We did not ask her to do that, but she did make that decision.” ABC’s cancellation of “Roseanne” was followed Tuesday by talent agency ICM Partners dropping Barr as a client. The message: Go back to your macadamia-nut farm and STFU. Like Rosie O’Donnell before her, Roseanne Barr is her own worst enemy who just can’t leave well enough alone and constantly sabotages herself. When we look back on the entertainers wiped from the screen for their revolting behavior, we’re not likely to miss them. In Barr’s case, her stay this time was so brief we may not remember that she was there at all.
As the immigration debate hit another low last week, I received the news that my favorite immigrant died: my father-in-law, Paul Gavora. I don’t want to politicize Paul’s story too much, or really at all. For me, the man wasn’t a talking point; he was a hero. Still, one of the things about today’s immigration debate that breaks my heart is how both sides have lost the plot. There are legitimate policy arguments on all sides, but the story of immigration is getting slaughtered in the crossfire. Consider my father-in-law. Born Vladimir Gavora in 1931, in the then-Czechoslovakian (today just Slovakian) village of Brezova pod Bradlom, Vlad grew up fast. When he was 7, the Germans invaded. When he was 13, his father died. The same year, the Red Army moved in. He saw things then he didn’t like to talk about. In 10th grade, he was expelled for questioning Communist doctrine in class. In his day, it was the teachers who were snowflakes. Expulsion slammed a door on any future he might have had at home. So in 1948, he swam the Danube by moonlight to escape the Communists. He made it to an Austrian refugee camp, where they sent him to Germany to finish high school. Colorado State University offered him a scholarship. To get there, he signed on as a hand on a United Nations refugee ship. During a storm of biblical proportions, he was tasked with preventing panicking passengers from rushing to the top deck for air. He was tied to the railing and given a billy club to beat the passengers back — for their own good. In college, he changed his name to Paul and met his saintly wife, Donna. He soon transferred to the University of Chicago, where he worked as a milkman while pursuing a joint bachelor’s-master’s degree under Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman. When he heard about a teaching job at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, he and a pregnant Donna packed their three young children in a car and drove north and west. Alas, when he got to still-territorial Alaska, the job fell through. So he returned to his vocation as a milkman. Eventually, he scrimped and borrowed enough money to open a small grocery store of his own in Fairbanks. Then he opened another. Eventually he had seven supermarkets, Fairbanks’ first shopping mall and a wholesale food business that supplied native villages and the Russian far east alike. He also had nine children and invested his time, money and love into his community. Opinions will differ about the takeaway of Paul’s story. For me, one of the most important things is not that he got rich. It’s that the United States gave him a shot to carve out the life that he wanted — and he remained grateful for the opportunity his whole life. Peter Schramm, another immigrant, and a scholar and friend (who passed away not long ago) often told the story of his family’s escape from Hungary after the failed 1958 uprising. “We are going to America,” Peter’s father told him. “Why America?” Peter prodded. “Because, son. We were born Americans but in the wrong place.” Today the conversation about immigration is so toxic in part because we poisonously disagree about what it means to be an American. Thanks to the identity politics of the left and the right, immigrants are increasingly cast either as imported victims ready-made to join the Coalition of the Oppressed or invading “takers,” “rapists” and even “animals.” If White House adviser Stephen Miller has his way, the children of immigrants would be seen as a terrorism threat, which might explain why the Trump administration is snatching babies from their mothers at the border. Of course there’s a kernel of truth to both sides’ awful shouting points on immigrants, but they crowd out the greater truth: Most immigrants, even those who are in the country illegally, aren’t animalistic members of MS-13, nor are they eager to be props for the latest campus debate about intersectionality. Neither victims nor villains, they are human beings desperate to make the most of the American dream as they see it. That’s the immigration story in America: people leaving — or fleeing — the places of their birth for the freedom to try their best. No party owns that story. But each can abandon it.
Jennifer Aniston, the Sydney Australian Symphony Orchestra, Formula One motor racing and the Los Angeles Dodgers all have one thing in common — fat checks from Emirates airlines. In addition to Aniston’s $5 million endorsement deal and $20 million global ad campaign, the airline reportedly dished out $272.25 million for more than 70 sports-related sponsorships in 2013, including Formula One, soccer’s FIFA and World Cup, golf, tennis, sailing, horse racing and is even the Dodgers’ official airline sponsor. “[Emirates is] all over the world with high-priced sponsorships,” said Andrea Fischer Newman, Delta Air Lines senior vice president of government affairs. “Our sponsorship spend pales in comparison.” As for actual air travel, Emirates’ fleet of 85 Airbus A380 widebody aircraft and 160 Boeing 777s makes it the largest operator of both types of planes, the largest airline in the Middle East and the world’s fourth largest in passenger count. Not bad for an airline that’s been around for just 32 years. Newman points out that such lavish spending is a lot easier for government-subsidized airlines that don’t need to cover the true costs of their operations. And the problems go much further than fútbol and Jennifer Aniston. The Partnership for Open and Fair Skies, a coalition of Delta, United and American Airlines, and several air industry labor unions says Emirates, Etihad Airways (UAE’s other airline) and Qatar Airways have gotten $50 billion in government subsidies, grants and loans since 2004. The group says these subsidies distort the market, threaten American jobs and violate international Open Skies Agreements (OSAs.) The U.S. has 120 OSAs with countries around the world, dating back as far as 1992. The bilateral agreements aim to eliminate government interference in commercial airline decisions about fares, routes and capacity in order to create a competitive, freer market. The agreements have been largely successful in liberalizing air services to the benefit of consumers, airlines and economies. A 2015 Brookings Institution study found that the agreements have saved passengers at least $4 billion by stimulating competition that lowered fares 15 percent and increased flight frequency. RELATED: Federally subsidized air service strains meaning of ‘essential’ But coalition spokesperson Jill Zuckman tells Watchdog.org that unlike profit-driven airlines, subsidized Gulf carriers can afford to add vastly more capacity than the demand in their own countries. “It is no accident, for example, that U.S. airlines offer no flights to Qatar or the UAE and only two nonstop flights to India – the second-largest country in the world. Gulf overcapacity has made it commercially non-viable for U.S. airlines to serve either market,” she said. “And the Gulf carriers continue to leech passengers from routes already served by U.S. airlines, failing to stimulate their own demand and instead only feeding off their fair-playing competitors.” Zuckman cites recent data showing international travel on U.S. carriers and their joint venture partners fell sharply after the most recent entries by Gulf carriers in Seattle, with a 21.4 percent drop, 14.3 percent in Washington, D.C., 13.3 percent in Orlando, 13.1 percent in San Francisco, 10.8 percent in Boston, 8.8 percent in Chicago and 7.6 percent in Dallas-Fort Worth. And every route lost or foregone due to Gulf carrier subsidies costs 1,500 U.S. jobs, Zuckman said. The Big Three domestic airlines have spent the past two years appealing to the federal government to address the disparity caused by the Gulf carriers subsidies. The Middle East airlines have repeatedly denied accusations of subsidies and unfair competition. They say U.S. airlines simply want to protect a market that’s slipping away to fast-growing foreign competition. Emirates President Tim Clark has insisted the carrier has not received more than $10 million in seed money, with the company earning profits for 28 straight years. And Qatar Airways CEO Akbar Al Akbar said in a 2015 news release that Gulf carriers’ presence in the U.S. creates rather than destroys American jobs: “Airways passengers support local economies in the US. In 2014 alone, the airline brought 248,000 visitors to the United States and made a significant contribution of $900 million to US economies and employment, all thanks to Open Skies. Qatar Airways currently operates over $19 billion worth of direct-purchase Boeing aircraft with future deliveries of another $50 billion to come.” Government officials from the three countries eventually met last summer but took no formal action, effectively leaving the matter in a holding pattern. But the battle is being drawn anew under President Donald Trump’s watch, and could come to a head within days. On Feb. 1, the CEOs of the domestic Big Three airlines sent a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, urging him to pick up where his predecessors had left off. Then this week, 25 members of Congress from New York and New Jersey sent a letter to Trump insisting that he take quick and decisive action “to defend U.S. interests abroad and ensure that U.S. Airlines and their American workers have a fair and equal opportunity to compete.” The letter asks the president to bar Emirates from the March 12 launch of its new daily flight from Dubai to Newark. (Emirates announced the flight Jan. 23, three days after Trump’s inauguration.) Emirates is also dealing with the PR aftermath of its first annual sales decline in 10 years, prompting the recent Bloomberg headline, “Is Emirates Airline Running out of Sky?” RELATED: Feds may soon yank subsidized air service to Lewistown As the two sides gear up for what could be a decisive confrontation in Washington, one scholar says there’s a third side that’s chronically ignored by politicians and airlines. “When everyone starts talking about leveling the playing field, where are the consumers in all of this?” asks Clifford Winston, Brookings Institute senior fellow and co-author of the 2015 OSA cited above. “The public does not tend to have a representative,” he said in an interview with Watchdog.org. “That’s the tragedy.” Winston adds that given the economic success of the 1970s airline deregulation and OSAs, the U.S. should do something that would likely not fly with Trump — push for one giant, global marketplace. “It’s time to finish the job and open the whole thing up,” he said. “Why is it that GM and Chrysler have to compete with foreign automakers on our soil. Why don’t the carriers have to do that? Pick an industry. We have to take the lead and negotiate and say, ‘open up, and we’ll open up.’”
Facebook may be one of the largest and most influential companies in the world, but things haven’t gone the social media giant’s way in recent months. One can only imagine the kind of questions that came up during Facebook’s annual shareholder meeting on Thursday. Just consider all the scandals the company has been involved in: There were the allegations that Russian groups used the site to sow chaos in the minds of Americans as then-candidates Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton battled it out in the 2016 presidential election. Then, just this past March, Facebook faced more questions, this time due to a scandal involving the leak of 87 million users’ data to Cambridge Analytica, a firm that had ties to the Trump presidential campaign. TRENDING: Melania Intentionally Jabs Media in Health Update Tweet She Knew They’d Cover Regarding the Cambridge Analytica scandal, Facebook and its CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, really had no choice but to admit that the private data of tens of millions of people had been leaked. Zuckerberg spent several days testifying before Congress and tried to assure lawmakers — and the world — that users could once again trust Facebook. Another, lesser-known scandal — though it’s just as important — Facebook has gotten itself caught up in has to do with the social media company’s alleged censorship of conservative viewpoints. For years, Facebook has faced allegations that it suppressed news from conservative outlets. Then, in mid-March, an analysis conducted by The Western Journal revealed that Facebook’s much-publicized demotion of publishers’ content in users’ news feeds negatively impacted conservative-leaning publishers significantly more than liberal-leaning outlets. Needless to say, shareholders were going to have a lot of questions on Thursday for Zuckerberg and the company’s other higher-ups. Do you think Facebook purposefully censors conservative viewpoints? Yes No Continue with Facebook -- or -- Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. Though the meeting was closed to the public, a report from Business Insider suggests Zuckerberg did indeed face questions about a variety of issues, including his company’s alleged censorship of conservatives. “Shareholders peppered Zuckerberg and his fellow executives and board members with questions about their ability and commitment to identify and delete fake accounts and abusive posts, the lack of diversity among Facebook’s executive ranks, and the alleged censorship of conservative voices on its social-networking service,” Business Insider reported. It’s not clear exactly how Zuckerberg responded to these questions, particularly the ones about censorship of conservatives, but it seems that in a lot of ways, he ignored his shareholders’ concerns. “Zuckerberg stuck to his talking points,” Business Insider explained. “In response to the criticisms, Zuckerberg and his colleagues ignored the concerns about the company’s governance and calls for more transparency about its hiring practices.” It would appear that for all his talk of being open to change, Zuckerberg really wants to keep Facebook the way it is. RELATED: Facebook Co-Founder’s Wife Bankrolling Fake News Promoter Shaun King’s Project It’s understandable, in a way. He’s just 34 years old, and he’s already one of the richest men in the world. Why mess with a good thing? The problem is that his shareholders don’t seem to be content with the status quo, but they might not have the power to make a difference. Zuckerberg controls roughly 60 percent of the voting power, so it’s not like he needs approval from the shareholders to do whatever he likes. Thus, as Business Insider noted, “it was no surprise that Facebook’s entire slate of directors was elected and all of the shareholder sponsored proposals were voted down.” Despite the sentiments of the shareholders, Zuckerberg has complete control over his own not-so-little world. And it seems like he will continue to rule in whatever way he pleases. Facebook has greatly reduced the distribution of our stories in our readers' newsfeeds and is instead promoting mainstream media sources. When you share to your friends, however, you greatly help distribute our content. Please take a moment and consider sharing this article with your friends and family. Thank you.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. If you attempt to follow news, then good luck. In our current rapid-response, knee-jerk environment, it's hard to separate real facts from emotionally charged interpretations. There are several questions to ask when trying to figure out what is "news" -- is it new (new information or a new angle), newsworthy (worth spending time and resources on to cover, and to absorb) and/or based on facts? Here are a few recent stories you can practice on: In a May 25 New York Times article titled "Trump Says North Korean Summit may be Rescheduled," reporters Mark Landler and David E. Sanger wrote, "On Thursday, for example, a senior White House official told reporters that even if the meeting were reinstated, holding it on June 12 would be impossible, given the lack of time and the amount of planning needed." President Trump tweeted in response, "The Failing @nytimes quotes 'a senior White House official,' who doesn't exist, as saying 'even if the meeting were reinstated, holding it on June 12 would be impossible, given the lack of time and the amount of planning needed.' WRONG AGAIN! Use real people, not phony sources." Later it came out that the briefing had been given by Matthew Pottinger, the top official in National Security Council for Asia. Pottinger had replied regarding whether the potential date could be met, "The ball is in North Korea's court right now. And there's really not a lot of time. ...But there's a certain amount of actual dialogue that needs to take place at the working level with your counterparts to ensure that the agenda is clear in the minds of those two leaders when they sit down to actually meet and talk and negotiate, and hopefully make a deal. And June 12 is in 10 minutes, and it's going to be, you know." While the source did exist (Pottinger), the source did not say the meeting was impossible as reported (well, interpreted) by The New York Times. Or, since there was no source who said what was reported, no such source existed? This story was news, newsworthy, but resorted to interpretation rather than facts. Second story. This past Sunday, the New York Times ran an article by Christina Caron, "'OMG This is Wrong,' Retired English Teacher Marks up a White House Letter and Sends it back." The headline, crafted to draw attention, belied the information that was buried below. "However, a style manual for the federal government calls for capitalizing 'Nation' and 'Federal' when the words are used as a synonym for the United States," Carson wrote. "It says 'State' should be capitalized when it is referring to the government or legislature." This story was news, not newsworthy, and used a misleading headline. Here's a possible alternative headline, "Teacher might have been outraged, but she should have done her homework first." The third story revolves around migrant children. Through rapid social media shares and outrage, the story morphed over the weekend. On May 29, Slate ran "How the Liberal Internet Mixed Two Different Child-Migrant Stories Into Anti-Trump Outrage Gold," by Henry Grabar in an attempt to straighten out the story. "But as news outlets have clarified in recent days, the 1,475 children who have slipped off the radar of the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) were not separated from their parents by the U.S. government -- they arrived alone," Grabar wrote. "The latest members of a wave of unaccompanied minors fleeing violence in Central America who crossed the Southwest border beginning in 2014. According to ORR, 49 percent of those minors who arrived alone in FY 2017 were placed with parents in the U.S., 41 percent with close relatives, and 10 percent with "other-than-close relatives or non-relatives." A photo of children "in the Nogales Placement Center to criticize President Trump's separation policy," had been taken four years ago -- under President Obama's administration. Additionally, "a widely shared photo of a 'prison bus for babies' turned out to be, well, a prison bus for children aged 4 to 17 -- but one purchased more than two years ago to provide field trips and medical appointments to kids in detention centers run by President Obama's DHS," wrote Grabar. This original story was news and newsworthy, but totally messed up the facts and pictures, which inflamed emotions and circulated rapidly on social media. When ingesting news, attempt to determine whether is new (new information or a new angle), newsworthy (worth spending time and resources on to both cover, and to absorb), and based on fact(s). Good luck!
Single life is the key to living longer, one U.K. woman is claiming. Madeline Dye, 106, of Heeley, in South Yorkshire, England, said her old age was credited to her independence and avoiding relationships, Yahoo News reported. Dye was born in 1912 and worked as a bookbinder until she retired. However, her niece said she believed her longevity was due to “avoiding the stresses” that often come with marriage and relationships, according to Yahoo News. Dye said she has never had a boyfriend. BALENCIAGA’S $1,245 ‘T-SHIRT SHIRT’ BAFFLES TWITTER USERS Dye’s niece, Diana Heaton, told the Sheffield Star her aunt did not live in a nursing home until she was 103 years old, and only after a bad fall. She said she would cook for herself when she lived on her own, and even put up her own curtains. Heaton added that her aunt still “walks freely without a stick and is very independent.” “She does still dress herself and goes into the common room and chats with people. She has a great sense of humor still, she has never lost it,” Heaton said. DUNKIN DONUTS TRESPASSER WHO CLIMBED IN DRIVE-THRU WINDOW ARRESTED “Whenever anyone asks her about her past romances or if she has a husband, she says, 'I’ve never had one, that’s why I’m this age.' She says she has not had the stresses of marriage; it’s tongue-in-cheek more than anything. She has always loved her clothes and has always dressed immaculately,” she continued. According to reports, however, Dye’s long life could also be due to her practice of walking two miles to work — and doing it four times per day — up a steep hill, according to the Deccan Chronicle. It is unclear when, or even if Dye has given up on the practice entirely. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS Dye celebrated her birthday with a party at the Norton Lees Hall care home where she resides and a trip to Baslow, in Derbyshire, England, with her family.
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com. Last December, Democrat Doug Jones won a Senate race in Alabama by defeating a horribly flawed Republican candidate Roy Moore. For the first time, it appeared that the Democrats had a plausible path to winning control of the U.S. Senate in 2018. The Republican advantage was trimmed to a 51-49 margin and a net change of two seats would make New York Senator Chuck Schumer the new Senate Majority leader. To win the Senate, all the Democrats had to do was win GOP seats in Arizona and Nevada and successfully defend all of their incumbents. At the time, the Democrats had a double-digit lead on the Generic Congressional Ballot and being opposed to President Trump seemed to be all that was needed. It looked like the Democrats were poised to ride a blue wave back to power. My, how times have changed! Shortly after Doug Jones won that special election in Alabama, the Republicans in Congress cut taxes and eliminated the Obamacare mandate. Having demonstrated that they could do something that their voters wanted, the GOP prospects began to improve. Now, with the elections just six months away, it seems that Republican are more likely to gain seats in the Senate rather than lose control. Sure, it's still possible that the Dems could pick up seats in Arizona and Nevada. But, such an outcome is far from a sure thing as both races are now toss-ups. And, even if Schumer's party wins both of those races, the chances of successfully defending all of the vulnerable Democratic incumbents is increasingly in doubt. The Dems are playing defense hoping to hang on to five Senate seats in states that President Trump won by double digits -- West Virginia, Indiana, Missouri, North Dakota, and Montana. On top of that, Florida Governor Rick Scott has entered the fray to challenge Democratic Senator Bill Nelson in a toss-up state. Early indications are that Scott has all the energy and momentum in the race. The numbers clearly favor the GOP. If, for example, the Democrats pick up BOTH toss-up races in Arizona and Nevada, the Republicans need to win just one of the other six competitive races to keep the Senate at a 50-50 tie. With Vice President Mike Pence empowered to cast the deciding vote, the GOP would remain in control. At this moment in time, however, it seems like the Republicans should expect to do much better than a mere 50-50 tie in the Senate. There is certainly a chance they could win at least one of the toss-up Senate races in either Arizona or Nevada (especially if Martha McSally wins the Republican nomination in Arizona). Beyond that, Democrats Claire McCaskill and Joe Donnelly face uphill battles in Missouri and Indiana. It's very easy to imagine the R's picking up at least one of those seats. Democrat Heidi Heitkamp is probably a slight underdog in her North Dakota re-election bid. In West Virginia, Joe Manchin's personal popularity may be enough to overcome the fact that President Trump carried the state by 42 points -- but it will probably be very close. And, as always, Florida remains a pure toss-up. Add it all up, and the Democrats need to pull an inside straight to avoid losing seats in the Senate this November.
Editor's note: This originally ran in the Lifestyle section of Fox News Latino in 2013. It has been updated slightly for Mother's Day 2018. A daughter is a mother's gender partner, her closest ally in the family confederacy, an extension of herself. And mothers are their daughters' role model, their biological and emotional road map, the arbiter of all their relationships. ~ Victoria Secunda On Mother's Day, I will buy red roses, my mother's favorite, and take them to her. I will not place them in her hands across the table of a restaurant at a special brunch, or watch her eyes tear as she reads a card where I try to describe the lifelong rewards I've enjoyed because of the sacrifices she made for me and my brother. I will be placing them near her gravestone, looking down at her name, going over each and every letter, at her year of birth and year of death that came much too quickly. I will tell her, as I have every year, what she means to me, what she would have meant to the man I married and to the grandchildren she never got to meet. Losing a mother, especially a precious one, at any age is to lose one of life's great beacons. A beacon that guides the way – with her words, or with the thought of her, and what she tried to instill – with unconditional love. A beacon that comforts and assures just with its presence. But to lose a mother when you’re still a child is to lose that guiding light when you’re still learning to fly, learning to gain altitude, not knowing quite where you want to go, and how to get there once you decide. “A funeral shouldn’t be the first time someone brings you flowers and tells you how much you meant to them,” Mami would say. “Love and appreciation should be expressed when the person is alive.” I lost Mami when I was 14, a sophomore in high school. I am older than my mother ever got to be. In a holiday card to me the year before she died – suddenly, from a stroke -- she wrote that she knew that I loved her. But I never got her flowers, or told her how much I really loved her and valued her, while she was alive. Like many people, especially teenagers, I never thought I would not get the chance. I think of her and miss her deeply every single day . But there were, and are, times when not having her there was especially hard – the milestones, when I accomplished the kinds of things she’d hoped I would. I missed her terribly when I turned 15 – a significant time for a daughter in many Latino families that is sometimes celebrated with much fanfare, like a bah mitzvah. Her absence weighed heavily when I graduated from high school, when I got accepted to various colleges, when I graduated from college, when the college brought me back as the keynote commencement speaker, when I married, when I was expecting, when I had children she would have loved and spoiled. I had so wished I could have shared with her the various milestones in my career, in no small part the fruits of the mother and mentor she had been. In Cuba, she had aspired to be a famous singer. She had the voice and the persona. She had a Sophia Loren-style beauty, and a penchant for zany Lucy Ricardo-style antics. But once she became a mother, when my brother Joe was born, she threw herself into it, becoming everything that Hallmark cards adulate about mothers. Having happily pushed visions of stardom aside, singing instead became what Mami did while bathing us, preparing our meals, tidying up our rooms, putting us to sleep. A neatnik, Mami belted out songs along with Cuban icon Celia Cruz, on the radio, while sweeping and dusting. For the rest of her short life, she did with near saint-like goodness what so many mothers do to a fault – put our needs ahead of hers. We didn’t have much – my father, a photographer in Havana, worked at a factory in Manhattan, retouching negatives and taking home loads of overtime work to support us as my mother managed the home. Mami and Papi wanted my brother and I to have the kind of life one day they couldn’t, so they saved for our college education at the expense of buying things for themselves. When I got to be as tall as my mother, she bought me nice outfits and wore them once in a while instead of buying herself things. When I wasn’t feeling well, whether it was a cold or routine ache, she hovered. At night, sometimes I’d half wake up to feel her hand on my forehead, checking for a fever, not sleeping most of the night, filled with worry. If I was just a few minutes late walking home from school, she'd be in tears, on the verge of calling the police. Mami constantly hugged and kissed my brother and me, and she loved pinching our cheeks. She’d wait -- with some mischief -- for us to roll our eyes, in that classic teenage way, and she’d laugh hysterically. The woman who gave up so much told me I could be anything I wanted to be, and to pursue my dreams with laser intensity. She proudly but tearfully saw my brother off to college in New Hampshire. She cried every day for about two weeks after he left to start his freshman year. She rushed to the mailbox each day to see if a letter from him was inside. She’d bring his letters – written in English – to me to translate, and she clung to each word, her face beaming. At my brother’s graduation ceremony, Mami cried and cried. I don’t remember every detail, but I’m sure she pinched his cheeks. On that balmy Sunday morning in August, when she awoke to an excruciating headache, she seemed to know something was terribly wrong. She seemed to know the end was near. And yet, to the very end, she thought of my brother and me, and felt afraid for us, more than for herself. "I don't want to die," she said to Papi. "Who will take care of Elizabeth and Pepito?" They were her last words. Later, as we went through her belongings, I found a little statuette of her favorite saint, Santa Barbara. Tucked in the hallowed bottom was a little paper scrolled up tightly. On it, she had scrawled: "Please watch over my children." When special moments arrived in my life, I imagined how my mother would have felt and reacted. I hoped, wanted to believe, that she was observing them, and sharing with me, from another place, if not beside me in the flesh. I hope that somewhere, she is proud and knows what she never got to hear – that I love her, and admire her more each day, and clearly see the value in the things about her that I took for granted when she was alive. So on this Mother’s Day, tell that beacon in your life what she means to you. Give her flowers if she likes receiving them. Don’t put it off until the day she cannot see the flowers, or hear the words that, in silence, she probably longed for you to say.
“Full Frontal” host Samantha Bee apologized Thursday after she used an extreme vulgarity to slam Ivanka Trump in her monologue on Wednesday over a photograph the first daughter shared on social media, calling her a “feckless c---. The apology came a day after Bee used the slur on her TBS show, shocking viewers and critics alike. "I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night," Bee said in a statment. "It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it." TBS told Fox News it would be issuing a statement momentarily. Ivanka Trump was criticized by several celebrities this week for a snap she shared of her hugging her son amid reports the Office of Refugee Resettlement lost track of 1,500 immigrant children in the last three months of 2017. “Ivanka Trump, who works at the White House, chose to post the second most oblivious tweet we’ve seen this week,” Bee said, citing Roseanne Barr's racist tweet as the first. IVANKA TRUMP’S PHOTO WITH SON SLAMMED BY CELEBRITIES “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices you feckless c---! "He listens to you! Put on something tight and low cut and tell your father to f---ing stop it. Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes," she concluded. The clip of Bee’s monologue was uploaded to her YouTube channel where the words "c---" and "f---" were not censored. Bee’s show, “Full Frontal,” airs weekly on Wednesdays on TBS, an asset of Turner Broadcasting System which also owns CNN, TNT and HLN. Bee is due to receive a special honor from the Television Academy on Thursday for "advancing social change" for her work on the show. The host’s comments were criticized by social media users with some calling for her show to be canceled. “If this statement had been addressed to a child of a former president, Samantha Bee would be out of a job,” one social media user wrote. “Roseanne deserved to get fired for her comment. Samantha Bee called Ivanka a 'c---' on air and Keith Olbermann routinely calls the President a 'motherf---er.' Do you think either will get fired? Maybe see why so many Americans think there’s a media double-standard for liberals,” another tweeted. Dan Gainor, the vice president of business and culture for Media Research Center, told Fox News that the media was not covering Bee’s “hateful comments.” “Immediately after the media correctly criticized Roseanne Barr for a racist statement, Samantha Bee tries to outdo her by calling Ivanka Trump the 'C' word. Imagine if a conservative did this to Chelsea Clinton or to the Obama daughters. We'd never hear the end of it,” Gainor told Fox News. “Today media are freaking out about an incorrect [President] Trump tweet saying ABC never apologized for Brian Ross's incompetent reporting that tanked the stock market," he said. "They aren't covering Samantha Bee at all. They would rather protect a discredited journalist than address the insane and hateful comments that come from one of their favorite TV people. ABC set the media-approved standard this week for misbehavior. When someone does something this disgusting, their show is canceled.”
By Josh Kaib | WatchdogWire.com Talk about an October surprise! The first lady of Oregon — though she’s technically not married to the governor yet —tearfully admitted Thursday that she once married an 18-year-old Ethiopian immigrant in exchange for around $5,000 so he could get a green-card. Cylvia Hayes was forced to come clean after the the Willamette Week, an alternative newspaper, began reporting that she was previously married three times. The problem? Only two were previously known to the public, including Gov. John Kitzhaber. “This is the most painful part for me,” Hayes said, according to Fox 12. “John Kitzhaber deserved to know the history of the person he was forming a relationship with. The fact that I did not disclose this to him meant that he has learned about this in the most public and unpleasant way.” The “green-card marriage” took place in 1997, and a divorce was finalized in 2002. Hayes says she never lived with the man, named Abraham Abraham, and only met him a few times. Prior to this marriage, which took place when she was 29, Hayes was married and divorced twice. The first lady of Oregon, who became engaged to the governor this summer and is his live-in partner, also admitted that this was “an illegal act” and a “marriage of convenience.” Read the complete story at WatchdogWire.com
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip. Want each new episode of this podcast as soon as it's out? SUBSCRIBE: CLICK HERE! Shannon Bream, host of FOX News @ Night on the FOX News Channel returns with new "Livin' The Bream" podcast. This week, Shannon speaks with Mindy Belz, Senior Editor of the World News Group and author of "They Say We Are Infidels". Mindy provides an update on a group of stranded Iranians attempting to escape oppression and settle in the United States. Listen to the latest "Livin' The Bream": Follow Shannon on Twitter: @ShannonBream and on Facebook: ShannonBreamTV
Delta Air Lines has debuted new uniforms for 64,000 of its employees internationally across airplanes, airports and hangars for a reported $20 million, an investment met with mixed reactions on social media. On May 29, the Atlanta-headquartered carrier at last rolled out 1.2 million items for staffers designed by Zac Posen and produced by Lands’ End, a collaboration three years in the making and confirmed to Fox News via press release. DELTA PLANE DIVERTED TO TULSA OVER 'UNRULY PASSENGER' In preparation for the launch, Delta seriously did their homework, conducting over 80 employee focus groups and polling over 1,000 employees over three months across five continents on their thoughts about the uniforms. Reviewing over 30,000 employee survey responses, the design team then made over 165 changes before landing the final looks. Posen, an acclaimed women’s wear designer known for glamorous, modern designs and his role as a judge on Lifetime’s “Project Runway,” even shadowed Delta employees across various departments to fully immerse himself in the redesign for uniforms from Sydney to Honolulu. Furthermore, Delta CEO Ed Bastian said the new uniform rollout cost was “probably in the $20 million range” but that all the effort was worthwhile, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported. “The new Delta uniform collection offers unity between all workgroups like never before. We are one proud Delta team and it really shows,” Bastian said in the release. “Zac is bringing fashion and glamour back to the airlines. It’s a sophisticated look, it’s elegant, it’s much more international in orientation. Our aspirations are to be a top global carrier, not just a top U.S. carrier,” the exec later mused to the Journal-Constitution. Touting the uniform’s innovative, high-tech fabric featuring “ripstop, high-stretch, wrinkle-and-stain-resistant, water repellant and waterproof, deodorizing, windproof, anti-static and moisture-wicking properties,” the redesign also introduced Spanx compression undergarments for female employees as well as and male and female flight attendants will also receive compression socks,” Fast Company reports. BALENCIAGA'S $1,245 ‘T-SHIRT SHIRT’ BAFFLES TWITTER USERS Most notably, the carrier has embraced a new signature uniform hue with “Passport Plum,” shattering a 30-year tradition of blue and red looks in hopes of standing out among the domestic competition, Bastian said. "One of the things that we talk to our employees and customers about is our uniforms, while they're very traditional, very professional, don't stand out. They couldn't identify the Delta uniforms from the other competitors because they all kind of were in the mix," Bastian told CBS. Various carriers including Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, JetBlue Airlines and United Airlines largely outfit their employees in blue and navy uniforms. “Now, with the "passport plum"-colored uniforms, "no one will miss the Delta people," he added. Naturally, the Twitterverse reacted to the news with mixed opinion. Though the reactions to the new designs were mostly positive, others had some harsh words to share. “I'm a big @delta fan, but these look awful. They don't look user or female friendly. And the tie with a short sleeve shirt never looks good either,” one critic said. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS “Delta would have been much wiser to spend $20 million on the myriad customer service issues and stop trying to rip off all the customers,” another moaned. “This is where our ticket money is going to...designer uniforms. Ugh...” one agreed. “Yep ties with short sleeves isn’t a good look. Love Delta. But purple when your colors are red, blue, and white???” another mused. “Passport Plum is a combination of Delta’s red and navy heritage. It complements a diverse range of skin tones. This compliments Delta's brand and allows our employees to stand out for excellence, just like our service,” the carrier tweeted from their official account. Others, however, were thrilled with new look for the carrier. “You guys look absolutely amazing!!! #DeltaProud,” one fan cheered. “Love the new Zac Posen uniforms, and the plum really stands out!” another exclaimed. For better or worse, it looks like serious style has found a lasting home in the high skies.
NEW YORK — A senior North Korean official and the top U.S. diplomat had dinner in New York as President Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un try to salvage prospects for a high-stakes nuclear summit. It’s the highest-level official North Korean visit to the United States in 18 years. Kim Yong Chol, the former military intelligence chief and one of the North Korean leader’s closest aides, landed midafternoon Wednesday on an Air China flight from Beijing. Associated Press journalists saw the plane taxi down the tarmac before the North’s delegation disembarked at JFK International Airport. During his unusual visit, Kim Yong Chol had dinner for about an hour-and-a-half with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who traveled from Washington to see him. The two planned a “day full of meetings” Thursday, the White House said. Their talks will be aimed at determining whether a meeting between Trump and Kim Jong Un, originally scheduled for June 12 but later canceled by Trump, can be restored, U.S. officials have said. The talks come as preparations for the highly anticipated summit in Singapore were barreling forward on both sides of the Pacific Ocean, despite lingering uncertainty about whether it will really occur, and when. As Kim and Pompeo were meeting in New York, other U.S. teams were meeting with North Korean officials in Singapore and in the heavily fortified Korean Demilitarized Zone. “If it happens, we’ll certainly be ready,” White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said of the Singapore summit. Regarding the date for the meeting, she added, “We’re going to continue to shoot for June 12th.” North Korea’s flurry of diplomatic activity following a torrid run in nuclear weapons and missile tests in 2017 suggests that Kim Jong Un is eager for sanctions relief to build his economy and the international legitimacy the summit with Trump would provide. But there are lingering doubts on whether Kim will ever fully relinquish his nuclear arsenal, which he may see as his only guarantee of survival in a region surrounded by enemies. Trump announced that Kim Yong Chol was coming to New York for talks with Pompeo in a tweet on Tuesday in which he said he had a “great team” working on the summit. That was a shift from last week, when Trump announced in an open letter to Kim Jong Un that he had decided to “terminate” the summit following a provocative statement from the North. Pompeo, Trump’s former CIA chief, has traveled to Pyongyang twice in recent weeks for meetings with Kim Jong Un, and has said there is a “shared understanding” between the two sides about what they hope to achieve in talks. South Korean media speculated that Pompeo could make a third trip to Pyongyang and that Kim Yong Chol was carrying a personal letter from Kim Jong Un and might push to travel to Washington to meet with Trump. North Korea’s mission to the United Nations in New York is its sole diplomatic presence in the United States. That suggests Kim might have chosen to first go to New York because it would make it easier for him to communicate with officials in Pyongyang, North Korea’s capital. North Korea and the United States are still technically at war and have no diplomatic ties because the 1950-53 Korean War ended with an armistice, not a peace treaty. Trump views a summit as a legacy-defining opportunity to make the nuclear deal that has evaded others, but he pledged to walk away from the meeting if he believed the North wasn’t serious about discussing dismantling its nuclear program. After the North’s combative statements, there was debate inside the Trump administration about whether it marked a real turn to belligerence or a feint to see how far Kim Jong Un could push the U.S. in the lead-up to the talks. Trump had mused that Kim’s “attitude” had changed after the North Korean leader’s surprise visit to China two weeks ago, suggesting China was pushing Kim away from the table. Trump’s letter, the aides said, was designed to pressure the North on the international stage for appearing to have cold feet. White House officials maintain that Trump was hopeful the North was merely negotiating but that he was prepared for the letter to mark the end of the two-month flirtation. Instead, the officials said, it brought both sides to the table with increasing seriousness, as they work through myriad logistical and policy decisions to keep June 12 a viable option for the summit. Kim Yong Chol is a vice chairman of the North Korean ruling party’s central committee. The last official of his stature to visit the United States was Jo Myong Rok, the late first vice chairman of the National Defense Commission, who visited Washington in 2000, South Korea’s Unification Ministry said. The White House emphasized that it has remained in close contact with South Korean and Japanese officials as preparations for the talks continue. Spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Trump will host Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan on June 7 to coordinate their thinking ahead of the summit. Trump hosted South Korean President Moon Jae-in last week. Moon, who has lobbied hard for nuclear negotiations between Trump and Kim Jong Un, held a surprise meeting with the North Korean leader on Saturday in an effort to keep the summit alive.
Although they split last year, Christina and Tarek El Moussa are trying to keep it friendly as they continue to work with each other flipping homes for their hit HGTV show, "Flip or Flop." "We do our best to be as professional as possible but every now and then we have to jab at each other — sometimes more serious than others," Tarek told Daily Pop's Morgan Stewart and Carissa Culiner on Wednesday. "It's kind of how it goes nowadays," he admitted. Tarek, who filed for divorce from Christina in January 2017, notes that this season will be different than previous ones, with the former couple getting "into a few arguments" this time around. "I just watched the first episode last week and it is absolutely different than anything you've ever seen from us," shared El Moussa, 36. He continued: "We got into a few arguments that I didn't think were going to make camera and they did." As for Season 7 being their last one, El Moussa said, "Right now, it's up in the air." "We're not sure. I think time will tell. In the next few weeks, I'll have some answers for you," shared El Moussa, adding that he's fine with how much time he and his ex-wife spend together for their careers' sake. "It's our job," explained El Moussa. "That's our job. We go. We shoot our show. We flip houses and at the day of the we have to keep working." But if it were to come down to only one of them getting a solo spinoff, El Moussa, who shares 7-year-old daughter, Taylor, and 2-year-old son, Brayden, with his ex, said he "wouldn't really care either way." "I hope the best for her," said El Moussa. "We have kids. I need her to continue her career and I want her to be successful, make money. That way, she can live a great life. My kids can have a great life." He added: "At the same time, I'm doing everything I can to build my companies as well as stay in the entertainment industry and working on some new concepts right now."
There’s a lot to look forward to in summer: longer days, warmer nights, picnics and barbecues almost every weekend, and now…scratch-and-sniff stamps. That’s right—you’ve just been given a reason to send an actual letter again. The United States Postal Service announced this week that it will be issuing its first-ever scented stamps the day before the start of summer. The stamps will feature “whimsical watercolor illustrations of frozen treats” like fruity popsicles and decadent ice cream bars. What a flashback to the best days of childhood. “Americans love cool, refreshing ice pops on a hot summer day,” the USPS writes in a statement. “The tasty, sweet confections come in a variety of shapes and flavors.” The stamps, of which there are ten different designs, each depict two brightly colored ice pops. They were created by art director Antonio Alcalá and Leslie Badani of Alexandria, Virginia, and illustrated by Margaret Berg of Santa Monica, California. While no two cold confections look the same, the stamps will all smell alike. Unfortunately, the USPS is keeping that bit of information secret a little longer. The scent will be revealed during the first-day-of-issue dedication ceremony at the Thinkery Children’s Museum in Austin, Texas on June 20. Based on the Postal Service’s statement, the scent could be fruity or sweet. “In recent years, frozen treats containing fresh fruit such as kiwi, watermelon, blueberries, oranges and strawberries have become more common,” it writes. “In addition, flavors such as chocolate, root beer and cola are also popular.” Either way, the USPS promises the smell will remind us all of summer. And gauging the reaction from social, it seems they're already a huge hit, with fans preordering here. It's 5:25 am and I can't fall back asleep because I just learned that the new popsicle @USPS stamps are going to be scratch 'n sniff!!! — Caroline Weaver (@cwpencils) May 22, 2018 The highlight of my elderly life was pre-ordering the new USPS scratch and sniff popsicle stamps today. #amI27or77 #thethingsthatexciteme — sam (@alprazoSam18) May 23, 2018 With scratch and sniff stamps there's a 100% chance of my sending more ?? ? https://t.co/s70r9LEFdf — Jensalittleloopy (@jensalilloopy) May 23, 2018 I honestly cannot wait for these first-ever scratch-and-sniff stamps being issued next month. ???????? — Kim Hyatt (@kimvhyatt) May 23, 2018 If you're like Ms. Hyatt and can't wait until June 20 for these (let's be honest, pretty awesome) stamps, then you can check out the U.S. Postal Services' newest Forever stamp featuring astronaut and physicist Sally Ride. Ride became America's first woman in space on June 18, 1983 as a mission specialist aboard the space shuttle Challenger. She was the third woman in space, overall. "Sally Ride’s history-making journey has made it easier for young girls to dream of one day being an astronaut, an engineer, a physicist or a mathematician," U.S. Postal Service Chief Information Officer and Executive Vice President Kristin Seaver said in a press release."Today, girls don’t just dream. Because of trailblazers like Sally Ride, they have been empowered to do!” According to Ride's partner, Tam O'Shaughnessy, the trailblazing astronaut was also an avid stamp collector. "Sally started collecting stamps when she was a girl, and she continued to do so her whole life —especially stamps of the Olympics and space exploration," she said. "Sally would be deeply honored to have her portrait on a U.S. stamp." The Ride stamps made their premiere today.
Social media users were horrified following a viral video that showed a woman shaving her legs at a public pool in Florida. The video showed an unidentified woman sitting by the edge of a pool, shaving her legs as children swam nearby. The children did not appear to notice the quick shave. The people who captured the moment on video were heard saying, “Oh my God! This lady is shaving in the pool!” “I hope she don’t shave her hoo-ha next!” the woman recording was heard saying. Fortunately, the video cut off at that time. The video was uploaded to Reddit on Monday where it received more than 55,000 upvotes and 1,600 comments. However, the post was later locked which barred people from adding additional comments or upvotes. “Of course this happened in Florida. It’s the trashiest state in the union,” one social media user wrote. “Yeah I used to work at a public pool and for whatever reason they attract the worst of humanity. I would never swim in a public pool after that experience,” another person wrote. It was not immediately clear where the public pool was located or if there were any rules posted by the pool. The Orlando Sentinel reported Florida has “extensive statutes regarding pool safety” which include swimmers to bathe before entering a pool and “no spitting or bodily fluids in the pool.” However, there appear to be no statutes against shaving in a pool.
The latest battle over abortion may have less to do with the magical age of viability, or how close pro-life activists are permitted to get to an abortion mill. It may actually be fought over the existence of crisis pregnancy centers, instead. A current billboard campaign in Denver is, for example, warning pregnant women about what pro-lifers have long perceived to be an integral service when it comes to unexpected pregnancy. Crisis pregnancy centers, which first started cropping up in the early 1970s, exist to provide women with free pregnancy testing, ultrasounds, and a referral to a physician. Oftentimes they will provide diapers and other assistance, in their mission to dissuade women from obtaining abortions. But not everyone thinks that’s such a good idea. Sponsored by the Colorado Organization for Latina Opportunity and Reproductive Rights (COLOR), the Denver roadside advertisements read, “In Your Neighborhood: Fake Health Center.” As crazy as it might seem to target organizations that seek to serve the most vulnerable of women, this sentiment is actually nothing new for the Denver metro area. Last year, the far-left organization ProgressNow Colorado (loosely affiliated with COLOR) posted a controversial video to social media, claiming that crisis pregnancy centers routinely “masquerade as medical facilities.” The two-minute long video features Aubrey, a 40-year-old Denver art teacher, speaking about a past pregnancy. (Spoiler alert: she ended up not only having her baby but also choosing to parent, which makes one wonder why she’s stumping so hard for unrestricted abortion access.) Aubrey tells us that her general practitioner, upon suspecting she was pregnant, referred her to a crisis pregnancy center--where she was met by “no doctors or nurses, just an ultrasound tech”. Upon leaving the CPC, she claims she was offered nothing but a Bible. To radical progressives this is, of course, proof positive that pro-life efforts at supporting women are not only profoundly tone-deaf, but also downright dangerous. Aubrey has a seizure disorder, making the Bible a woefully inadequate substitute for comprehensive prenatal care. At one point she muses, “...if I had had a seizure while I was pregnant, I could have lost the baby...the fact that they sent me to some crisis pregnancy center where there was no medical staff, that really bothered me.” Fair enough. But are we really supposed to believe that Aubrey’s referring physician intendedfor her visit to the crisis pregnancy center to replace nine months’ worth of appointments with a licensed obstetrician? Most likely she was referred to the CPC because her doctor is pro-life, and consequently wanted Aubrey to receive a free pregnancy test and ultrasound somewhere otherthan the nation’s largest abortion provider, Planned Parenthood. The video’s real agenda is of course revealed when Aubrey enthuses over how her own mother said she’d support Aubrey no matter what she chose. Aubrey tells us that that--we can reasonably infer she means an openness to abortion here--is the sort of support she needed, but did not receive at the CPC. And so the relentlessly aggressive promotion of abortion is, of course, the real issue at hand for both ProgressNow Colorado and COLOR. Crisis pregnancy centers ought to be illegal, such organizations believe, precisely and only because they steer women away from abortion. Beware the Fake Health Centers! Interestingly however, the controversy here has only just begun. During a portion of Aubrey’s narrative, photographs of local CPCs flash on the screen. Marisol Health Services, with clinics in Lafayette and Denver, is included in the montage of allegedly under-staffed, deceptive clinics. The problem? Marisol Health actually boasts an entire medical teamcomprised of multiple licensed physicians, nurse practitioners, and a nurse midwife. These doctors have privileges at two different Denver-area hospitals, and offer everything from OB/GYN services to family medicine. Anyone who has ever visited one of Marisol’s clinics (myself included) knows for a fact that Marisol is unrivaled in its compassionate, holistic, and professional approach to women’s health. Marisol Health Services is anything buta Fake Health Center, it turns out. So a little over a week ago, an attorney for Marisol Health sent a letter to ProgressNow Colorado, demanding they remove the video from all social media platforms within three days, or risk further legal action. As of this writing, the defamatory video remains available, and ProgressNow has (as far as anyone knows) yet to respond to Marisol Health’s attorney. Progressives would love nothing more than to see good places like Marisol Health disappear altogether. That’s why COLOR is erecting provocative billboards around the city, and why ProgressNow is disseminating manipulative, misleading videos. If these groups can somehow demonstrate that crisis pregnancy centers are indeed harmful to women, then vulnerable, under-resourced mothers will have nowhere to turn but Planned Parenthood. What an utterly terrifying thought.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov arrived in Pyongyang on Thursday to meet with his opposite number, North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho. Lavrov also met with dictator Kim Jong-un and invited him to visit Moscow for a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. “We welcome contacts between North and South Korea, as well as between North Korea and the United States,” Lavrov said after his meeting with Ri. He urged all parties involved in negotiations over North Korea’s nuclear weapons program to “fully realize their responsibility for preventing the failure of such an important but fragile process.” Russia has maintained solid relations with North Korea – solid enough to help the North Koreans illegally evade the strongest U.N. sanctions – and seems interested in displacing China as Pyongyang’s patron and protector. Lavrov mentioned Moscow’s desire to pursue joint North-South economic projects on the Korean peninsula if relations between the two Koreas continue to improve. “There was a substantive exchange of views on the situation surrounding the Korean Peninsula, with an emphasis on deepening coordination of efforts aimed at finding a political and diplomatic settlement to the entire range of issues in the subregion,” said a statement issued by Lavrov’s office after he met with Kim Jong-un. The meeting between Lavrov and Kim was unusually open, with reporters taking photos throughout the conversation. According to Russia’s TASS news service, Lavrov was the first top Russian official to meet personally with Kim since he assumed the dictatorship. “I highly value the fact that Putin’s administration strictly opposes U.S. dominance,” Kim told Lavrov. “You strictly oppose, and we are always ready to conduct negotiations and a profound exchange of opinions with the Russian side on this issue.” “I think your visit shows how much attention the Russian leadership and President Putin pay to the further development and strengthening of our relations,” Kim added. Contrary to the Trump administration’s stance on denuclearization, Lavrov called for sanctions against North Korea to be lifted before a serious effort to eliminate the nuclear program is made. “How to move to this, it is a question of the art of negotiators, but this cannot be done in one fell swoop,” he said. “Therefore, there should be stages and counter movement at each of these stages.” This is not much different from China’s advice on how to proceed, but it is completely at odds with the Trump administration’s conviction that exchanging sanctions relief for incremental progress toward denuclearization will end with the same Lucy-and-the-football scam North Korea has invariably pulled in the past. It may cheer the Russians and Chinese to learn that President Trump at least entertained the possibility of holding multiple summits to work out the details of denuclearization on Thursday, although he did not indicate any willingness to grant North Korea incremental concessions for taking steps in the right direction. “I want it to be meaningful, It doesn’t mean it gets all done at one meeting. Maybe you have to have a second or a third. And maybe we’ll have none,” Trump said of his scheduled meeting with Kim Jong-un in Singapore on June 12. A State Department official added that if the summit is to succeed, “the North Koreans have to do things that they have not done before.”
