Story highlights Nipah virus spreads from animals to people and among humans Infection can cause fatal encephalitis, inflammation of the brain (CNN) A little-known virus causing deaths in a southern Indian state has become a global cause for concern seemingly overnight. Nipah virus has killed as many as three-quarters of patients during previous outbreaks. It is a zoonotic virus , meaning it is transmitted from animals to humans. Nipah is also considered an "emerging" virus because its discovery occurred relatively recently: in the past two decades. Though there have been only a few outbreaks, Nipah is considered a public health threat because it can infect a wide range of animals while leading to severe disease and death in people, according to the World Health Organization. Infection with Nipah virus can cause no symptoms, or it can cause fatal encephalitis (inflammation of the brain), with a range of possible illnesses between those two extremes. The natural host is a particular family of bats, Pteropodidae, which can spread severe disease to farm animals including pigs, resulting in substantial economic losses. Read More
(CNN) "Remember: This can only end badly." That's what my husband says anytime I start a story. He's right. So. This carpenter is sitting on a sidewalk in Midtown Manhattan with his buddies, half a dozen subcontractors in hard hats sipping their coffees before the morning shift gets started. The remains of a hurricane blew over the city the day before, halting construction, but now it's back to business on the office tower they've been building for eight months. As the sun comes up and the traffic din grows, a new noise punctures the hum of taxis and buses: a metallic creak, not immediately menacing. The creak turns into a groan, and somebody yells. Judy Melinek The workers can't hear too well over the diesel noise and gusting wind, but they can tell the voice is directed at them. The groan sharpens to a screech. The men look up -- then jump to their feet and sprint off, their coffee flying everywhere. The carpenter chooses the wrong direction. With an earthshaking crash, the derrick of a 383-foot-tall construction crane slams down on James Friarson's head. I arrived at this gruesome scene two hours later with a team of MLIs, medicolegal investigators from the New York City Office of Chief Medical Examiner. The crane had fallen directly across a busy intersection at rush hour and the police had shut it down, snarling traffic in all directions. The MLI driving the morgue van cursed like a sailor as he inched us the last few blocks to the cordon line. Medicolegal investigators are the medical examiner's first responders, going to the site of an untimely death, examining and documenting everything there, and transporting the body back to the city morgue for autopsy. I was starting a monthlong program designed to introduce young doctors to the world of forensic death investigation and had never worked outside a hospital. JUST WATCHED He's collected nearly 13,000 bodies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH He's collected nearly 13,000 bodies 01:39 "Doc," the MLI behind the wheel said to me at one hopelessly gridlocked corner, "I hope you don't turn out to be a black cloud. Yesterday all we had to do was scoop up one little old lady from Beth Israel ER." Today, we get this." "Watch your step," a police officer warned when I got out of the van. The steel boom had punched a foot-deep hole in the sidewalk when it came down on Friarson. A hard hat was still there, lying on its side in a pool of blood and brains, coffee and doughnuts. I had spent the previous four years training as a hospital pathologist in a fluorescent-lit world of sterile labs and blue scrubs. Now I found myself at a windy crime scene in the middle of Manhattan rush hour, gore on the sidewalk, blue lights and yellow tape, in a crowd of gawkers and grim cops. I was hooked. I'm not a ghoulish person. I'm a guileless, sunny optimist, in fact. When I first started training in death investigation, my husband, T.J., worried my new job would change the way I looked at the world. He feared that after a few months of hearing about the myriad ways New Yorkers die, the two of us would start looking up nervously for window air conditioners to fall on our heads. Maybe we'd steer our toddler son's stroller around sidewalk grates instead of rolling over them. We would, he was sure, never again set foot in murderous Central Park. "You're going to turn me into one of those crazy people who leaves the house wearing a surgical mask and gloves," T.J. declared during a West Nile virus scare. Instead, my experience had the opposite effect—it freed us from our six o'clock news phobias. Once I became an eyewitness to death, I found that nearly every unexpected fatality I investigated was either the result of something dangerously mundane, or of something predictably hazardous. JUST WATCHED 'This is the only thing to show for his life' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'This is the only thing to show for his life' 01:26 So don't jaywalk. Wear your seat belt when you drive. Better yet, stay out of your car and get some exercise. Watch your weight. If you're a smoker, stop right now. If you aren't, don't start. Guns put holes in people. Drugs are bad. You know that yellow line on the subway platform? It's there for a reason. Staying alive, as it turns out, is mostly common sense. Mostly. As I would also learn at the New York City Office of Chief Medical Examiner, undetected anatomical defects do occasionally cause otherwise healthy people to drop dead. One-in-a-million fatal diseases crop up, and New York has eight million people. There are open manholes. Stray bullets. There are crane accidents. "I don't understand how you can do it," friends—even fellow physicians—tell me. But all doctors learn to objectify their patients to a certain extent. You have to suppress your emotional responses or you wouldn't be able to do your job. In some ways it's easier for me, because a dead body really is an object, no longer a person at all. More important, that dead body is not my only patient. The survivors are the ones who really matter. I work for them too. From WORKING STIFF by Judy Melinek and T.J. Mitchell. Copyright 2014. Reprinted by permission of Scribner, an imprint of Simon & Schuster, Inc. Follow @CNNOpinion on Twitter Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion
After the Bharatiya Janata Party failed to prove its majority in the Karnataka Assembly today, B.S. Yeddyurappa resigned as chief minister of the southern state. The combine of the Congress Party and the Janata Dal (Secular) still has to prove that it has the numbers to form the government. Following 72 hours of high drama, which involved a midnight session at the Supreme Court, leaked audio tapes, and hidden lawmakers, the BJP failed to secure the seven MLAs that it needed to pass the floor test in the House. Yeddyurappa resigned less than 48 hours after he took oath as chief minister. "If only they had given us 113 seats instead of 104 seats, we would have turned this state into paradise," he said in an emotionally charged speech. "I am resigning as chief minister." Addressing the media shortly after Yeddyurappa resigned, Congress Party president Rahul Gandhi said that his party's alliance with the JD(S) had yielded more votes. "We have protected the mandate of the people of Karnataka," he said. "There is no competition if you calculate the vote share." Not only did the Congress secure a higher vote share (38%) in 2018 than it did in 2013 (36.6%), its vote share exceeded that of the BJP by almost two percentage points in the recently concluded election. READ: How Deve Gowda Learnt To Stop Worrying And Trust The Congress (Again) High drama On May 15, the BJP emerged as the single largest party, but it was short of the 111 seats needed to form a majority government. The polling for two Assembly constituencies was postponed. With 78 and 37 seats respectively, the Congress and the JD(S) made a post-poll alliance and approached Karnataka governor Vajubhai Vala to form the government. While the BJP cut-short its premature celebrations, the Congress rushed to offer its unconditional support to the JD(S), founded by former prime minister H.D. Deve Gowda, and agreed that his son, H.D. Kumaraswamy, would be the chief minister of Karnataka. Vala, however, allowed Yeddyurappa to be chief minister and gave 15 days for the BJP to prove its majority. The Supreme Court, moved by the Congress shortly after midnight on Thursday, gave the BJP till 4:00 pm today for the same task. The Congress and JD(S) lawmakers were sequestered to avoid any contact with the BJP. In the final 12 hours leading up to the floor test, the Congress released at least five audio recordings which the party said was proof of the BJP trying to bribe its lawmakers. In the first audio tape, released on Friday evening, the Congress alleged that Janardhan Reddy, the former BJP minister and scam tainted mining baron from Bellary, said the following things to Basanagouda Daddala, the Congress lawmaker from Raichur: "You will make 100 times the wealth you made so far...," You will become minister,"... and "I will arrange a meeting with national president." The BJP has rubbished allegations of horse trading. In his speech today, Yeddyurappa accused the Congress of taking away the phones of its lawmakers and violating the tenets of democracy. The Lingayat leader said that he had hoped that lawmakers would have voted with their conscience, but then he proceeded to resign instead of opting for a floor test. READ: The BJP Is Shopping In Karnataka: Who Are The Congress MLAs On Offer? Congress Releases Audio Tape Alleging BJP Tried To Bribe MLA In his remarks to the media today, Gandhi accused Modi of authorizing horse trading in Karnataka. "The idea that he is fighting corruption is a blatant lie," he said. Governor Vala's decision favoring the BJP triggered a volley of criticism over his arbitrary use of the discretionary powers given to Governors under Article 163 of the Constitution. In Goa, Meghalaya and Manipur, even though the Congress had secured the highest number of seats in state elections, it was the BJP that formed the government after securing a majority through post-poll alliances. Democracy wins. Congratulations Karnataka. Congratulations DeveGowda Ji, Kumaraswamy Ji, Congress and others. Victory of the 'regional' front — Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) May 19, 2018 आज का दिन भारतीय राजनीति में धनबल की जगह जनमत की जीत का दिन है. सबको खरीद लेने का दावा करने वालों को आज ये सबक मिल गया है कि अभी भी भारत की राजनीति में ऐसे लोग बाकी हैं, जो उनकी तरह राजनीति को कारोबार नहीं मानते हैं. नैतिक रूप से तो केंद्र की सरकार को भी इस्तीफ़ा दे देना चाहिए. — Akhilesh Yadav (@yadavakhilesh) May 19, 2018 If the Governor of Karnataka has any shame left, he should submit his resignation as well. The Union Ministers sitting in Bangalore, facilitating and enabling corrupt deals, are equally culpable. — Sitaram Yechury (@SitaramYechury) May 19, 2018 Fight on its hand The Karnataka election was called the semifinal ahead of the 2019 general election. Its outcome suggests that the the BJP has a fight on its hands. For the Congress, as one senior leader had put it, the Karnataka election "was a matter of life or death." While the Congress has managed to stall the BJP's quest for a "Congress-mukt Bharat," the absence of a clear victory could undermine Rahul Gandhi's position to lead a potential third-front against the BJP in 2019 general election. Even though it fell short of securing a majority, the BJP has reason to believe that Narendra Modi-Amit Shah's formidable electoral machinery moving in tandem with religious polarization remains its best bet for 2019. In a complete reversal of the 2013 election result, the BJP won seven out of eight Assembly constituencies in Dakshina Kannada and all five seats in Udupi, two deeply communalized districts in coastal Karnataka. Meanwhile, former chief minister Siddaramaiah's move to grant Lingayats the status of a religious minority backfired. Not only did sitting ministers fail to get re-elected, the number of Lingayat leaders elected from the BJP was more than double that of the Congress. While Yeddyurappa is one the tallest leaders of the Lingayats in the state, the BJP had characterised Siddaramaiah's move as an attempt to divide Hindus. In his speech today, Yeddyurappa vowed to get "28 out of 28 seats" in the Lok Sabha election. Also on HuffPost India:
If you talk to any vegan or person who's lactose intolerant, the thing they most likely miss is cheese. Smelly, unique, creamy, delicious cheese. Similarly, if you chat to any person about veganism, the thing they'll always say (aside from "but bacon") is: But I just love cheese too much. Over the past few years, with veganism growing, some pretty awesome food manufactures have committed to making vegan cheese. So much so that if you browse your local health food shop or independent supermarket, you'll find an impressive amount of vegan cheeses -- from Brie and Gouda to classic cheddar and mozzarella. But are these cheeses any good? With the help of PETA, The Huffington Post Australia road-tested eight different vegan cheeses. Here's what we thought. To preface this taste testing experiment, we wanted to make clear that it's important to stay open-minded when it comes to trying new foods, especially vegan alternatives. It's easy to class them all as 'bad' by nature, but this taste test was done with the intention of constructively criticising them. If people who are vegan or lactose intolerant can find cheese that tastes similar to dairy cheese, that's awesome. Cheese for everyone. 1. Parmesan by Angel Food This powdered parmesan is vegan, gluten free, egg free and wheat free. Its powder base is made using coconut four, to which salt, yeast extract, vegan flavour for cheesiness and white pepper is added. You can use this parmesan any way you like -- on pasta, mashed potato, sliced fresh tomatoes or beans on toast. Here is the vegan Parmesan and ricotta cheese in action. We tried this powdered Parmesan on spaghetti and this is what we thought: "Mmm, it's very salty." "Parmesan cheese is my favourite type of cheese in the world, but not powdered cheese. I still like it, though I can tell the difference." "It's salty but I would eat it. It smells cheesy, too. It makes me think: are you sure it's not cheese?" Price: $8.95 2. Tofutti 'Better Than Ricotta Cheese' The main ingredients in Tofutti's vegan ricotta cheese is tofu and oil, and it can be used on toast, in pies, lasagna, cannelloni and cakes. We tried vegan ricotta cheese on top of spaghetti. Here's the verdict: "It doesn't really taste like cheese. It's creamy and almost sweet. It's not cheese but it's definitely not unpleasant." "I actually really like that. It's creamy and neutral tasting. Interesting." "It adds a nice creaminess. This would be amazing in spinach and ricotta pie, or on toast with cinnamon and banana." Price: $8.50 3. MyLife Biocheese 'Cheddar Cheese Slices' This vegan cheddar cheese is made using water, coconut oil, vegan flavours, salt and b-carotene for that cheddar colour. Like regular cheddar slices, you can use this vegan alternative on burgers, sandwiches and toasties. Here's what we thought of vegan cheddar cheese on a toastie with tomato. Uncooked -- "This feels like actual cheese slices." Toasted -- "It's really cheesy. I can't believe it. It's delicious. I can't tell the difference, I really can't." "Mmm, it tastes like proper cheddar. It actually tastes and smells like cheese. I thought this was going to be a disaster." Price: $10.20 These two cheeses had the important melt, ooze and stretchy factors. 4. Daiya 'Mozzarella Style Shreds' Daiya's vegan alternative to mozzarella is made from tapioca and arrowroot flours, plant oil, pea protein, natural flavours and salt. The cheese is designed to melt, bubble and stretch like regular mozzarella cheese, so it's ideal for pizzas, pastas and lasagna. We added this mozzarella to some tomato toasties. Here's the verdict: Uncooked -- "Ooh, this feels a bit weird and rubbery. But it smells like mozzarella." "It's good, but a bit nutty. It's very creamy and melty -- exactly what you want in a toastie." "I want to go vegan but I don't want to give up cheese, but this is convincing. I would 100 percent have both of these cheeses [the BioLife cheddar] on a sandwich or toastie." "It looks a bit weird. It tastes good but it doesn't taste like mozzarella. I mean, I quite like it. It's way saltier than mozzarella." "I'm so impressed. It's not plastic-y or weird. This is so amazing. It's not even lying when it says that it melts." Price: $14.80 5. Green Vie 'Gouda Style' vegan cheese This vegan Gouda cheese is made of water, coconut oil, starch, salt, vegan flavourings and b-carotene for colour. You can melt, slice, grate or cook this neutral tasting dairy free alternative. We put this cheese in a toastie. Here's what we thought: "This one smells a bit plastic-y." "It smells quite like Gouda. It's got a pleasant smell." "I think the texture is right, but it's not super flavoursome." "If someone told me this was real Gouda, I would believe them. It's good, but I like the other two [above] better." "I would never question that it's not cheese. A pleasant surprise." Price: $6.50 6. Sprout and Kernel 'Herb and Cashew Cheese Nut Cheese' Sprout and Kernel's vegan cheese is made from cashews, buckwheat, oil, salt and mixed dried herbs and vegetables. This cheese would be great on a platter with crackers to let the zesty blend of herbs and spices speak for itself. Here's the verdict of the cheese when served on a platter with crackers: "This is almost like a solid dip. It's herby, peppery, and the base is really creamy. Definitely yummy." "This one is my favourite. It's not particularly cheesy, but the flavours are so well rounded and delicious." "I would buy this and the first two cheeses used in the toasties." "I think the texture is awful. It looks like it would have gelatine in it." Price: $10.95 No dairy, no worries. 7. Damona Brie This non-dairy brie is handmade in Melbourne using cultured soy milk, coconut oil, tapioca starch, miso, apple cider vinegar and Himalayan salt. Like the other cheeses, this vegan Brie was served as a platter with crackers. Here's what we thought: "It feels like playdough and tastes like nothing." "It's not offensive but it doesn't taste like anything. Just a cracker with plain mush." "Nothing like Brie." "Oh my god, it's got nothing. It's like having a decaffeinated skim almond milk latte. Just have a glass of water." Price: $11.90 8. Vegusto 'No-Moo Piquant Cheese' This vegan piquant is made using water, vegetable oils, potato starch, yeast, rice flour, nut butter, rock salt, spice and vegetable flavouring. This style has a strong cheese flavour and is designed to soften when heated and not melt. We served this cheese on a platter. Here's the verdict: "This tastes very cheesy. Whoa. It has a slightly unusual aftertaste but it's very similar to regular cheese." "I like it. It's a bit spicy at the end. This tastes like a cheesy cheese." "This one's not bad. It's very cheesy." Price: $11.50 There you have it. Excluding a couple, these cheeses are perfect for all lactose intolerant and vegan people out there who are missing cheese. You can purchase all these cheeses from The Cruelty Free Shop online or in their store in Glebe, Sydney. Click below to follow HuffPost Australia on Snapchat!
(CNN) Ahhh ... just thinking about why ice cream is so "addictive" brings with it cravings for the sweet frozen treat. Even as a nutritionist concerned with healthy eating, ice cream is one food I can't give up. Maybe it has something to do with the way the coldness hits my mouth on a hot summer day. Or the creaminess of every bite. Or the chunky chocolatey chips. Or maybe it's that the thought of ice cream evokes happy memories of special times shared with my family in Sag Harbor, New York, where enjoying ice cream after dinner while walking along a pier lined with boats is a weekly ritual. Whatever the reason, I know I'm not the only person that has regular cravings for ice cream. According to the International Dairy Foods Association, the average American consumes more than 23 pounds of ice cream per year. That's more calories than we'll ever want to know. It even shares one key resemblance to other addictions. According to one recent study, the more often we eat ice cream, the more of it we may need to satisfy the craving But why? "When you get the answer to that, will you call me and let me know?" joked Steve Young, a consulting food chemist and microbiologist, and a former technical director at Dreyer's and Edy's Grand Ice Cream, who teaches courses on ice cream science and technology to the very people who make ice cream, including at Breyer's and Ben and Jerry's. According to Young, helping ice cream manufacturers produce ice cream with a high appeal for consumers "is the study of a lifetime." That's because it involves "a lot of applied chemistry and physics," he explained, along with "heavy doses of personal preferences." For example, Young notes, "I love coffee ... but if you put it in ice cream format, I can't stand it." As the co-author of "Tharp & Young on Ice Cream: An Encyclopedic Guide to Ice Cream Science and Technology," he knows a bit more about what goes into making decadent ice cream than he let on. Unsatisfied with Young's non-answer, I pushed until he finally offered me at least a hint at what makes ice cream so delectable. The 'F-factor' The ultimate appeal of ice cream, he explained, is anything that positively influences what he calls the "F-factor," or "flavor." And he breaks that down into the perception of any ice cream flavor as a complex combination of six variables: Appearance, or visual appeal of a flavor, which sets you up for what you are about to taste Aroma, as one's mouth warms the ice cream, melts the ice and releases volatile components of any given flavor Acidity, or tartness, that can positively influence a fruit flavor or negatively influence a non-acid flavor such as vanilla or chocolate Taste, as in is the ice cream sweet, salty or savory, or some combination of these? Texture, as in is the ice cream smooth and creamy, coarse, icy or gritty? Temperature, as hard-pack ice cream should be pliable to allow scooping and ready for consumption, between zero and 5 degrees Fahrenheit Paying careful attention to temperature during delivery is key, because if ice cream melts and refreezes during distribution and storage, this can damage the air cell structure and create large ice crystals, which can negatively affect the texture of ice cream, Young explained. Sweetness: The biggest driver of the 'F-factor' The No. 1 driver of ice cream cravings is its sweetness, explained Gail Civille, founder and president of Sensory Spectrum, a consulting firm that helps companies learn how sensory cues drive consumer perceptions of products. Ice cream should not be "cloyingly sweet -- so you can eat more of it," Civille said. The amount of fat is important, too. To even be called "ice cream," a product must contain at least 10% milk fat, also called butterfat. Premium ice cream tends to max out around 18% milk fat, which can come from milk, cream or butter. "The more butterfat, the better the mouthfeel," said Deanna Simons, the quality manager of Cornell's Dairy Bar , which produces premium ice cream on campus, including flavors such as Kahlua Fudge and Triple Caramel Bliss. Having a lower overrun, a term that refers to the amount of air incorporated into ice cream, also contributes to an appealing mouthfeel, according to Simons. So, sweetness -- which contributes to the taste variable -- and fat -- which contributes to texture and triggers that you've eaten something substantial -- are key players in the likability of any particular ice cream. But Civille also points to another interesting food characteristic that plays a very important role in an ice cream's appeal: control over melt. "The melting [of ice cream] gives an additional sensory experience unlike other types of foods, because you don't get the same transformation [from other foods]," explained Alina N. Stelick, a scientist who runs sensory tests on ice cream at Cornell University's Sensory Evaluation Center. The melt should be "not too fast" and "not too slow," which can make an ice cream feel gummy, according to Civille. To better understand the concept of melt, thinks of "mix-ins," such as chocolate chips or nuts. "The ice cream acts as the lubricant," Civille explained. "The ice cream matrix needs to melt slowly enough so you can get at the pieces and chew them and get rid of them before the ice cream is completely gone." Ice cream companies have perfected the concept of melt by adding a minimum amount of fat, or thickeners and gums, which can mimic the effects of fat if done properly, Civille explained. Ice cream ingredients: A complex dance Aside from sugar, fat and melt, companies may use differing amounts and types of ingredients to affect the different flavor variables. For example, a manufacturer might use egg yolk in an ice cream recipe, which may contribute a yellowish color and custardy or "eggy" flavor to ice cream. Irresistible ice creams are also made with high-quality ingredients. For example, making ice cream with good milk (the source of milk fat and milk solids) is a very important, explained Stelick. "The milk should have a 'very light sweet taste' -- clean dairy notes without any extraneous off-taste or off-flavors," she said. If a dairy case is lit with LEDs, for example, oxidation in milk may occur, which can make milk taste like plastic, she explained. So there are many factors that go into an ice cream's flavor, sensory appeal and ultimate enjoyment. "It's a complex dance," Young said. "People agonize over the things we are talking about here." But that's not the end of the ice cream story. Ice cream 'addiction' can be brand-specific Here's where ice cream's complexity gets even more interesting: Young explained how you can have all the formula and flavor specifics of the very best-selling ice cream, and yet there's no guarantee that another ice cream meant to "copy" that very same best-seller would taste the same. In other words, there's something uniquely consistent about what any given brand produces, what it sells and "how it eats" -- a technical term that refers to how the ice cream behaves while it is warmed during chewing. Because of this, Civille goes as far as dividing ice cream "addiction" into two parts: One is, you can be "addicted" to the frozen treat -- all of its general flavor attributes, including creaminess and sweetness. But you can also be "addicted" to a particular brand. An ice cream lover might be "addicted" to a fun and funky Ben and Jerry's flavor like Blondie Ambition, with chunks of blondies and butterscotch toffee flakes, whereas someone else might prefer Häagen-Dazs' smooth and creamy vanilla. Because consistency is so important, Civille spends her days ensuring that brands deliver a product that is "unchanged as humanly possible so people have the same sensory experience." One of Civille's projects entailed helping a large ice cream company match its original imported vanilla as its primary ice cream flavor. The company wanted to guarantee that it wouldn't lose the quality of the vanilla flavor when it had to substitute the original vanilla for another kind. "A brand of Madagascar vanilla may no longer be available, and so what are you going to do now? You may have to substitute a Tahitian vanilla or use another supplier," Civille said. As an aside, she explained that a lot of vanillas are "fake." "Vanilla should taste like cooked butter, cooked milk and caramel, not fake caramel with artificial butter notes," she said. The scoop on serving sizes If there's any good news to come out of our affinity for ice cream, maybe it's the fact that the government is finally recognizing what a serving of ice cream actually is, or should be. Right now, the serving size of ice cream on food labels is listed as half a cup, but it will soon be changing to a more realistic two-thirds of a cup. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. So perhaps we'll feel a little less guilty about the large portions of ice cream we actually consume. Or maybe not. After all, the pleasure we get from slowly savoring a mouthwatering scoop of ice cream on a sweltering summer day counts for something, right?
BlackRock executive Rick Rieder doesn't think the Federal Reserve is going to raise rates much next year. Rieder believes the Fed will raise interest rates three or four times this year. Although most analysts predict the Fed will raise rates another four times in 2019, Rieder said he'd "cut that number." "We are going to be in a low rate environment for a long time," he told CNNMoney anchor Maggie Lake on "Markets Now" on Wednesday. "I don't think the Fed's going that far, after they get through the moves they're going to do this year," said Rieder, a managing director and the global chief investment officer of fixed income for BlackRock. He does think that the Fed will raise rates as inflation ticks up, but Rieder said that a strengthening dollar, among other factors, could keep the Fed from raising rates too often. The projection has made him confident that a short-term investment in US Treasury bonds is a good bet. Investors who focus on two-year treasury yields, he said, "can sleep at night." "For the first time in a while you're getting some real income from it." And US government bonds remain a good investment compared to other countries' debt. "The European Central Bank can't do a lot, the Bank of Japan, they're not creating enough inflation ... so it's hard for our US interest rates to move significantly higher." Related: Watch 'Markets Now' here every Wednesday at 12:45 p.m. ET CNNMoney's "Markets Now" streams live from the New York Stock Exchange every Wednesday at 12:45 p.m. ET. Hosted by Lake and CNNMoney editor-at-large Richard Quest, the 15-minute long program features incisive commentary from experts. Recent guests include former Chrysler and Home Depot (HD) CEO Bob Nardelli and Bitcoin bull Mike Novogratz. On Wednesday, CNNMoney's Paul R. La Monica also discussed Disney's performance following ABC's cancellation of "Roseanne." The company's stock slumped about 7% this year. So far, he said, the decision has not moved the needle for Disney (DIS). Disappointing "Solo" sales and other concerns have dragged shares down. You can watch "Markets Now" at CNNMoney.com/MarketsNow from your desk or on your phone or tablet. If you can't catch the show live, check out highlights online and through the Markets Now newsletter, delivered to your inbox every afternoon. — CNN's Alanna Petroff, Donna Borak and Nathaniel Meyersohn contributed to this report.
Bono and The Edge explain why U2 doesn't shy away from politics during their latest tour and if they think fame has catapulted them into the ultimate filter bubble.
The United States could soon be in open conflict with two key trading partners: The European Union and China. EU trade commissioner Cecilia Malmström met US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Wednesday in a bid to avoid US tariffs on steel and aluminum imports that are scheduled to take effect on Friday. But there appears to be little hope of an agreement. "Hopefully it will be a positive agenda ... with no tariffs or quotas, but realistically I do not think we can hope for that," Malmström told the European Parliament on Tuesday. Ross, meanwhile, said on Wednesday that the United States has "a lot to complain about" when it comes to trade with Europe. Related: The global steel industry by the numbers The metal tariffs threaten €6.4 billion ($7.4 billion) worth of European exports, and the bloc has promised swift retaliation if it is not exempted from the trade penalties. The European Union updated a list of American products earlier this month that would be hit with 25% tariffs if the United States moved forward. It includes US motorcycles, denim, cigarettes, cranberry juice and peanut butter. The trading relationship between the two sides is worth more than $1 trillion annually. The EU exports significantly more goods to the US than the other way around, though their trade in services is fairly even. The EU-US talks come just one day after the Trump administration's surprise announcement that it would impose tariffs on about $50 billion worth of Chinese goods and restrict Chinese investment in the United States. The shock move followed intensive negotiations between both sides, and an agreement to put a hold on threatened tariffs while talks progressed. Related: China says it's ready to fight back after US revives tariffs Experts said it's exceedingly difficult to forecast the outcome of the US-EU talks. "The way the United States has dealt with trade policy, it's so difficult to predict what will happen," said Ross Denton, a trade expert and partner at law firm Baker McKenzie. Denton said the European Union has a strong case for exemptions from the steel and aluminum tariffs, which were imposed in the name of national security. But the Trump administration may not agree. "I don't see any particular benefit to the Trump administration to, frankly, pissing the European Union off," Denton said. Related: Why are US cranberries repeatedly threatened with tariffs? The American Chamber of Commerce to the European Union -- which represents US companies in the region -- called on the Trump administration to show restraint. "These [US] tariff proposals could ignite a dangerous escalation in trade disputes and could also have other unintended consequences. They could have significant implications for jobs, growth and security on both sides of the Atlantic," it said in a statement. The European Union said it would respond in a "proportionate" way in order to avoid a trade war. But President Donald Trump may not see it that way. Trump had previously threatened to respond to any new EU trade barriers with a tax on vehicles made by European carmakers. Ross has already launched an investigation into whether global automobile imports are hurting US national security. The administration used this same approach before announcing the steel and aluminum tariffs. A tariff on cars and auto parts would have a damaging impact on American drivers and global automakers. Related: Trump's on-again, off-again strategy on China may backfire Relations between the United States and European Union have also been strained over Iran. European businesses were recently burned by Trump's decision to reimpose wide-reaching sanctions on Iran, forcing some to wind down their operations in the country. The move affected billions of dollars worth of business deals. The European Union reacted by introducing measures designed to defy the US sanctions and protect the interests of its businesses. -- Alice McCool and Chris Liakos contributed reporting. Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer would attend the meeting with Malmström and Ross.
Editor's note: Matt Bors was born in 1983 and was a 2012 Pulitzer Prize Finalist in editorial cartooning. He regularly tweets stuff on Twitter and has a new book out: "Life Begins At Incorporation."
(CNN) The triumphal parade of trucks and cars crawled from the Rafah border crossing with Egypt to Gaza City. I had scrambled into the back of a truck with Palestinian security forces not far behind the black Mercedes that carried a beaming, waving the V-for-victory sign, laughing Yasser Arafat in the car's sunroof. Women ululated and threw flowers. Children on their fathers' shoulders waved their arms. Boys and girls ran alongside the motorcade. The date was the first of July 1994: Arafat was returning to Gaza after 27 years in exile. Less than a year after the signing of the Oslo Peace Accords in the White House Rose Garden, on that hot, humid, hectic day it seemed the Middle East's Gordian knot was starting to unravel. Peace in our time. It was an illusion. This Monday, May 14, 2018 was the day the last, fleeting remnants of that illusion finally died. Medical units carry away a wounded Palestinian during a protest at the Gaza border on Monday. On the same day Israeli troops killed more than 50 Palestinians taking part in what they called the Great March of Return, Israel and American leaders studiously ignored the bloodbath in Gaza and celebrated the inauguration of the US Embassy in Jerusalem. The split television screens encapsulated the absurdity of it all. On one side, vivid images of volleys of tear gas, thick black smoke billowing from burning tires, panicked medics rushing away the wounded and the dead. On the other, elegantly dressed Americans and Israelis heaped praise on one another, called it a historic occasion, with barely a nod to the madness afoot an hour and a half's drive away. No single day highlights just how far this conflict has strayed into the disjointed, the absurd, the hopeless. Under the Trump administration, the United States has utterly abandoned any pretext of evenhandedness. And the Palestinians have been abandoned altogether. Ivanka Trump unveils a plaque at the newly-unveiled US Embassy in Jerusalem. Benjamin Netanyahu (2nd L), his wife Sara Netanyahu (L), Jared Kushner (3rd L), Ivanka Trump (C) and US Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin (R) at Monday's ceremony. Netanyahu thanks US President Donald Trump for moving the Embassy. Of course, the leaders of the Arab world are going through the motions of condemnation and anger at Monday's bloodshed. The octogenarian "President" of Palestine, Mahmoud Abbas , fresh from a trip to Chile where he was photographed kicking a soccer ball, called for a general strike and three days of mourning. How many days of mourning, how many days of rage, how many general strikes, have the Palestinians staged? The moribund Arab League called for an emergency meeting to discuss the situation in Gaza. Low would be a wildly optimistic description of expectations of the meeting. Saudi Arabia joined in the condemnation, but it was lip service. Arab condemnation is a debased currency. It counts for nothing. Riyadh, under the shadow leadership of 32-year-old Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman , has made it clear its main concern is Iran. Bogged down in an unwinnable war against the Iranian-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen, worried about the specter of growing Iranian power in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon, the House of Saud views the once-sacred cause of the Palestinians as passe. While they don't have diplomatic relations, Israel and Saudi Arabia see eye to eye on far more than what separates them. Wars in Syria , Yemen and Libya, an insurgency in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula, the ever-present threat of a resurgent ISIS, economic woes and political instability have all pushed the once hallowed Palestinian cause into near obscurity. Today the Palestinians are alone, divided between bickering factions. There is still emotional support among ordinary Arabs for the Palestinian cause, but it doesn't translate into action. For now. The Arabs are distracted, while the Israelis live in what they call their "bubble," life in a modern, fast-paced society that keeps them isolated from the ugly reality of a grim, decadeslong military occupation. The more than 2 million Palestinians crammed into Gaza will not disappear or begin to accept their fate or forget the homes their grandparents or great-grandparents lost in what was Palestine. The Palestinians in the West Bank won't quietly accept their slow, relentless relegation to reservations hemmed in by walls and barbed wire. It might seem that nothing will change. For now. But nothing remains the same. A problem ignored is not a problem solved. A storm is coming. Editor's note: This article has been updated to remove a reference to Tel Aviv as the capital of Israel.
Have the post-royal wedding blues? We feel you. Luckily, a ton of talented artists have created artwork inspired by the newly married Duke and Duchess of Sussex and all the memorable looks from their big day. Below are some of the sweetest homages to the couple that we’ve seen across the internet.
Olympian Adam Rippon knows how to ensure all eyes are on him. The 28-year-old figure skater showed up to the 2018 Oscars red carpet in an S&M-inspired tuxedo from Moschino with a leather harness. He completed his look with a bow tie and black loafers, essentially stealing the show before the show even started. “Dressed to impress in @moschino,” the bronze medalist wrote on Instagram a few days before the ceremony. “Getting ready for the Oscars with @accessonline! Huge thank you to the brill, beautiful, and kind @itsjeremyscott 🙆🏼‍♂️
Joey Akan is an award-winning music journalist based in Lagos, Nigeria. He is a public relations consultant and commentator on African music and pop culture. The views expressed in this commentary are solely his. Lagos, Nigeria (CNN) One of Nigeria's biggest music stars, Falz, released a video this weekend as a cover version of Childish Gambino's viral video, 'This is America.' The new version is titled 'This is Nigeria,' and it has generated a storm online, including a reaction from hip-hop musician and entrepreneur Diddy, who shared it on his Instagram page, propelling the video to worldwide recognition. Falz, (real name Folarin Falana) has gained plaudits for tackling social ills in a country where pop stars rarely get political. Musicians tend to avoid political commentary, partly due to an ingrained fear of persecution from the powerful political class. Revolutionary spirit Falz's 'This is Nigeria,' embodies the revolutionary and rebel spirit of Fela Anikulapo Kuti before him. Fela Kuti, the pioneer of the Afrobeat genre, was famous for his political activism during the country's era of military dictatorships. From his records 'International Thief Thief' (ITT) to 'Zombie,' Kuti exhibited a bold defiance against the Nigerian government and other corrupt officials of his time. Fela was a raging supporter of human rights, and his records, - often filled with verbal attacks - were against Nigeria's military government in the 70's. It came at a great personal cost to him; he was frequently imprisoned and his mother was thrown off a balcony by an unknown Nigerian soldier during a raid. After the passing of Fela, his sons Femi and Seun Kuti have carried on some of his activism in their individual music careers, but Afrobeat, as a genre of music has largely become niche. Falz is known globally for his comedy-flavored hip hop hits but could he take on the political music mantle and fill the gap left by Fela? The singer has a law degree and is the son of prominent Nigerian lawyer and human rights activist, Femi Falana, so this suggestion is not as far-fetched as it sounds. It is also not the first time that the rapper has included social commentary in his music with previous hits 'Confirm' and 'Child of the World,' so it would appear that the apple does not fall far from the tree, as the saying goes. Complacent slumber While the concept for the 'This is Nigeria,' video isn't original, what Falz did was internalize the message, pass it through his own artistic filter and bring it home to Nigeria to highlight the country's numerous social ills. Almost as if to awaken Nigerians from their complacent slumber of acceptance. "The primary motivation was to trigger an awakening among the Nigerian people about the numerous political and social ills that we constantly face as a country. And more importantly to spark a reaction in the positive direction," says Falz via email. With the help of stuntmen and extras, Falz walks us step by step through Nigeria's major problems, central to this is what many perceive to be inefficient leadership by the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. Many believe he has failed to deliver on its promises of improving Nigerian lives and fixing the economy. which slid into a recession two years ago and is slowly starting to emerge out of it. Nigeria is awash with petrodollars but much of this money does not trickle down to the average man and woman on the street. According to the World Poverty Clock, 82 million of the 180 million population (42.4 percent), live in extreme poverty. Other problems include the country's opioid crisis, normalization of insecurity such as frequent Boko Haram bombings and kidnapping of schoolgirls such as the Chibok girls. Added to this incendiary mix is the country's strained ethnic and tribal relations, a lack of dependable power supply, poor infrastructure, a trigger-happy police force, the popularity of advance fee fraud, (locally known as Yahoo boys) and exploitation of the citizenry by some clergymen. A national mirror The first thing you notice when you watch Falz's 'This is Nigeria,' video is the strongest message contained in the video; Nigeria is a lawless country, guided by a constitution that is treated like an honorary document. That's why the first man, dressed in traditional Fulani attire would switch from being a happy musician minding his business, to a murderer in an instant. He abandons his Goje (popularly known as the 'Hausa Guitar) for a machete, and instantly moves towards another helpless citizen who he kills without mercy. It is this type of imagery that makes the video so powerful. This is the first time in the recent history of the local pop scene that an artist with the influence and credibility of Falz has released such material. While many commentators in the local space have been quick to dismiss it on the basis of it being a cover version, it doesn't take away from the core message; Nigeria is a flawed country, with multi-faceted problems. Falz captures this using cinematic techniques and concludes, just like the source material, by failing to proffer a solution. Perhaps that is the point he's trying to make. It is a national mirror, created to make Nigeria stare at itself and its problems, one more time. Falz's 'This is Nigeria' video and its impact has generated conversations around the world, and acts as a reminder of the power behind music, and how it can be used more effectively to inspire change. It shows that contrary to popular opinion among local talents, there is a demand for conscious music. Capturing their pain Many musicians should follow his lead, and create art to reflect the times and the pulse of the people. While there are valid opinions against chasing activism as the sole focus of African music, the ability to balance it out, and create conscious music, while also feeding the people's desire to escape is a crucial skill. Falz's video suggests that, as Nigeria moves forward, its musicians have a huge responsibility on their shoulders to create art that amplifies the state of the nation, and ultimately improves the society that nurtured them. Their music is created for communities that are massively affected by these problems. Ultimately, it shouldn't only provide leisurely relief. It should capture their pain too.
LISAD, Uttar Pradesh — Rajendra Mallik, a sugarcane farmer living in Uttar Pradesh, had prided himself for always voting on merit, never for a party or an ideology. The Jat farmer was unconcerned when his family derided the Samajwadi Party as a pro-Muslim party when he voted for its candidate in a civic poll. He liked the candidate. But the Muzaffarnagar riots in September 2013 changed everything. His village, Lisad, where Hindus and Muslims had lived peacefully for generations, witnessed the deadliest violence. Thirteen Muslim men were killed in Lisad, and with the exception of one elderly man named Basheer, who refused to leave the home where he was born, the entire minority community fled and never returned. At least 60 people, mostly Muslims, were killed in the religious violence. An estimated 60,000 Muslims were displaced. It was after the communal riots that Malik decided to support the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), voting, in 2014 and in 2017, on one issue alone: "the Hindu agenda." SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube For the crucial Lok Sabha by-poll in Kairana today, however, the 31-year-old farmer has considered voting against the BJP for the first time since the riots. "The Hindu agenda was the only thing that mattered to me after the riots. It is still closest to my heart, but I'm also angry with the government. I want to send a message," he said. "The situation of the sugarcane farmers has never been so bad under any previous government. It is time for the BJP to get a shock." The situation of the sugarcane farmers has never been so bad under any previous government. It is time for the BJP to get a shock. Lisad, like many villages across western UP, is in the throes of a sugarcane crisis. Sugarcane mills in UP owe farmers Rs. 12,000 crore as of May. A record production of sugar in 2017-2018, almost 30 percent higher than the previous year, has led to a dip in sugarcane prices, making it harder for the mills to pay. Presently, representatives of the sugar industry say, the ex-factory sugar price of around Rs. 26-27 per kilo is Rs. 8-9 below the cost of production. There is almost no family in Lisad that is not waiting for payment from the sugarcane mills. Most of them have not received the sugarcane they supplied between December and April . Mallik says he is owed ₹5 lakhs by the sugar mills. "It was never so bad, not even under the Samajwadi Party government. There used to be delays, perhaps going back to a few months, but this time we haven't been paid since after November," he said. There used to be delays, perhaps going back to a few months, but this time we haven't been paid since after November In the wake of the sugarcane crisis, five years after the communal riots, the Jats of Lisad, may have turned against the BJP, and gone back to voting for the Rashitrya Lok Dal (RLD), the party, which, with the support of jats and Muslims, had once reigned in western UP. Given that Ajit Singh's RLD is leading a joint opposition, made up of the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress, which covers an estimated 62 percent of the electorate, the BJP cannot afford any part of its existing voter base withering away. Rajveer Singh, a 41-year-old farmer, who is waiting for ₹4 lakhs from the sugar mills, said that his anger just might trump his loyalty to the BJP. "We want a little bit of change, we definitely want some change," he said. "In any case, it is just six months before the general election. We can send a message, without doing too much damage." We want a little bit of change, we definitely want some change. For the BJP, however, winning Kairana is a matter of prestige, especially after its by-poll losses in Gorakhpur and Phulpur, where the BSP and SP presented a joint opposition, and its failure to form the government in Karnataka after the Congress forged an alliance with the Janata Dal (United). By-poll losses are largely responsible for BJP's reduced seats in Lok Sabha - 282 seats in 2014 to 272. In addition to Kairana, two by-polls are underway in Maharashtra, where the Congress and Sharad Pawar's Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have formed an alliance, and one is going on in Nagaland. By-poll losses are largely responsible for BJP's reduced seats in Lok Sabha - 282 seats in 2014 to 272. Singh's brother, Ranveer Singh, who was definite about voting for the RLD and not the BJP, this time around, said, "What has the BJP done for farmers? If it has done anything then we haven't felt it. It is time for change." Hindu versus Muslim Kairana's estimated 16 lakh voters are made up of upper caste Hindus, Muslims, Dalits and Other Backward Classes (OBCs) including Jats, Kashyaps, Sainis and Prajapatis. While the alliance is targeting the votes of Muslims, Dalits and Jats, the BJP is aiming for the upper caste Hindus, the OBCs, and non-Jatav Dalits, who don't always vote for the Bahujan Samaj Party. At an estimated 5.2 lakh, the Muslims are the largest chunk, and together with the Dalits, the Jats, and the anti-incumbency votes, the alliance hopes to capture nine to ten lakh voters. The BJP, unless it has managed to make the by-poll into a straight Hindu-Muslim contest, is undoubtedly facing an uphill battle in Kairana. I'm angry with the BJP, but I don't want to vote for a Muslim. I feel like I will go into the polling station to vote for the RLD but then I won't be able to vote for a Muslim. The RLD has zeroed in on the BJP's Achilles heel by asking farmers whether they care about "Jinnah or ganna?" It refers to communal tensions surrounding the portrait of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Pakistan's founding father, which has been hanging in Aligarh Muslim University since 1938. It triggered violent protests, last month. In his address in Kairana, last week, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath appealed to all Hindus to vote for the BJP irrespective of caste. "People will be coming to you, someone with a caste slogan, some with an identity slogan, some with a farmer slogan, some will say Ganna or Jinnah," he said. "We will work for ganna, but we will also not allow a portrait of Jinnah." Muslim candidate Mallik wants the ganna crisis resolved, but he also wants Jinnah's portrait removed from AMU. "It could have been left alone, but now that it has been raked up, his portrait should go," he said. "Having it displayed in the university is an insult to our soldiers." The one thing that made Mallik and Singh reluctant about voting for the RLD was that it had fielded a Muslim candidate: Tabussam Hasan. Hasan, who won the Kairana seat in 2009 on a BSP ticket, is the mother of Nahid Hasan, the current MLA of Kairana. In 2009, Tabussam Hasan defeated BJP's Hukum Singh. Singh's daughter, Mriganka, is contesting against her. "Before the 2013 riots, it didn't matter to me whether a candidate was Hindu or Muslim, but it does now," Mallik said, last week. "I'm angry with the BJP, but I don't want to vote for a Muslim. I feel like I will go into the polling station to vote for the RLD but then I won't be able to vote for a Muslim." "I really wish they had picked a candidate from any other caste," he said. I feel like I will go into the polling station to vote for the RLD but then I won't be able to vote for a Muslim. Rajveer Singh, the farmer, who faces the exact same dilemma as Mallik, said, "I'm angry with the BJP about the sugarcane, but I am angrier at the Muslims about everything." His brother, in an exasperated tone, said, "You are not voting for a Muslim, you are voting for Ajit Singh. Will you remember that?" In the past, the RLD had managed to successfully transfer Jat votes to Muslim candidates, but that was before the Muzaffarnagar riots had so deeply polarized western UP. But given that Muslims were an estimated 5.2 lakh voters, Sudhir Panwar, a farmers activist who contested the 2016 elections on a Samajwadi Party ticket, pointed out that no party - with the exception of the BJP - could ignore Muslims. "They (opposition) are indirectly fighting the 2019 election in 2018. They are telling Muslims that we fielded a Muslim despite the objections from Jats," he said. Whether the RLD has managed to get Jats to vote for a Muslim, Panwar said, would gauge Ajit Singh's appeal and ability. "A testing ground for 2019," he said. They (opposition) are indirectly fighting the 2019 election in 2018. They are telling Muslims that we fielded a Muslim despite the objections from Jats. A contradiction While there is no love lost between the Jats and Muslims, there is also a lull in hostilities. Even as they were agonizing over voting for a Muslim candidate, both Malik and Singh talked at length about how much they regretted the flight of the Muslims from their village. It has cost the Jats both economically and psychologically. The absent Muslims, who filled the roles of carpenters, farmhands, manual labourers, electricians, ironsmiths and welders, are sorely missed by the Jats, who now end up paying double for getting the same services from outside the village. There are many Jats who remain convinced that their village had been cursed after the bloodshed. They talk about the animals that started dying, especially calves, a few months after the Muslims left. Those who have family members charged for rioting, murder and attempt to murder, have been living in a constant state of fear for their loved ones. "A few hours of violence has cost us so much. The village had changed forever," Malik said, adding that he did not participate in the violence, "It makes me sad to see the empty houses." Singh said, "It never should have happened." A few hours of violence has cost us so much. The village had changed forever. But when the village was debating whether to bring back the Muslims, Mallik was against it. "It's too late. It would have been too complicated, too messy, and too dangerous," he said. "Remember, there are still people with cases against them." A family split The issue of pending criminal cases against the Jats has also divided the community over the RLD and the BJP. Those who are only concerned about the sugarcane crisis have been inclined to vote against the BJP, while those who have to worry about criminal cases believe it safer to vote for the BJP. The BJP had vowed to withdraw all "false" cases related to the riots if voted to power, and the Adityanath government has been making good on its promise. The question of voting against the BJP has divided some families right down the middle. In the Mallik family for instance, his father has been determined to vote for the RLD and instructed his family to do the same. Mallik's dilly-dallying has irritated him. Meanwhile, Mallik's 21-year-old niece, a college student, who believes the law and order situation has vastly improved in the past year, had decided to stick with the BJP. Garima Mallik wants to safeguard the "Hindu agenda." "I have nothing against Muslims, but I feel they cause trouble wherever and whenever they get the chance. When the BJP is in power, they stay in control, they stay in limits," she said. When the BJP is in power, they stay in control, they stay in limits. Also on HuffPost India
Please enable Javascript to watch this video CHICAGO — A man was shot and killed in his vehicle Wednesday, leading to a crash in the city's South Loop. The shooting happened around 1:30 a.m. Wednesday in the 700 block of South Clark Street. The 30-year-old man has been identified by friends as Zachary Stoner. He went by "Zack TV" and was a popular Chicago video blogger in the hip hop community. Stoner was shot in his head and neck before his Jeep drove up on a curb and crashed into a light pole. He was taken in critical condition to Northwestern Memorial Hospital, where he later died. A Chevy Caprice was also involved in the crash. Witnesses said a group of people jumped out of the Caprice and got into a third car that drove off. That car was possibly gold or tan. There is no word on any other injuries. Stoner was known for interviewing a number of Chicago rappers. Fans appreciated the authenticity and rawness in Stoner's vlogging. He has a very large social media following, especially on YouTube, where he has posted thousands of videos. According to friends, Stoner had just left a rap concert at Refuge, 416 S. Clark St., when the shooting occurred. "I’m hearing stories like they may have been mad at him because he did interviews with certain rappers," friend Phor Robinson said. "But that’s not his fault for him doing his job. I don’t know why anyone would attack Zack and shoot him. He’s not that type. He shows love to everybody in Chicago.” No one was in custody Wednesday. Activist and mayoral candidate Ja'Mal Green is offering a $1,000 reward for information leading to an arrest and conviction. The two men were friends, according to Green’s Twitter page. My friend.. WOW! Seen a few times in the last few weeks. Was just about to do an interview for my campaign! I want to offer an award for information leading to the arrest of the suspects. This is sickening! https://t.co/suZZQNPpI9 — Ja'Mal Green (@JaymalGreen) May 30, 2018 After hearing shouts from below, a nearby resident recorded cell phone video which shows Stoner's jeep and several men can be seen jumping into a car as they left a damaged Chevy Caprice behind. Detectives could be seen checking the Caprice for evidence. Robinson believes it's possible his friend was an unintended target. "I don’t know if they was personally shooting at him, or if it was somebody he was with," Robinson said. "I don’t know what it was. All I know is my friend is gone.” 30 year old man dead in Printers Row shooting on Clark btwn Harrison & Polk. He was the driver of this silver Jeep that crashed into a light pole after he was shot in the head & neck. @WGNNews @WGNMorningNews pic.twitter.com/wzSuxBZxwV — Courtney Gousman (@cgousman) May 30, 2018 Please enable Javascript to watch this video
Jonathan Cristol is Levermore Research Fellow at Adelphi University and a Senior Fellow at Bard College's Center for Civic Engagement. Follow him @jonathancristol. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) On Monday morning, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo gave a speech at the Heritage Foundation in Washington: "After the Deal: A New Iran Strategy." Over 26 minutes, Pompeo articulated a strategy that can best be summarized as, "Do everything we say, or we will crush you." This speech was the first clear articulation of American Iran policy since President Donald Trump effectively withdrew from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (a.k.a. "the Iran deal") on May 12. Now, self-proclaimed master deal maker President Trump has a new deal in mind for Iran, one that would effectively require Iran to change the very nature of its regime and reverse its core foreign policy principles -- deterring the United States, supporting Shias abroad and overturning the regional order. The new deal on the table is a dream come true for many globally important figures: Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman; Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu; Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Commander Mohammed Ali Jafari; National Security Advisor John Bolton; and the Mujahideen-e-Khalq cult. Under this strategy, articulated by Pompeo, the US enacts a new round of crippling sanctions that will have Iran "battling to keep its economy alive." Then Iran peacefully gives into US demands and changes the very nature of its regime. It's all so easy it's a wonder no previous president thought of it. Iran just needs to release American hostages, end its ballistic missile program, withdraw from Syria, end support for the Houthis in Yemen, stop its support for Hezbollah and all other terrorist groups and end its "threatening behavior" in the region. Of course, these are all laudable goals. The United States and the Middle East would be much better off if Iran gave in to America's demands. But foreign policy should be rooted in reality -- not fantasy. Had the US remained in the JCPOA and built up trust with Iran over time, perhaps we could have reached agreements on other issues. But the withdrawal from JCPOA effectively nukes any chances for further agreements with Iran. The Administration hasn't totally forgotten about the JCPOA. Included in the American demands is that Iran agrees to a nuclear deal that seems very much like the JCPOA. In exchange, the United States will lift sanctions, restore full diplomatic relations with Iran and welcome it back into the community of nations. Hell, it worked with Moammar Gaddafi in Libya. And if you don't believe me, just ask him... But Pompeo's speech was not only a list of Iran's sins and a litany of demands directed at the Iranian regime, it was also directed at the Iranian people and the domestic situation inside Iran. Pompeo described an Iran rife with unemployment, hopeless youth and a brutal repressive dictatorship bent on suppressing a restive population with intimidation and violence. And in the most bitterly ironic part of the speech, he said that the US stands "in total solidarity" with the same Iranian people the administration has fought so hard to bar from American soil. The reality is much more complicated than Pompeo claims. It is true that there have been protests over economic conditions, forced hijab and the money spent on Iran's Syrian adventure. Yet the regime has an excellent track record of suppressing protests, and the US has an excellent track record of underestimating regime support. It is unclear how Pompeo expects this new strategy to succeed. The American sanctions will only be crippling if the rest of the world goes along with them, and while the US may risk the transatlantic relationship in an attempt to force European compliance, it's hard to see the same tactic working on Russia and China. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Pompeo is effectively calling for "self regime-change" in Iran. This will not happen. He has provided no reason why Iran would acquiesce to America's demands. Doing so would only weaken Iran's ability to confront the United States and would require Iran to place greater trust in Washington than did the JCPOA, which the US violated. Pompeo has succeeded only in providing the Supreme Leader with the evidence he needs to show his people that the US really does mean Iran harm.
When the Bharatiya Janata Party deployed G.Janardhana Reddy, accused in a ₹35,000 crore-mining scam, as an election campaigner in Karnataka, there were howls of protest from the opposition. There has been noticeably less outrage in the case of the Congress's D.K. Shivakumar, an accused in at least four cases of corruption, forgery and criminal conspiracy. Less than a year ago, the MLA from Kanakapura was accused of destroying evidence in connection with multiple tax evasion cases. While IT officials claimed to have unearthed somewhere between ₹10 to ₹300 crores in undisclosed income from his residences, the former energy minister of Karnataka insisted that he was being targeted by the Modi government. His declared assets have increased from ₹251 crores in 2013 to ₹840 crores. Last week, Shivakumar went from a fat cat tainted by illegal land and mining scams to the hero of the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) alliance in Karnataka. The 55-year-old has emerged as a master strategist, who outsmarted the BJP president Amit Shah, outflanked Reddy, and ensured that not a single MLA from his party defected to the rival camp. Observers agree that Reddy and Shivakumar, two of the richest and most powerful men in the state, both accused of serious crimes, have been key beneficiaries of the election. Shivakumar has the advantage of being on the winning side, but whether the scam-tainted lawmaker can elevate himself in the government and within the party remains to be seen. Despite the lead he took in securing the alliance, Congress sources say that his advancement isn't a done deal. The blatant use of money-power has some feeling a bit soiled. "We all know the kind of money power that Janardhana has," said T.J. Abraham, a prominent anti-corruption activist in Karnataka, referring to the mining baron. "Now, if Janardhana failed to lure people then you can imagine the kind of power Shivakumar has. He was able to beat Janardhana." Abraham, who has taken Shivakumar to the Supreme Court over a land grabbing case from 2003, added that people have become indifferent to crime and corruption in their leaders. "People ask me why are you after him for just four acres of land. They say it is nothing. These days it needs to be 2,000 acres for people to have any interest. The common man is used to a corrupt world," he said. Now, if Janardhana failed to lure people then you can imagine the kind of power Shivakumar has. He was able beat Janardhana. Despite the furore around the Reddy's presence, the former minister campaigned for the BJP, while his kith and kin were given tickets to contest the election. On May 3, while campaigning in Ballari, where Reddy allegedly carried out extensive illegal mining of iron ore, Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared a stage with his elder brother, Gali Somasekhara Reddy. Not all of his associates emerged winners in the election, but Reddy's family staged a definitive comeback. Reddy's brothers, GS Reddy and Gali Karunakara Reddy, won by margins of 10,000 votes from Ballari city and Harapanahalli respectively, appending political clout to their considerable money and muscle power in the southern state. Not only were the Reddy brothers expected to deliver the 23 Assembly seats from their stronghold of Ballari, once called the "Republic of Bellary," observers said that the BJP had relied on GJ Reddy to find the lawmakers they needed to form a majority. The Congress, last week, released an audiotape in which the party claimed that Reddy can be heard telling a recently elected lawmaker, "You will make 100 times the wealth you made so far." The common man is used to a corrupt world. READ: Congress Releases Audio Tape Alleging BJP Tried To Bribe MLA Difference in criminology The BJP fielded the highest number of candidates (83) with criminal records in Karnataka followed by the Congress (59). In addition, the Centre for Media studies found the Assembly election to be the costliest ever, with political parties reportedly spending over 10,500 crore rupees. The rampant criminality in Karnataka politics has analysts splitting hairs to explain the difference between the various configurations. Tolpady Rajaram, a political science professor at Mangalore University, described Reddy's politics as "exclusivist and crude," while Shivakumar, a seven-time MLA, was a "more rooted politician with popular contact." "I'm not denying D.K. Shivakumar's criminal record, but his criminology is very different from that of Reddy," he said. "The kind of political leadership that was emerging under Yeddyruppa with financial support from Reddy is far more dangerous than a JD(S)-Congress alliance with Shivakumar as the kingpin." Rajaram was referring to BJP's B.S. Yeddyurappa, who served as the chief minister of Karnataka for less than 48 hours, last week. In 2011, when the BJP was in power in Karnataka, Yeddyurappa was forced to resign as the CM after he was accused of illegally denotifying land. He was charged with corruption and jailed in October of the same year. During the course of the election campaign, the Congress had repeatedly cited the example of the Reddy brothers to highlight BJP's hypocrisy when it came to fighting corruption. In its own backyard, however, the party has not only ignored the fact that Shivakumar is accused of several serious crimes, but repeatedly used his influence and resources to safeguard its own interests. Ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls, last year, it was Shivakumar who prevented horse-trading by sequestering 44 Congress MLAs from Gujarat in a hotel in Bengaluru. This time around, Shivakumar reportedly had his fellow MLAs under close observation and they were not even allowed to use their mobile phones. S.R. Hiremath, an environmentalist who has spent his life fighting land and mining scams, and has called for an investigation by central agencies against Shivakumar, had this to say about his recent coup against the BJP: "It takes a thorn to defeat a thorn." Hiremath noted that Shivakumar's growing political clout would only make it harder to eventually prosecute him. "I see the writing on the wall," he said. I see the writing on the wall. Having proven himself as indispensable to the party, Shivakumar had made a bid for the position of the deputy chief minister in the JD(S)-Congress coalition government. Shivakumar has held the portfolios for energy, urban development, and prison and home guards, in previous Congress governments in Karnataka. The reason that Shivakumar is unlikely to get the post of deputy chief minister has little to do with his alleged crimes, and more to do with him being a Vokkaliga, the same community as H.D. Kumaraswamy, the JD(S) president who is slated to be the chief minister. On Tuesday, Congress's G. Parameshwara, a Dalit, was picked as the deputy CM. The question now is whether Shivakumar will be allowed to continue as the energy minister or given a portfolio of similar standing. Shivakumar might have secured his position as the party's troubleshooter, but not everyone within the party is happy about the attention he has received. Internal political rivalries are at play. It remains to be seen whether the MLA from Kanakapura can extract his pound of flesh. READ: How Deve Gowda Learnt To Stop Worrying And Trust The Congress (Again) Inside the Congress Inside the Congress, Shivakumar's sudden national prominence has attracted its share of critics. His detractors say he managed the media optics and took credit for work done by the party high command of party president Rahul Gandhi, senior leader Ahmed Patel and general secretary K.C. Venugopal. His critics within the party even say that Kumar did a poor job as the chairman of the election campaign committee, which had a wide range of critical tasks, from running political ads in various mediums to finding powerful personalities to speak at rallies. "That is the reality, how politics works in this country," said a Bengaluru based Congress official." Every party has men like him who may have committed crimes, but they also have the power and influence that is needed." That is the reality, how politics works in this country. Also on HuffPost India:
(CNN) At least 22 people, including four children, were killed in a bus accident in Uganda, police said. The crash occurred Friday evening in Kiryandongo, a town about 140 miles north of the capital, Kampala. "We continue to thank all those that have been working in saving lives plus the Police officers that worked since last evening in service of the people," the Uganda Police Force tweeted from its official account Saturday. "Quick recovery to the injured. RIP to the dead." All road users are reminded to use roads with care and caution. Many road accidents are a result of avoidable human undertakings. — Uganda Police Force (@PoliceUg) May 26, 2018 The accident involved a passenger bus and another large truck, according to the Uganda Red Cross Society. The aid organization said the death toll was as high as 40. Fourteen other passengers were injured and airlifted to a hospital in Kampala, police said. Authorities released the names of the deceased Saturday afternoon and urged drivers to use "care and caution" on the roads.
Story highlights Former football players are supporting new education initiative, Flag Football Under 14 "Please don't let your children play football until high school," one Hall of Fame player said (CNN) Several former NFL players called Thursday for an end to tackle football for kids ages 13 and under. Pro football Hall of Famers Nick Buoniconti and Harry Carson joined four-time Pro Bowl linebacker Phil Villapiano and researchers from Boston University to make the announcement. They're working with the Concussion Legacy Foundation to support a new parent education initiative, Flag Football Under 14, that pushes for no tackle football until the age of 14. "I beg of you, all parents to please don't let your children play football until high school," said Buoniconti, 77, who has been diagnosed with dementia and probable chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a neurodegenerative disease. "I made the mistake starting tackle football at 9 years old. Now, CTE has taken my life away. Youth tackle football is all risk with no reward." Buoniconti helped the Miami Dolphins to three straight Super Bowl appearances, including two wins and an undefeated season in 1972, the only such season in all of NFL history. In November, he said he intended to donate his brain to research.
(CNN) Online shopping helped make Amazon's Jeff Bezos the richest person of all time in January. But despite tough times for many stores in the US, plenty of us still enjoy a trip to the mall. Not all cities offer the same level of variety or access to big brands, however. A recent market research report has found Dubai to be the top shopping destination for international retailer presence. Dubai had 62% of international retailers doing business in the city in 2017 according to CBRE Group's " How Global is the Business of Retail ?" 2018 report. Shanghai was second with 55.3%, while London -- which came top in CBRE's 2017 report -- came third with 51.7%. New York, the top US city, ranked eighth with 46.3%. The report by the commercial real estate services and investment company analyzed the retail sector in 123 major cities in 47 countries, using a sample of 334 global retailers. CBRE notes that its 2018 report was based on brand analysis conducted every other year. Rankings in its 2017 report were estimates, meaning not only has London dropped from the top spot this year, but its ranking for the previous year has been downgraded too. "(The brand sample) is not focused on any one particular market or any one particular region," explains Natasha Patel, director of global retail research at CBRE, "it's trying to be as representative as possible of the global retail market space." Read More
As he rolled up the window and settled back into his seat, Prakash Raj said, "Be warned, they might throw gobar (cow dung) at the car." By "they," the popular actor and director, with five National Awards to his credit, meant the Bajrang Dal activists who are known to run riot in the port city of Mangalore, a stronghold of the Sangh Parivar. With less than two weeks before polling day, Raj is making pitstops all over the state with just one message: don't vote BJP. He has shared a stage with Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani, who has traveled from Gujarat to rail against the BJP, and Richa Singh, a student leader from Allahabad University. In an interview with HuffPost India, Raj talked about how the murder of Gauri Lankesh changed him and why he is doing his bit in the "semi final" to the 2019 general election. Excerpts: Why did you decide to speak out? I was always a guy who questioned, but Gauri's death changed my perception. When you see people rejoicing at a death, you ask the question why. I felt responsible that we had left her to speak alone. I can't get Gauri back. It is a wound that is deeper than flesh. We don't want another Gauri Lankesh (murder) happening. I found a purpose after, I feel responsible for my state and for my society because I'm born out of it and I've gained from it. What's the point of my existence if I can't give back to society. Someone has to start somewhere. That's how voices are born. You shared a stage with a lawmaker from Gujarat, a student leader from Allahabad. Why is pushing back the BJP proving so tough? I think one reason for their onslaught was that people had become islands. I think we've all realised that we'll have to bury the differences and come together. What is happening is not right, this dictatorial rule which is rolling over everything. Nature has its way, it fights back in its own way. When more voices speak out loud, it strengthens the voice of the people. I think the erosion of BJP has already started. "There is no place for being comfortable, right now. We need to speak clearly. First, we have to fight communal politics, which is more dangerous than corruption." Still, the BJP, largely Modi, remains popular. That's not the case, anymore. The BJP ideology is being rejected. The very fact that they want an opposition-mukt Bharat shows their arrogance. How does a democracy work without an Opposition? A minister is saying something (Islam) has to be wiped out. They have elected governments that do not listen to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court wants a movie to be released, they ban it on their own. Why are fringe elements coming up? Why do they feel comfortable that they can get away with what they want to do? We've never had an election like this before. Even right now, we are wondering whether someone might throw cow dung at us. A citizen who is speaking his or her mind needs police protection. It should not be like this. They don't want a dialogue, they just want to threaten and stop you. What is it about this particular election that bothers you? This is most communalised election we've had in Karnataka. I know, I'm from Karnataka, I was born here, I've lived here. They are communalising because they are desperate. The Centre cannot stop things from falling apart anymore. People who are desperate are the most dangerous to society. Three pre-poll surveys are projecting a hung parliament. I don't think the BJP will make it here. They won't even make it in their own laboratory (the coastal region). They have no faces. They are waiting for Modi, Amit Shah and Yogi Adityanath. Yogi has already lost his ground here. Modi has already been made to feel uncomfortable here. The 20 day program that he wanted to do isn't happening. He's coming down just for five days now. There is a history of Basava parampara in Karnataka. There is the Navya literary movement that has happened. There is a Dalit movement that has happened here. We are not comfortable with communal politics. "Gauri Lankesh's murder was a silencing act. There is an attempt to get an ideology into the head of people, but Hindus won't accept the hijacking of religion." Still, it looks pretty neck-and-neck at the moment. The old (BJP) candidates have gone, new ones are coming in. The Reddy brothers have come back. The BJP chief ministerial candidate (BS Yeddyurappa) calls them the greatest saviours of the party. Amit Shah says don't even go near them. They should do a pre-poll survey now. People are watching all this and people like me are there to remind them if they forget. You are asking people to vote for Congress. Do you feel comfortable with that? There is no place for being comfortable, right now. We need to speak clearly. First, we have to fight communal politics, which is more dangerous than corruption. Then, we'll have the strength to question the next round of people. Whatever has happened, the political system that has become so bad, it is not just the politicians, we are also responsible. We need to suffer a little bit as well. Who else, then? The BJP won't win. It will be someone else. Life finds a way to sort these things out. Everyone is trying. Someone has to bell the cat. If Jignesh is coming here and speaking in Hindi and people are still coming to listen then it is having an impact. It may not move everyone but it may help people who have already moved. Does this get personal? Gauri Lankesh's murder was a silencing act. There is an attempt to get an ideology into the head of people, but Hindus won't accept the hijacking of religion. They want to brand me anti-Hindu which I am not. They want to get into my personal life, they are more bothered about my son's death and where I am sleeping. But lies do not become truths just because you say it a hundred times. It's just that we'll have to hang on, to continue, to pursue. Your fear becomes somebody else's power.
Timothy Stanley is a historian and columnist for Britain's Daily Telegraph. He is the author of "Citizen Hollywood: How the Collaboration Between LA and DC Revolutionized American Politics." The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) Donald Trump pulling America out of the Iran nuclear deal is the biggest thing he's yet done on the international stage, with the greatest consequences. I understand entirely why people might feel nervous: Iran's warning that it is ready to start nuclear enrichment was frightening. But the President is, on balance, correct. Either the world deals with Iran now, or it deals with a nuclear Iran in the future. The argument for keeping the deal going was reasonable: no one advocating the status quo was "weak" or trying to preserve their Obama-era legacy. But the deal amounted to bribing Iran to suspend its nuclear program, which is like feeding a wild animal scraps of meat to dissuade it from biting you. The deal lifted sanctions, threw the regime an economic lifeline and effectively recognized it as part of the international order. It moved toward the regularization of a pariah state. The problem is that Iran's regime is not regular. Look at what it's been doing since the deal was signed. Even if uranium enrichment has been stopped, Tehran has continued, quite openly, to invest in its missile program. It has harassed foreign citizens It has also hugely expanded its power within the region, establishing a presence in Yemen, Syria and Lebanon. Indeed, a country's attitude toward the Iran deal depends in part on its proximity to Iran. Israel, for instance, cannot tolerate its neighbors being turned into military colonies of a hostile foreign power. It feels vulnerable to attack. If the deal stands as it is, there is a risk that it actually enables the emergence of Iran as a hegemonic power on the brink of attaining the bomb. It would have the same effect as the SALT treaties of the 70s, which were meant to limit Soviet arms growth, but in fact provided cover for the Soviets expanding into Africa, Central America and Asia. It was the collapse of SALT and the early 80s arms race that really pushed the Soviets to the negotiating table, not détente -- and the same logic, I suspect, is applied by the Trump administration to Iran. Why give Iran money, and thus stability, just as its economy is teetering and its people are demonstrating in the streets? Confrontation with Iran is, for its neighbors at least, inevitable and more or less already happening. Trump's decision to draw a line by pulling out of the Iran deal brings in two new dynamics. First, it shifts the focus of present US policy away from just tackling Islamist terrorism that tends to be Sunni (the Islamic State), and toward identifying Iran as a key destabilizer of the Middle East. JUST WATCHED Panelist: Trump allies have no standing to taunt NY AG Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Panelist: Trump allies have no standing to taunt NY AG 05:36 Second, with Trump's decision, the center of gravity in policymaking shifts. The Europeans -- principally Germany, France and Britain -- staked everything on saving the deal. Their diplomatic failure was humiliating. Instead, momentum is now with the United States, Israel and Saudi Arabia. Of these, the most unreliable partner is viewed as Saudi: the United States is allying with a religious dictatorship to contain a religious dictatorship. Life is full of surprises. Trump was elected, many thought, to get America out of the Middle East. Instead, he's helped forge a new local coalition and backed it against Iran. Let's be frank about the long-term goal. The United States wants regime change. Trump's advisers calculate that Iran can never be dealt with as a normal country, that it is constitutionally opposed to US interests, and that it is ripe for revolution. I don't know if all of that is true. I cannot say chaos won't follow this decision. But it had to happen.
In 1976, The New Yorker published a cover illustration by Saul Steinberg called "View of the World from 9th Avenue." The cover was meant to parody the self-obsession of Manhattanites. The island's west side occupies half of the illustration. In the distance are a smattering of indistinguishable American cities and states. Los Angeles is barely visible; San Francisco and Seattle aren't on the map. Beyond is the vast Pacific, with Asia on the horizon. More than four decades later, the American news media still has that worldview. Nearly all the top news organizations are based in New York or Washington. They do cover the world -- including Silicon Valley and Hollywood -- but they prioritize the stories happening on their doorsteps. Sign up for PACIFIC and get daily updates on the stories you need to know But one of the most important stories in the world today isn't happening in Washington or on Wall Street. It's happening on the Pacific Coast. From Seattle to Silicon Valley to Hollywood, the Pacific is the global capital of change and innovation, and the vanguard of a creative and technological revolution. It also happens to be the world's fifth-biggest economy, and home to its five biggest companies by market value. Decisions being made today by the likes of Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk and other people on the U.S.' West Coast will play a major role in shaping society for decades to come. And on the other Pacific Coast, companies in China, Japan and elsewhere are charting a course for the future that will have global impact of its own. The Innovation Economy deserves robust media coverage. It deserves a news source that distills the day-to-day developments in technology and media and provides an understanding of the big picture. It deserves a great morning newsletter that puts the tech and media power players at the center of the action. Wall Street has DealBook. Washington has Playbook. It's about time the West Coast had PACIFIC. PACIFIC is the newsletter for the Innovation Economy. It puts the power players in tech and media at the center of the action, and covers their moves and their interests, because those moves and interests signal where society is headed. It treats Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles not as cities on the periphery, but as capitals of the 21st Century. It works on Pacific Standard Time. If Saul Steinberg were alive today, we'd commission a new view of the world. There in the foreground are South Lake Union, Sand Hill Road and Sunset Boulevard. Asia is on the immediate horizon, very near and growing closer. And in the far distance, circling all the way back to New York and Washington, the rest of the world, waiting to be changed. Sign up for PACIFIC and get daily updates on the stories you need to know
New research has confirmed what those of us who keep emergency cookies in the freezer already know. Dark chocolate really does reduce stress, according to two new studies from Loma Linda University in California. The findings were presented this week at the Experimental Biology 2018 annual meeting in San Diego, and show that eating dark chocolate with a high concentration of cacao (at least 70 per cent) also has positive effects on inflammation, mood, memory and immunity. (We've been conducting similar research for years). Although the benefits of the flavonoids found in chocolate are already well known, this is the first set of studies to look at the effects in humans "to determine how it can support cognitive, endocrine and cardiovascular health," according to a news release. "For years, we have looked at the influence of dark chocolate on neurological functions from the standpoint of sugar content — the more sugar, the happier we are," lead investigator Lee S. Berk, associate dean of research affairs at the School of Allied Health Professions and a researcher in psychoneuroimmunology and food science from Loma Linda University, said in a news release. "This is the first time that we have looked at the impact of large amounts of cacao in doses as small as a regular-sized chocolate bar in humans over short or long periods of time, and are encouraged by the findings. These studies show us that the higher the concentration of cacao, the more positive the impact on cognition, memory, mood, immunity and other beneficial effects." Chocolate is the best Not only is it delicious, but dark chocolate already has a number of health benefits. It's rich in fibre, iron, magnesium, copper, manganese, and other minerals, according to HealthLine. It's also full of antioxidants, may lower blood pressure, can improve some risk factors for heart disease, is good for your skin, and might even improve brain functioning, HealthLine added. A Canadian study of nearly 45,000 people even found that eating chocolate could lower your risk of a stroke. "The higher the cocoa content, as in dark chocolate, the more benefits there are," noted Medical News Today. But don't stuff your face in the name of health just yet. Medical News Today points out that there are negative effects to eating chocolate, too. These can include weight gain and tooth decay due to the sugar and fat content, migraine risk, lower bone density, and there are high levels of heavy metals found in some chocolate (which are toxic to kidneys and bones). "All in all, eating chocolate can have both health benefits and risks. As ever, moderation is key," Medical News Today writes. Further research is needed The two new studies both looked at chocolate containing at least 70 per cent cacao. One found that eating this type of chocolate regulates cellular immune response, neural signalling, and sensory perception. The other study found that 70 per cent cacao "enhances neuroplasticity for behavioral and brain health benefits." However, the authors noted that further research was needed in larger study populations. Our only question is how do we become research subjects?
Caracas, Venezuela (CNN) Socialist President Nicolas Maduro has won another six years in power in crisis-hit Venezuela, in an election that the political opposition and foreign powers have denounced as a sham. Many eligible voters boycotted Sunday's polling, bringing turnout to a lackluster 46%, according to the country's election board. Participation was far below the 80% rate in 2013, when Maduro rose to power after the death of veteran leader Hugo Chavez. Maduro gave a victory speech at a rally in central Caracas on Sunday night, after the electoral board declared him the winner. "I am a better-prepared president and human being right now," he said to a cheering crowd outside Miraflores presidential palace. "You trusted in me and I will respond. Thank you for giving me 68% of those votes." Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro and his wife, Cilia Flores, wave to supporters at the presidential palace in Caracas. The United States said it would not recognize the vote's results, while the European Union and some Latin nations warned before the vote that the election was shaping up to be unfair. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said earlier on Twitter : "Sham elections change nothing. We need Venezuelan people running this country ... a nation with so much to offer the world." Maduro brushed off comments from US officials that the vote lacked legitimacy. "There has been a fierce campaign by the government of Donald Trump. In the United States there has been a fierce pressure to try to besmirch the Venezuelan elections -- and they couldn't," Maduro said earlier Sunday. He added that he would be open to dialogue with the "empire" of the United States. "If the government of the United States wants to dialogue at some point, I am open to dialogue. If the other right wing countries that are supported by the US want to dialogue, I am open to that," he said. Maduro faces international backlash An alliance of 14 Latin American nations and Canada, known as the Lima Group, released a statement Monday calling the vote illegitimate. "We do not recognize the legitimacy of the electoral process that was carried out in Venezuela on May 20th, because it does not adhere to the international standards of a democratic, free, fair and transparent process," the statement said. It also stated that the signatory countries would "decrease their diplomatic relations with Venezuela" and call back their ambassadors in Caracas for "consultation." The alliance includes Argentina, Mexico, Canada, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Panama, Paraguay, St. Lucia, Guyana, Peru, Honduras, Guatemala and Costa Rica. A Venezuelan woman waits at a near-empty polling station on Sunday. The main opposition coalition boycotted the election, but Maduro was not without challengers. Maduro's chief rival for the presidency was Henri Falcon, a former state governor and onetime loyalist of the ruling party who broke ranks in 2010. About 5.8 million votes went to Maduro and Falcon came in second with 1.8 million votes, according to the electoral board, with 92.6% of the votes tallied. On Sunday, Falcon said he would not recognize the results and cited hundreds of complaints of election violations. Election officials said they would address the claims. "In such circumstances we have serious, serious questions on our part and in addition to the questioning that we may have about the process, without any doubt it lacks legitimacy and in this sense, we do not recognize this electoral process," Falcon said. Inflation to hit 13,000% Maduro has continued the huge social welfare programs and price control policies of former leader Hugo Chavez, who steered the country toward socialism. Many Venezuelans saw Chavez as the champion of the poor. Before he died, Chavez picked Maduro as his successor, which helped put Maduro over the top in the 2013 presidential election. Under the two leaders' rule, the oil-dependent country has endured political tumult and economic misery, including food and medicine shortages, and hyperinflation. JUST WATCHED This is what Venezuela needs to fix its economy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This is what Venezuela needs to fix its economy 01:07 Venezuela holds the world's largest supply of crude oil -- which once seemed like an endless gusher of cash for the government. But plummeting oil prices crashed the economy in 2016 and it has since completely collapsed. The country now finds itself in the middle of a financial crisis, and the International Monetary Fund expects inflation in Venezuela to reach 13,000% in 2018. Amid widespread economic anxiety, Maduro also said the country will enter a "new phase" and fight against "the mafias" to revamp the economy. But for many poor Venezuelans, soaring inflation has made every day a struggle. "Nothing is normal," said citizen Carmen Herrera. "The little bit of money that we earn is not enough to buy even half dozen eggs." "I would like to see a change because at this rate, we're not going to get anywhere." Because of the deteriorating situation, an estimated 1.6 million people fled the country between 2015 and 2017, according to the International Organization for Migration Falcon campaigned on a platform to revamp the Venezuelan economy. He believes the way out of the financial crisis is the dollarization of the country's currency, bringing it in alignment with the US dollar. "The hunger situation, the misery, the uncontrolled political situation that our country lives is truly alarming," Falcon said Sunday, as he cast his ballot.
It was a separate practice for women's basketball players at the University of Illinois, a majority of them black, where athletes were often allegedly harassed and attacked for things that had nothing to do with basketball. Like the neighborhoods where they grew up. Or their family life. It was common, these women told CNN, for an assistant coach to refer to race, and to tell them their "culture" was "poison" or "toxic" to the starting team, which was predominantly white. During road games, the players say they were segregated -- black players separated from the white ones in hotel rooms. It was so bad, the women said, four players from this past season transferred out of the program at the University of Illinois to other schools. Nearby, at the university's Memorial Stadium, some members of the football team say they were being harassed too. They recalled two instances where players were physically hit by their coach. Another player, with Type 1 diabetes, said he was shamed about his weight. CNN Investigations Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. CNN has spoken to 15 recently departed players on the football and women's basketball teams, and they allege a wide range of misconduct and persistent bullying of athletes by coaches. In addition, players and their families have complained to CNN that they were pressured to play through injuries that go far beyond the typical tough nature of college sports. In one case, a women's basketball player says she was forced to play with an injured toe that ended up being diagnosed as a broken foot. Athletes on the football team also complained that injuries were not taken seriously -- one recalling a time when coaches threatened from the sidelines that he would lose his scholarship as he limped across the field with a knee injury. Overall, students and parents on both teams say there was a culture of coaches bullying students, with frequent threats to take away their scholarships even though university policy says an athlete can't lose his or her scholarship because of injury or performance in sport. The university's athletic director, Mike Thomas, acknowledged that the allegations are serious and call into question the culture of the program. "I was certainly troubled by all the allegations. And those allegations don't match our core values," he said. "Certainly our student athletes need to be in an environment that's safe, that's healthy, that takes their well-being as primary importance." Women's basketball head coach Matt Bollant and head football coach Tim Beckman declined to comment through a university spokeswoman. "Look at what the university has to lose," said Lydia Tuck, the mother of one former women's basketball player. "I'm sure they're worried about Title IX funding. I'm sure they hope that we go away." Racism alleged on women's basketball team The women's basketball team lost four girls to transfer this year -- all for the same reasons: They allege pervasive emotional abuse. Eight former players -- seven of them have since sued the university -- talked to CNN, and all said that assistant coach Mike Divilbiss verbally attacked players daily, going after them for personal issues such as learning disabilities, family life or the neighborhood in which they grew up. Divilbiss could not be reached for comment. "The way he would attack you personally was just horrible," said Jacqui Grant, a former player. "He came after my character," said former player Alexis Smith, claiming that Divilbiss reprimanded her for moving into the same apartment as two of her teammates who were Bollant's recruits. "He said, 'I feel like you are trying to poison these girls. Why did you even move in with them? You are trying to poison them.' " "When I tried to defend myself," she added, "he was like, 'Don't try to come after me, I'm the wrong person.' " Kierra Morris, who left the team after being put on medical disability, said the coaches told her they didn't want her "culture carrying over" to their new recruits. Another former player, Amarah Coleman said that race was a constant underlying distinction and that Divilbiss often said things like, "you know how black people play." And another former player, Taylor Tuck, said Divilbiss made a comment about three black players sitting together at a restaurant, saying, "All the black girls are sitting together, that's segregated." Divilbiss left the university after coming to what administrators call a "mutual understanding" with Bollant, following complaints from some parents, but Bollant remains in his position. Several former players or their parents told CNN that separate practices were held for the team -- one practice group was majority black, and called "the dog pound," which the players understood to mean they were not in favor. The other practice group was majority white, made up of the starters on the team. In addition, tension between the groups was encouraged, parents wrote in letters of complaint to the university in April. The players said those in the "dog pound" were called "crabs," which, on a conference call, seven of the players explained like this: "Crabs can never get out of a bucket because they always pull each other down. That is how he explained it in practice. ... They all just climb on top of each other and pull each other down. Like, bums, we are just dragging everybody down." Coleman said she felt uncomfortable when her team was preparing to play one that was majority African-American, "because coach Divilbiss would single out the blacks on the team to talk about what the other black team was thinking. ... The division of the team during that time made it feel like coach was thinking all blacks think alike." She continued with more examples: "In practice when a black player would do a certain move, he (Divilbiss) would make a comment stating 'that's the West Side coming out' (referring to Chicago's predominantly black West Side). People should be proud of where they are from, but coach was saying it to make fun of where they are from." Recruitment by a previous coach Six of the former players who spoke to CNN said that Divilbiss made several comments that singled out the black players who were primarily recruited by the previous coach, also an African-American, from the white players who were primarily recruited by Bollant. The players say race wasn't the only factor that led to their mistreatment; they say they believe it also had to do with the fact that they were recruited by a previous coach. "It was a combination. Like you were African-American, and you weren't recruited by them," former player Nia Oden said. In their lawsuit, and in interviews with CNN, the women said they were divided by race when sharing hotel rooms during road games. After the women's parents complained in April, the school did an internal investigation through its diversity council, and "preliminary findings" found no wrongdoing when it came to the allegations of racism and bullying. That led to an outcry from former players and their parents. And in response to them and to questions from CNN, the university announced five days later that it had hired a Chicago law firm to "finalize the preliminary review" that found no wrongdoing. "There's no rush to judgment. You know we will go through an investigative process, and when that process is complete we will look at the next steps," said Thomas, the university's athletic director. "... I think you and I could be watching practice, and you could hear a coach say something to two different kids, those two different kids might take it a different way and you and I might take it a different way. So I think for coaches, not just at the University of Illinois but across the country, these are the kind of things that we're going to be paying attention to moving forward." The university has also hired a separate law firm to look at the claims of medical mistreatment on different teams. Allegations now include a lawsuit filed on June 8 by a former Illinois soccer player who says her concussion was mishandled. The suit says the university failed to follow its own protocol for handling concussions when defender Casey Conine was injured, returning her to play before doctors cleared her. 'A culture of mental and emotional abuse' Divilbiss' departure comes after three sets of parents wrote letters to the administration in late April. In one of the letters, Tuck, the former player, and her husband wrote that bullying and racial tension on the team are systematic and "epidemic," and they accused Bollant, the women's basketball head coach, of creating "a culture of mental and emotional abuse." The family of another player, Taylor Gleason, wrote that she was "bullied and demoralized daily" and was forced to play with an injured toe, which later was diagnosed as a broken foot. "She's just happy to be at a new school and starting over," her father told CNN later. "Just happy to be out of there." Many of the players who left are now playing at other schools, and they said they are having much different and much better experiences. Tom Grusecki, the stepfather of one former player, wrote in a letter to the school that Divilbiss belittled his daughter in front of the team because of her estranged relationship with her father and because of her dyslexia. More than one player said they became so depressed, "it hurt to get out of bed." "The things they said were so personal, attacking, that they would single you out and you felt you were alone," Gleason said. Sarah Livingston, who transferred after the 2014 season, said the final straw, for her, was when another coach just turned away after one of Divilbiss' rants. "That kind of embodied the whole attitude of everyone that wasn't Divilbiss," she said. "He wouldn't stand up for us. He wouldn't tell coach D to stop. Coach Bollant would be quiet and continue with practice," Smith said. Thomas, the university's athletic director, said the university is reevaluating its practice of allowing head coaches to do most of the vetting of assistants they bring in. The university responded by saying that it's disappointed the lawsuit came before the findings of its internal review and that Thomas has asked staff to closely monitor team activities in the meantime. "I cannot stress enough that anytime we learn that a student feels the experience at Illinois isn't excellent, we take those concerns seriously. We intended that through the external review process the student-athletes and their families would help us better understand their concerns and perceptions," Chancellor Phyllis Wise said in a statement. Many players and parents told CNN they won't be happy as long as Bollant remains. One said, "When you are the head coach, you should stop that when you see it. If you can't stop bullying amongst your own staff, that is a problem." Tuck, whose daughter graduated from the program, said the behavior of the coaching staff changed drastically when Bollant was hired after her daughter's freshman year. And, she said, the attitude of the coaches is drastically different from those of her other daughter, who plays under much better circumstances at Connecticut. Football allegations The alleged bullying at the University of Illinois wasn't isolated to one program or one coach. There are also allegations of wrongdoing in the football program. Recently graduated football player Kenny Knight and three other former players who spoke to CNN say they witnessed two incidents in the past two years in which head coach Tim Beckman was physically rough with players. One player is still on the team and declined through his teammates to talk about what happened. But witnesses said that at the start of one practice, the player ran onto the field with his helmet unbuckled, and Beckman ran over to him, grabbed his face mask and jerked his head back and forth, yelling at him. In 2013, Knight says, a similar thing happened to him. He says Beckman grabbed and tackled him from behind, throwing him to the ground during a practice. Two former teammates who witnessed the incident backed him up. They say it happened after Knight was hit "dirty" by another player with his head down -- something that's prohibited in college football. "I immediately got in his face about it," Knight said of the player who hit him. "Before I had the chance to lift a finger, in a matter of seconds, I was grabbed by my shoulder and thrown on the ground. I was livid, I thought I was going to look up and see one of my teammates had thrown me down, but I looked up and saw Tim Beckman staring in my face. I was shocked. I don't think I uttered a word." The university says Beckman thought he was breaking up a fight; Knight and several other players who witnessed the incident said there was no physical fight happening when Beckman hit Knight. Knight's father said the night of the incident, Beckman told him, "Kenny accidentally fell backwards over him." Knight and his father tried to look at the practice tape to review what happened. "There was 35 seconds of blank screen. I could see the dial was moving to let me know that it was still playing, but there was no film to be seen. It wouldn't play for me or for anybody else," he said. Two other players said they, separately, also looked for the incident on the practice tape, but it was not there. The university says the "dead time" between plays is not normally recorded during practice. Knight says Beckman called him the day after speaking to his father to apologize, but Knight never reported the incident to anyone at the university out of fear that he'd lose his scholarship. "He should never be allowed to coach again," Knight said. The National College Players Association is also involved, offering guidance to the players who are coming out publicly and demanding that Illinois fire all coaches involved in physical and verbal abuse. "You can be tough as hell without abusing players," said NCPA president Ramogi Huma. "Everywhere, coaches yell and cuss. That happens everywhere. What doesn't happen everywhere is racism," Huma said, referring to the women's basketball team. "What doesn't happen everywhere is forcing players to play through serious injuries. It's not regular for coaches to put their hands on players -- that's not breaking up a fight, that's starting a fight," he said, referring to the alleged incident with the football team. "At the end of the day, it's about the student-athlete experience, and part of that is their safety, well-being and health," said Thomas, the university's athletic director. "And abuse is not acceptable. We hold our staff to a high standard. That line of what's acceptable and not acceptable is really under the microscope right now." Brothers allege bullying on football team Knight and others are speaking up after fellow former teammate Simon Cvijanovic went on Twitter in May to say that he'd been pressured by Beckman to go back on the field too soon after knee surgery and to play through a shoulder injury. Instead, he quit the team, started the hashtag #BanBeckman and inspired several more teammates to speak up, including Knight, and former player Nick North, who told CNN that he, too, was pushed back into practice after hurting a knee ligament. "They kept saying, 'You need to go back out there,' even though they knew I wasn't 100 percent," North said. "I'd literally be limping while running, and you could see it. ... They were like, if you can't do this, you're going to have to leave. You can't play here. We're going to take your scholarship." North graduated in December. All the players CNN spoke to said that many more stories like these exist, but players are afraid to speak up because they're still on the team. "WHEN @coachbeckman is fired you'll hear plenty more stories but right now he's dangling scholarships like a carrot," Cvijanovic tweeted. WHEN @coachbeckman is fired you'll hear plenty more stories but right now he's dangling scholarships like a carrot — Simon Cvijanović (@IlliniSi) May 10, 2015 He later said, "They act like our bodies are just disposable and we should feel that way also or else we're not team players. ... There's nowhere to turn to so Twitter is where I went." He says Beckman threatened to say bad things about his character to National Football League scouts unless he returned to the field after injuries. Once, he says, he was pressured to return two weeks after an ankle injury that his doctor told him needed a six- to eight-week recovery. His younger brother, who also played football but quit the team, struggled as well. A Type 1 diabetic, Peter Cvijanovic had trouble gaining weight and says he was bullied daily by coaches for it. "They made him step on the scale three to five times a day," Simon Cvijanovic said. "Every time he walked by, coach would make him step up on the scale, and Peter would hang his head and get up on the scale. We were both throwing up in the morning from anxiety -- me from my knee and him because of the weight issue." The university says it cannot discuss the Cvijanovic brothers' or Nick North's allegations in detail because of privacy laws. Thomas said he had not been aware of many of the allegations until being asked for comment by CNN, adding that he would ask the firm investigating to expand its scope. "Anytime you receive these types of allegations, it brings you great concern," he said, later adding, "Here at the University of Illinois, the health and well-being of our student athletes is our number one priority. ... Anytime anything rises to a level of a student athlete being mistreated, I would address it immediately."
Back in February, Dick's Sporting Goods made a bold decision to stop selling assault style rifles and high capacity magazines, and to raise the minimum age to purchase a gun to 21. Executives there braced for pain. Instead they got good news. Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS) stock price surged by as much as 27% after it reported stronger than expected quarterly sales and profit Wednesday. It's the first measure of their decision to pull away from some guns. "There's been a number of people who have started shopping us, or said they're going to shop us more, because of the policy," said Chief Executive Officer Ed Stack on an earnings call with analysts Wednesday. "There's definitely been some benefit of people who joined us, so to speak, because of the policy." Stack said on the call that the company has raised its full year 2018 guidance to a range of $2.92 to $3.12 earnings per share, from a previously announced range of $2.80 to $3. The company also announced that its online sales jumped 24%. Same-store sales, however, were down 2.5%. In its earnings statement, the company blamed the same-store slump on "a continued deceleration in hunt and electronics sales, as well as colder spring weather, which resulted in a delayed start to key outdoor sports and activities." Related: Dick's expected backlash with new gun policy, but got flowers instead Stack, and his chief financial officer, Lee Belitsky, both said the company's "hunt business" was getting dragged down by the company's new gun policy, though it was already on the decline before that. The gun industry as a whole has experienced sharp declines in sales and profit since the 2016 election of President Trump, a Republican endorsed by the National Rifle Association. Concerns about gun control had driven sales during the Obama administration, but those concerns have dissipated since. "Hunting business saw an accelerated decline in an area that was already challenging," said Belitsky. While the company's new gun policy might have gained some fans among customers, it definitely turned off some friends among the gun industry. The National Shooting Sports Foundation, a gun industry group, expelled Dick's from its membership on May 4. The NSSF said it made the move after Dick's hired a gun control lobbyist. Related: Dick's stops selling 'assault-style' weapons A few days later, on May 9, the gun maker Mossberg terminated its relationship with Dick's. "We don't have the best relationship with the firearms manufacturers right now," said Stack, when asked about it by an analyst. "As far as the NSSF expelling us, we didn't have a whole lot to do with them ... It's not really that big of a deal." Other big retailers have made changes to their gun policies since a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Florida, that killed 17 people. Walmart, (WMT)which stopped selling assault-style rifles in 2015, earlier this year raised the minimum gun buying age to 21. Kroger (KR) also said it would phase out gun sales at its Fred Meyer stores. Related: Bank of America sticks with Remington through Chapter 11 The gun and ammunition maker Vista Outdoor (VSTO)said earlier this month that it might divest from its gun brands. But under pressure from Wall Street firm BlackRock (BLK), a major shareholder, American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), which owns the Smith & Wesson brand, said it won't be pushed into "politically motivated" actions. A top executive for Bank of America (BAC) said in April that the bank would no longer "finance military-style firearms for civilian use," though the bank continued to help Remington through its bankruptcy process, which ended earlier this month.
South Korea was at a loss for words Thursday after President Donald Trump’s announcement that he was scrapping next month’s planned nuclear summit with North Korea. “We are attempting to make sense of what, precisely, President Trump means,” South Korean presidential spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom said in a statement. South Korean President Moon Jae-In urged both Trump and Kim to hold direct talks, South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency reported. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, testifying on Capitol Hill, wouldn’t comment on whether Trump’s letter blindsided the South Koreans. The summit’s fate was thrown into question after North Korea backed away from the Trump administration’s demands to fully denuclearize. Trump then appeared to soften the demand, hinting first that he was flexible, but then saying there would be no meeting without full denuclearization. Trump’s national security adviser John Bolton and Vice President Mike Pence sparked further North Korean outrage with comments comparing North Korea with Libya. Just hours before Trump pulled the trigger to cancel the meeting, North Korean officials called Pence a “political dummy” and threatened to pull out of the summit themselves. “Sadly, based on the tremendous anger and open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting,” Trump wrote in a letter to Kim shared with reporters on Thursday.
(CNN) High-intensity interval training will be the No. 1 fitness trend in the coming year, while smartphone exercise apps that prompt your activities will be out -- or so says the Worldwide Survey of Fitness Trends for 2018 . Such training, known as HIIT, typically involves short bursts of high-intensity exercise followed by a short period of rest or recovery: intermittently sprinting for 30 seconds, for example, during a moderate-pace jog. The US national physical activity guidelines recommend 150 minutes of moderate activity or 75 minutes of vigorous activity each week with additional muscle-strengthening exercise for adults and 60 minutes a day for children, noted Walter R. Thompson, author of the report and prtesident of the American College of Sports Medicine. "So if you step it up a little bit and get your heart rate up and move from, say, walking to jogging, it decreases to 75 minutes per week." HIIT is a worthy way to meet your physical activity guidelines, he said. "But there's a word of caution with that: Anytime you do high-intensity anything, there may be an increased risk of injury." If you doubt your ability to safely exercise in high-intensity bursts, Thompson recommends that you "get a good physical exam" before starting a program. Over the past 12 years, the editors of the American College of Sports Medicine's Health & Fitness Journal have circulated an electronic survey to thousands of professionals, including personal trainers and physical therapists, to predict the biggest health and fitness trends for the coming year. This year's survey, which included responses from 4,133 fitness professionals around the globe, placed "group training" -- classes involving more than five participants -- in the No. 2 slot. Meanwhile, "wearable technology" -- such as activity trackers and smartwatches -- came in third, and "body weight training" -- the use of your own body weight as a form of resistance while doing modified pushups and other exercises -- came in fourth. "Strength training," or the use of barbells and weights, placed fifth. Thompson said the survey was developed for two purposes, the first being "to help guide the fitness industry." Although most of the industry is "commercial properties," the survey is also helpful to community-based organizations, corporate wellness programs and medical fitness centers. "They need some direction as to what will be the next trend in the industry so that when they use their valuable resources for something, they know it's going to work," Thompson said. "We also do it from the perspective of people who use the gym, the clients," he said. "It helps them identify gyms across the country that are offering the best kinds of exercise programs." Three new trends found a place on the top 20 list: "licensure for fitness professionals", "core training" and "sport-specific Training." Licensure refers to the general trend toward more regulation of fitness professionals, such as personal trainers. Core work stresses strength and conditioning of the stabilizing muscles of the abdomen, thorax and back. Sport-specific exercising is usually geared toward younger athletes and focuses on a single sport, such as tennis or boxing. Meanwhile, "work-site health promotion" (which ranked 16th in last year's survey) and "outcomes measures" (previously 18th) fell from the top 20 list. In other words, incentive programs in employer-based health care benefits plans and comparison measurements to improve performance are no longer fashionable among the gym set. One of the biggest surprises on the 2018 list was the "re-emergence of group exercise programs," said Thompson, who remembers "back in the day when that was all we did." Personal training, which was introduced around 2000, reduced the popularity of group training, he noted. However, after the recession, less expensive group training sessions re-emerged and apparently continue to thrive. "It's got to help increase revenue and decrease expenses," Thompson said. Another trend for 2018 will be older adults being welcomed back into fitness clubs. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Most gyms "still see their greatest revenue source as the 25- to 35-year-old age bracket," Thompson said. But the "really smart clubs" are changing music and lighting during slower times when the typical gym-goer is at work, "so that now, the 60-year-old feels comfortable going into the gym," he said. "It makes total sense." Finally, yoga remains in the top 10, where it has been since the survey started, Thompson said. "Yoga keeps reinventing itself."
(CNN) Along the streets of Beijing, flyers advertising newly built gyms are passed into everyone's hands. With prices ranging from 1,000 RMB to 19,000 RMB (US $156 to $2,974) a year, salespeople are ready to explain the advantages of their gym's membership card over the competition. Exercise isn't traditionally part of Chinese culture, barring some aunties square-dancing in the park and a few tai chi practitioners on the sidelines. But that's changing now, with the hashtag #MajiaXian going viral on Weibo, China's Twitter. Because the outline of well-toned abdominal muscles looks like a vest, Chinese call abs "majia" -- or "vest" -- and "xian" -- or "lines," and this year they have become the goal of many women's pre-summer workouts. Related terms such as "MajiaXian VS Fat Tiger," "Follow Victoria Secret Models to have Majia Xian" or "If you don't lose weight in May, only sadness will be left in June" rank high on Weibo's list of trending topics They have been trending since Chinese New Year, when people make resolutions, and will continue to do so through summer until late fall -- when people wear less clothing. Traditionally, a more willowy physique has been considered to be ideal for Chinese women -- as represented in literature, art, families and education -- and gyms were not a common part of everyday life. But increasing exposure to Western lifestyles has made a desire for a more muscular physique, namely abdominal muscles, trendy. 'I want to have majia xian, and I will have it one day' After seeing people around her with six-packs, fashion designer Liang Yuan started to work out with the goal of well-defined abs. She bought a gym membership as a birthday gift for herself. Friends and family members have started to call her a "fitness monster" because she goes to the gym twice a day, seven days in a row. "I want to challenge myself," she added. Liang skips most social outings so she can hunker down in a nearby fitness studio after work. Over the next two hours, she works up a sweat via a mix of high-intensity interval training, boxing, aerial yoga and sometimes dancing. On Liang's WeChat, the most popular social media app in China, she documents her journey toward majia xian. After 50-minute HIIT training, Liang Yuan takes photos of herself to document her workout days. "This is not just a beginning; this is a way to look back," she wrote, summarizing her achievements in 2017. "I have done something I didn't even dare to dream in the past, and now I achieved something I thought I was unable to do." She had developed a six-pack. The goal of defined abs is shared by hundreds of thousands of young Chinese women like Liu Zhichang, a 25-year-old operator in a marketing team of a tech company in Beijing, drawing them to gyms. Workout posts on WeChat have spread among her friends like a "virus," she said, adding that every woman wants to have majia xian, especially when they see their friends' toned abs. "At the beginning, I secretly admired them," she said. She dedicated herself to working out, making it a habit. She said to herself, "I want to have majia xian, and I will have it one day." 'They want to be like a skeleton or a piece of paper' Women in China have long associated being beautiful with being skinny, but a desire to be thin is often taken to the extreme, with detrimental effect on health and self-esteem -- a situation not unique to China. Hou Shiyao, CEO of a new women-only gym called Fit 4 Life in Beijing, said that most of the women who come to her studio aim to lose weight from the start. "They want to be like a skeleton or a piece of paper." Many fads attest to this obsession. The A4 social media challenge in 2017 featured women posting pictures of themselves covering their waists with an A4 sheet of paper (21 centimeters by 29.7 centimeters, or 8 inches by 11 inches). Another had women posting pictures of themselves wrapping their hands around their waists to show off their slender physiques. The Weibo hashtag "I have waist of A4 size" has been viewed more than 210 million times. Hou Shiyao, left, and Zhang Weiya founded the women-only gym Fit 4 Life in Beijing. Absorbing a steady diet of internet celebrities' photos, many girls dream of sharing their favorite star's body shape despite the fact that everyone is born with a different one. 'Eventually, you will accept who you are' But for some women today, going to the gym has changed their goals, as they discover that body shape can be changed somewhat by gaining muscle without losing weight. Shi Wen, who attended her first fitness class two years ago with the aim of being thin, is now a part-time trainer. Now, she says that being skinny doesn't matter; she's fine the way she is. Many workout-obsessed women are increasingly realizing that no matter how hard they try, they won't be supermodels, and acknowledging that physiques can vary due to a number of factors. This is an important step on their path to self-acceptance. For many, the aim of losing weight has transformed into the desire to be the best version of themselves. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "Eventually, you will accept who you are and live peacefully with your disadvantages," Hou said. Liu doesn't weigh herself as often as she used to. Instead, she pays more attention to the changes in her body. But majia xian is still her ultimate goal. "I hope I can wear a crop top this summer!" she said.
Press Association Markle was escorted to Windsor Castle by her mother, Doria Ragland. Prince Charles walked the former actress down the aisle, as her father, Thomas Markle, was too ill to attend the ceremony. Her father spoke to TMZ about the nuptials, telling the outlet, “My baby looks beautiful and she looks very happy. I wish I were there and I wish them all my love and all happiness.” Ms. Meghan Markle arrives at St George's Chapel #RoyalWedding pic.twitter.com/Hj79je8glV — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) May 19, 2018 Markle then joined Harry at the altar, where he took a moment to tell Markle “You look amazing” and hearts all over the world melted: The sweet ceremony included so many highlights, including a reading from the late Princess Diana’s sister, Lady Jane Fellowes, and a rousing sermon from Bishop Michael Curry which he included quotes from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. People also loved Karen Gibson and The Kingdom Choir singing “Stand By Me:” Karen Gibson and @TheKingdomChoir sing "Stand by me" from the West End of the Chapel #RoyalWedding pic.twitter.com/4V1avJlY3K — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) May 19, 2018 After the wedding, Harry and Meghan stepped out to acknowledge the 200 representatives in attendance from charities that Harry supports. The crowds went WILD when the two kissed: WPA Pool via Getty Images WPA Pool via Getty Images From there, the newlyweds took a carriage ride around Windsor Town that lasted about 25 minutes. Following the ride, the newlyweds headed to a lunch reception at St. George’s Hall hosted by the queen. Kensington Palace announced Saturday that the 600 wedding guests were served a variety of canapés, bowl foods and sweet canapés. Alongside the Scottish langoustines wrapped in smoked salmon with citrus crème fraiche, croquette of Confit Windsor Lamb, roasted vegetables and shallot jam or champagne and pistachio macaroons, guests got to see the bride and grooms’ lemon elderflower wedding cake. Pastry chef Claire Ptak of London’s Violet Cakes, who was actually born in California (just like Markle!), made the cake: The wedding cake is to be served at the Reception. It was designed by Claire Ptak and features elderflower syrup made at The Queen’s residence in Sandringham from the estate’s own elderflower trees, as well as a light sponge cake uniquely formulated for the couple. #royalwedding pic.twitter.com/kt5lE4tEn9 — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) May 19, 2018 PA Wire/PA Images Only 200 guests were invited to the following reception at Frogmore House. Hosted by Prince Charles, it’s for select family and friends of the bride and groom. En route, the bride debuted her second dress: a high-neck, shoulder-baring Stella McCartney number in lily white silk crepe. With their baby-blue insoles, Meghan’s mesh and satin Aquazzura shoes served as her “something blue.” She and Harry, who changed into a black tuxedo, set off in style in a 1968 silver-blue Jaguar E-Type Concept Zero. PA Wire/PA Images Harry helped his bride into a blue Jag before they set off to a private reception. After the big day, the couple will likely head back to London to their new home at Nottingham Cottage at Kensington Palace. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex plan to delay their honeymoon so they can immediately begin charity work and attend Prince Charles’ 70th Birthday Patronage Celebration, which takes place May 22. Markle and Harry officially announced their engagement on Nov. 27. They began seeing each other in 2016 after a friend set them up on a blind date. For more Prince Harry and Meghan Markle coverage, sign up for our “Watching the Royals” newsletter.
(CNN) The father of a young child dramatically rescued from a Paris balcony Saturday was out playing Pokemon Go when the incident happened. In an interview with CNN affiliate BFM TV Monday, French prosecutor Francois Molins said the four-year-old's father had gone out shopping, leaving the child at home alone. His return to the apartment was delayed when he decided to start playing the smartphone game on the way back. According to Molins, the toddler was being looked after by his father in Paris while his mother was living on Reunion Island, a French-administered territory in the Indian Ocean. Video of the rescue went viral over the weekend , after young Malian migrant Mamoudou Gassama climbed four floors on the outside of an apartment building to save the dangling child. He has now been offered French citizenship and a job with the Paris fire brigade. According to Molins, the father, who faces up to two years in prison for abandoning his parental responsibilities, is devastated by the consequences of his actions. He will be sentenced in September, according to Bruno Badre, a spokesman for the Paris prosecutor. Badre told CNN Tuesday that the boy had been placed in temporary care while the father was in custody, but the two have now been reunited. French President Emmanuel Macron (L) speaks with Mamoudou Gassama, 22, from Mali, at the presidential Élysée Palace in Paris, on May 28. 'I would have hated to see him getting hurt' During a visit Tuesday to the Paris fire brigade that has offered him a job, Gassama, 22, told CNN that he was feeling "really, really good." Speaking to BFM TV shortly after the rescue, he explained that he had been in the neighborhood to watch a football match when he saw the crowd gathering. "I like children, I would have hated to see him getting hurt in front of me. I ran and I looked for solutions to save him and thank God I scaled the front of the building to the balcony," he said. Gassama took less than 30 seconds to reach the boy, using the railings on each balcony to pull himself up to the next floor. He later told French President Emmanuel Macon, who invited Gassama to the Elysee Palace to thank him personally, that the decision to climb the building had been a spontaneous one. "I didn't think about it, I climbed up and God helped me," he said. In the video, cheers broke out when the young migrant reached the dangling child and pulled him over the balcony before Parisian emergency services could arrive. French media quickly dubbed Gassama 'Spider-Man.' Flanked by his older brother, Gassama holds his temporary residence permit after receiving it Tuesday. 'He had extraordinary courage' The video also shows how, shortly after Gassama begins his ascent, a man in the apartment next to where the boy is hanging steps onto his balcony. He reaches across and grabs hold of the child. Responding to accusations that he could have done more to help, the neighbor -- named as Florian -- told BFM TV Tuesday that he feared the boy might fall if he tried to bring him over to his balcony, which is separated from the adjacent one by a wall. "I wanted to act carefully above all and I certainly did not want to risk the child's life," he said. Florian said he was encouraging the child to edge closer to him. "I was talking to him at the same time, I was telling him, 'Come up slowly,'" he said, adding: "He had extraordinary courage." Florian also said that the boy had first fallen from one of the floors above, before "by miracle" grabbing onto the fourth-floor balcony. Neighbor Jerry Alfred told CNN Tuesday that the father and son lived on the sixth floor of the building. Praise from French leaders French President Emmanuel Macron invited Gassama to the Elysee Palace on Monday where he presented the young man with a certificate and a gold medal for performing an act of courage and determination. Gassama spoke to Macron about the rescue and about his difficult journey to France from his home country Mali. Speaking to BFM TV he explained how he traveled through Burkina Faso and Nigeria before crossing the Mediterranean in an overcrowded boat from Libya and finally arriving in France. Un grand bravo à Mamoudou Gassama pour son acte de bravoure qui a permis de sauver hier soir la vie d'un enfant. J'ai eu plaisir à m'entretenir avec lui aujourd'hui par téléphone, afin de le remercier chaleureusement. https://t.co/DP5vQ1VZYh — Anne Hidalgo (@Anne_Hidalgo) May 27, 2018 Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said on her official Twitter on Sunday that she had called Gassama to thank him for his act of bravery. "He explained to me that he arrived from Mali a few months ago with the dream of making a life for himself here. I replied that his heroic act is an example for all citizens and that the city of Paris will obviously be keen to support him in his efforts to settle in France," she tweeted.
(CNN) Gov. Roy Cooper will declare a state of emergency Wednesday for the western part of North Carolina, the governor's office said in a statement. The announcement follows heavy rains that slammed the mountainous area Tuesday and Wednesday, causing mudslides and forcing evacuations and road closures -- including a portion of Interstate 40. "Our emergency response and transportation crews have been working through the night to keep North Carolinians safe as conditions deteriorate," Cooper said. " ... this storm isn't yet over. I'm urging people to keep a close eye on forecasts and flood watches, and asking drivers to use caution especially when traveling in our western counties." The emergency declaration will help the state coordinate its response and "prepare for any additional impacts," the statement said. In the last 24 hours, 4 to 7 inches of rain slammed parts of a region that had been hit by frequent rain for a couple of weeks. And in the next couple of days, there will be a threat of flash flooding as storms persist, the governor's office said. McDowell Co. experiencing most significant flooding since 2004 during Hurricane Frances/Ivan; some WNC areas have seen 15-16" of rain in past 2 weeks. Add'tl 1-2" rain likely in mtns today, continuing chance for flooding/landslides. Saturated soils=downed trees #BeReadyNC! #ncwx pic.twitter.com/ozcPh0iOT1 — NC Emergency Managem (@NCEmergency) May 30, 2018 Residents and businesses near Lake Tahoma Dam appear to have dodged potential disaster Wednesday, after emergency officials called off evacuations. Heavy rains and a landslide in nearby mountains had "compromised the integrity" of the dam and triggered urgent calls for mandatory evacuations, McDowell County emergency officials had said earlier. The dam was "at risk of imminent failure," officials said. The National Weather Service also cited reports from officials that water was spilling around the sides of Lake Tahoma Dam and that evacuations were ongoing. Water flows from the Lake Tahoma Dam in McDowell County, north of downtown Marion, North Carolina. But later, officials said Lake Tahoma had been inspected and deemed safe and a mandatory evacuation was being canceled. "The emergency at Lake Tahoma has been canceled. The evacuation order is no longer in effect. The engineer has performed a safety inspection and determined that the evacuation order is no longer needed," according to a statement on the McDowell County 911/Emergency Management Facebook page. "Please remain alert for additional updates, as additional rainfall is expected this afternoon. We appreciate the public's understanding during this storm." There was also a mandatory evacuation of downtown Old Fort in McDowell County because of flooding, the governor's office said. Just to illustrate how serious the flooding is in western NC: Water swept an NCDOT tandem dump truck off the road overnight in McDowell County. Two people were rescued. Stay off the roads and avoid flooded areas. If you see standing water, turn around. https://t.co/tEKINsy6Px pic.twitter.com/PmHb2qhB0Y — NCDOT Asheville Area (@NCDOT_Asheville) May 30, 2018 The National Weather Service said a flood warning in McDowell remains in effect through 4:30 p.m. The governor's office said Lake Tahoma and other dams, including Lake Lake Lure, Tuxedo and North Fork Lake are being monitored. NCDOT captured this video this morning near the Buncombe/McDowell county line where last night's mudslide temporarily closed part of I-40. https://t.co/K29ltktJNf — NCDOT (@NCDOT) May 30, 2018 Landslides, evacuations, flooding Deadly subtropical depression Alberto, the storm system that has been drenching the Southeast, has caused landslides, evacuations and flash flooding. It has been assessing damage caused by mudslides washouts and flooding on interstates, highways and local roads. Roads have been closed in Avery, Buncombe, McDowell, Watauga, Henderson, Rutherford, Macon, Polk, Mitchell, Transylvania, Gaston, Catawba and Iredell counties, the governor's office said. Biltmore Avenue in Asheville, North Carolina. In Rutherford County, the Town of Lake Lure and Chimney Rock Village declared a state of emergency amid high water levels in the Rocky Broad River, officials said on the town's Facebook page. "Following more than six inches of rain overnight in many areas of Western North Carolina, numerous residents are without power this morning in the Lake Lure area, as many trees are down and roads blocked," Lake Lure said in a Facebook post. Barricades are set in place for safety purposes. Please do not try to go around the barricades and travel through high water. (Note: no one was injured). #Asheville #AvlNews #WNCFloods pic.twitter.com/xuBcXNNjee — Asheville Police (@AshevillePolice) May 30, 2018 Hickory Nut Falls Campground and the Rivercreek Campground have been evacuated, the town said. "The Town has had to repeatedly open the floodgates just to balance the continually rising river levels from the Upper Hickory Nut Gorge," Lake Lure said. "Residents living along the river and in other low-lying areas or areas prone to landslides are urged to take higher ground immediately." There is also a flash flood emergency in Marion, where 4 to 6 inches of rain has fallen, CNN meteorologist Dave Hennen reported. Life-threatening flash flooding is being reported along the Catawba River and its tributaries there. The city of Asheville has reported road and park closings and school delays. It is managing water releases from the North Fork Reservoir Dam. In Buncombe County, a licensed care facility and mobile home parks were evacuated, according to the governor's office. More than 6,500 power outages in western counties were reported. Search and rescue teams were deployed. Most outages were in Henderson, McDowell Cleveland, Buncombe, Swain and Transylvania counties. At Blantyre, moderate flooding is expected at the French Broad River later Wednesday, the governor's office said. We have issued a FLASH FLOOD EMERGENCY for MCDOWELL COUNTY in NC. Flash flooding, landslides, and rapid rises on waterways are an IMMEDIATE threat to life and property. DO NOT ATTEMPT TO DRIVE unless you are fleeing flood waters. THIS IS A LIFE-THREATENING SITUATION. — NWS GSP (@NWSGSP) May 30, 2018 Alberto weakened to a subtropical depression Monday, but millions of people in parts of Alabama, Tennessee, Georgia and Kentucky were still under flash flood watches for much of Tuesday. Heavy rainfall drenched parts of northern Georgia, the western Carolinas and Tennessee on Tuesday, increasing the threat of flash flooding in those areas, the National Weather Service said. After moving into the Tennessee Valley, the system is forecast to head into the Ohio Valley and Great Lakes region Wednesday and Thursday, according to the National Hurricane Center. On Monday, two journalists from South Carolina-based CNN affiliate WYFF were killed in Polk County, North Carolina. A tree fell on their SUV as they covered the hazardous weather, the station said. Alberto made landfall Monday afternoon as a subtropical storm in the Florida Panhandle, reaching maximum sustained winds of 45 mph as it arrived in Laguna Beach, according to the hurricane center.
Glynda C. Carr and Kimberly Peeler-Allen are co-founders of Higher Heights for America, a national organization aimed at bringing black women into politics and elected office. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the authors. (CNN) In her speech after winning the Democratic primary Tuesday night, Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams expressed a bone-deep understanding of the political moment that so many black women have already grasped -- first in private conversations between one another and now, increasingly, with the Democratic power structure that has struggled to see black women as the capable, ready leaders they are. Glynda C. Carr Kimberly Peeler-Allen "... We were born for a time such as this," Abrams said, quoting a verse from the Book of Esther. "And now is a time to defend our values and protect the vulnerable -- to stand in the gap and lead the way." Black women have been leading in this country for centuries as abolitionists, voting rights advocates, college founders, civil rights defenders, labor leaders, entrepreneurs and more. Yet far too often, when they express political aspirations and turn to established institutions for support, they are met with resistance and told their brand of politics doesn't have mass appeal. But Abrams' victory this week makes clear what can happen when black women candidates are afforded support based on their track records, qualifications and policies instead of their skin color. Fifty years after Shirley Chisholm's historic run -- and win -- as the first black woman elected to Congress, Abrams, who received 76% of the Democratic primary vote, is now positioned potentially to become the first black woman to serve as a US governor. Read More
“Seinfeld” comedian Jason Alexander has taken a role in a hilarious new political ad bashing Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), who once notoriously linked climate change to “dinosaur flatulence.” The ad, featuring rival Democratic candidate and tech entrepreneur Harley Rouda, is set up as a political debate “moderated” by Alexander. “Perilous times demand action,” Alexander solemnly explains in the ad. Rohrabacher plays himself, thanks to a series of edited clips in which he “responds” to debate questions. Alexander quips that Rohrabacher is joining the debate via a “secure server from Moscow.” “Asked” about climate change, Rohrabacher insists: “Global warming is a total fraud. We don’t know what those other cycles were caused by in the past. Could be dinosaur flatulence, you know, or who knows?” Rohrabacher last year said he was just joking about the dinosaur bit when he made the statement 11 years ago, and he complained that it’s still quoted by “environmental wackos.” But he doesn’t look like he’s joking. Check out the ad above. And Rohrabacher still dismisses pollution’s link to global warming as a fraud. Rohrabacher recently said homeowners selling their property should have a right to reject gay buyers, and he’s a proponent of improving ties with Russia. Rohrabacher has represented the 48th Congressional District in California for 30 years, but Democrats are hoping to unseat him in November. His district went for Hillary Clinton in 2016. The Democratic Party, however, faces challenging primary regulations that allow the top two winners of a primary to proceed to the general election, regardless of party. Democrats are worried that their party’s eight candidates will so dilute the vote that there won’t be enough support for one Democrat to defeat Rohrabacher. There’s also another GOP candidate, so it’s possible two Republican candidates could be the only ones on the ballot in the general election.
Prince Louis’ birth certificate was delivered Tuesday, making official his already announced name: His Royal Highness Prince Louis Arthur Charles of Cambridge. But the best parts of the document are the listed occupations of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, his parents. “Prince of the United Kingdom” and “Princess of the United Kingdom” would sure look good on a resume too, wouldn’t they?
Yer a wizard, Ari. Ariana Grande and “Saturday Night Live” star Pete Davidson have made their romance official with a photo of the duo essentially dressed up in “Harry Potter” cosplay. Davidson shared an Instagram on Wednesday of himself and the pop star sporting their Hogwarts finest complete with sweatshirts repping two different houses. The comedian is a self-identifying Gryffindor, while Grande opted for the Slytherin house. Davidson captioned the photo, “the chamber of secrets has been opened.”
Washington (CNN) The Senate Intelligence Committee remains deeply divided over whether there is evidence of collusion between Donald Trump's campaign and Russia after a year-long investigation, the latest sign that Congress is unlikely to find consensus over a key question surrounding the 2016 elections. The committee has tried for the past year to showcase bipartisanship in its investigation, taking pride that it has yet to devolve into public partisan mudslinging like its counterpart in the House. But by taking the high ground, the committee has so far punted on making any determination about collusion. Now, senators now find themselves facing the same partisan pitfalls as the House and the rest of Washington over whether there was any collusion and when it should release a report that would have broad ramifications for Trump and the November midterms. Republicans on the panel maintain they've seen no evidence of collusion, while Democrats say it's clear that the Russians had found willing partners in the Trump campaign to sway the 2016 race. "There was clearly an intent to collude," said Oregon Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden. Asked if he believes there's evidence to support the notion of collusion, GOP Sen. Roy Blunt said: "Not that I've seen." Republican Sen. Susan Collins of Maine agreed. "Our investigation is not complete, but to this date and time I have not," Collins said when asked if she'd seen evidence of collusion. Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr, a North Carolina Republican, said that the committee has "a handful" of witnesses remaining to interview. He was hopeful the interviews could be completed by June and the report itself could be done by Labor Day -- but it's unclear if the panel will be able to release an unclassified report before the midterms. Added to the complications: midterm politics and special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation. Some on the panel, like Collins, resist the idea of issuing a report on collusion in the run-up to the midterm elections when control of Congress will be at stake, while others are skeptical about concluding their probe while Mueller appears to be charging ahead. JUST WATCHED Rudy Giuliani: Mueller probe now illegitimate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rudy Giuliani: Mueller probe now illegitimate 01:28 "No, no," said California Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein, said when asked if the panel's report on collusion would be as definitive as Mueller's probe. "Look what he's done with the indictment," she said, referring to the 13 Russians charged by the special counsel for allegedly seeking to meddle in the 2016 race. "So I think they have a level of professionalism and a level of law behind them that we don't." Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat facing a tough re-election battle in West Virginia, said the ultimate question about whether Trump associates colluded with the Russians will be decided by Mueller. "I really think that's where Mueller will prove that case. ... I think he's done deeper dives than we did," Manchin said, citing "tools" that the committee doesn't have. How the committee ultimately deals with the matter will be a major test for the two leaders of the panel, Burr and Vice Chairman Mark Warner, a Democrat. Burr, in particular, has managed to distance himself from the controversy engulfing House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes, who has taken a series of steps that have given the White House ammunition to fight back against the investigations, from his "memo" alleging surveillance abuses to a GOP committee that stated the panel found no evidence of collusion. Burr cannot hold out forever -- he at some point will have to wade into the issue of collusion that could either help Trump's case -- or put him in the crosshairs of the President of his own party. In recent interviews, Burr has expressed skepticism that there was collusion, but he has been careful not to make a judgment yet. "I'm going to wait until we have all the facts before I make a determination," Burr said. Yet Burr has resisted Democratic demands to bring Trump associates back for a second round of interviews to sit down for questioning by senators after their initial meetings with Senate staff. Senators have not participated in the vast majority of interviews with witnesses so far, leaving it to the staff of the panel, which Burr has argued is how the committee has traditionally conducted major investigations. Indeed, Burr has backtracked on a pledge he gave to bring back Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen, who met privately with committee staff last year. "Not that I know of right now," Burr said when asked last month if he had more questions for Cohen. Moreover, Burr has been uneager to dig into other areas at the request of Democrats like Wyden, who say the panel needs to fully investigate Trump's finances to learn about the extent of the Russia connections. "I am not at all satisfied on where the committee is on the follow-the-money issue, and if anything, the case for following the money is stronger today than it was 60 days ago," Wyden said last week, citing reports about Cohen receiving payments for a firm with ties to a Russian oligarch. Warner, however, has suggested that the issue about potential money laundering was better suited for Mueller to investigate -- not the Senate panel. And Warner has been cautious about asserting that the panel has evidence to make a definitive statement on collusion. "We're going through this on a methodical basis and will follow the facts," said Warner, who would not predict the probe would conclude before November. Others are more forceful in their beliefs on collusion. Sen. Jim Risch, an Idaho Republican, made clear he sees no evidence of collusion and doesn't expect any will emerge, seizing on comments last year from Feinstein that she hadn't seen any evidence that the campaign received "dirt" on Hillary Clinton from the Russians. "I've been ready a long time now. I'm so ready you can't believe it," Risch said of the end of the investigation. "I've looked at thousands and thousands of pages and reviewed the transcripts. I'm not at liberty to disclose what my conclusion is, but Dianne Feinstein said some time ago she saw no evidence of collusion, and Dianne is a really good friend of mind - and sometimes she gets things exactly right." Feinstein pushed back. "Define collusion," Feinstein said when asked if she believed there was evidence showing collusion. "Were there meetings to discuss things? We know there were. Is that collusion? So, I think the definitive (investigation) is the Mueller probe." A committee source said senators may not agree about whether Trump is tied to any potential collusion. But the source said that a majority of senators on the panel are on the same page when it comes to the facts surrounding problematic contacts that members of Trump's team had with Russians during the campaign. JUST WATCHED Senate panel breaks with House on Russia meddling Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Senate panel breaks with House on Russia meddling 03:21 Interim reports As the committee's investigation crossed the one-year mark, Burr and Warner began releasing portions of their investigation that had been completed in March -- on issues separate from collusion where the panel could achieve bipartisan consensus. The senators have put out an unclassified report and recommendations tied to election security and finished their examination of the US Intelligence Community's January 2017 assessment, agreeing with the conclusion that Russian President Vladimir Putin was trying to help Trump in 2016 -- a finding that was at odds with Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee. Burr and Warner are planning two more interim reports, one on the Obama administration's response to the Russian meddling, and another on the use of social media in the election. Then once those are done, the committee will be left to try to tackle the collusion question. The committee has interviewed more than 100 witnesses and reviewed hundreds of thousands of pages of documents related to the probe that's been underway since January 2017. And while the committee's senators largely said they should operate separately from Mueller, the special counsel investigation has already proven the ability to uncover information that Congress does not have, which could potentially change the trajectory of the Senate probe should they wait for more of Mueller's findings. Over the course of the various Russia investigations, numerous contacts between Trump's team and Russians have been uncovered, including the 2016 Trump Tower meeting between Donald Trump Jr. and Russian operatives, as well as Trump foreign policy campaign adviser George Papadopoulos' 2016 meeting with a London professor who also was offering damaging information on Clinton that came from the Russians. "I think what's clear is there was a set of relationships and a friendliness inside this campaign with high-level Russian operatives that we've really never an analog for in our country's history," said Sen. Martin Heinrich, a New Mexico Democrat. "I'm not going to speak prematurely to the outcome of the investigation but I think that alone should be shocking to the American people." JUST WATCHED Warner: Possible 'pattern' on Don Jr meetings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Warner: Possible 'pattern' on Don Jr meetings 03:52 Finished by Labor Day? Burr has suggested the report can be done by Labor Day. "This gives us the month of August in all likelihood to wrap up our investigation. And for staff to work intensely while we're out of here not getting in their hair," Burr said. "We could be in a situation where members could look at that and digest it over the beginning of September." Burr, however, has previously predicted the investigation could have concluded by the end of 2017 and early into 2018, deadlines that have come and gone while the committee continues to quietly interview witnesses. And it's not clear, even if the committee completed its investigation by September, whether it would be able to release an unclassified report before the midterms. But the schedule could create a dilemma for Burr. Some, liked Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris, argue that the election should have no bearing on when the committee puts out its final document. "I think that it should run its natural course," Harris said. "Certainly it shouldn't be motivated by any election or politics at all." Yet others are skeptical about taking such a step in the heat of the midterms, saying the conclusion will be viewed skeptically by the public. Manchin argued that anything issued right before the elections risks being viewed as "politically motivated" that is "not going to help us come to the conclusion we have confidence and faith in." Collins praised Burr and Warner for their handling of the investigation so far, but she said she had concerns about the report coming out in the heat of the campaign season. "I think that it should not be right before the midterms," she said.
Michael Bociurkiw is a writer and development professional who has worked on emergencies on several continents, most recently as a spokesman for the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) Without firing a shot or sacrificing a life, the Ukrainian security services have scored a direct propaganda hit against the Kremlin in its staging of the "murder" of Russian journalist Arkady Babchenko. But at what cost? The unfolding story over the past 24 hours is as shocking as it is bizarre.The journalism community and friends of Babchenko mourned as news of his alleged murder -- by an assailant painted as cowardly for shooting him in the back three times -- was reported Tuesday. Less than 24 hours later, the 41-year-old Babchenko was paraded at a press conference organized by Ukraine security services. The journalist, who was a prime target for his scathing criticism of the Kremlin, said the Ukrainian authorities approached him a month ago with evidence that his murder was planned for $30,000. "I understood it had to be an operation of Russian special services. I had no choice but to participate in the sting," he told a packed Kiev news conference today. Two suspects are in custody and Ukrainian authorities say they've established a link to Russian special forces. To some, the operation was reminiscent of Egypt's attempt in 1984 to fake the murder of a leading opponent of Libyan strongman Moammar Gadhafi. In a statement, the Russian foreign ministry said it was glad Babchenko is alive, but called the incident "another anti-Russian provocation" and said it was "obviously designed for a certain propaganda effect." That Babchenko would allow himself to take part in a sting operation, even dupe his close friends and colleagues, to catch his alleged assailant compromises journalists at a time when they are under attack in Ukraine and in many other places around the world. Do we need another excuse for the media to be branded as fake or manipulative? Kiev authorities said they were made aware of the plot four months ago and staged the elaborate ploy in order to capture suspects. Ukrainian television channel 112 is reporting that a suspect also planned to set up a "weapons base" in the Ukrainian capital in order to launch more terrorist attacks. Wrote my friend, journalist Anna Nemtsova: "No fake news ever shocked reporters working in Russia and Ukraine more than this story." While expressing relief that Babchenko is alive, many journalists and media watchdogs have come out slamming the operation. The global media watchdog, Reporters Without Borders, said , "it is always dangerous for States to play with the facts, and also on the back of journalists." And the Committee to Protect Journalists says that it is investigating what it calls "an unprecedented situation" -- adding that the Ukrainian authorities need to disclose what necessitated the extreme measure of staging news of the murder. One journalist described the sting as "a mindless and tragic mistreatment of public empathy that discredits so many things at once -- Ukraine, Russian liberals, journalists. Only the Kremlin wins." Whatever the explanation, the operation could have been done in such a way as to not compromise the journalist -- or the news media as a whole. Ukrainian law enforcement has a well-deserved reputation for incompetence, cover-ups and colluding with corrupt oligarchs. Several murder cases -- including that of Pavel Sheremet, a journalist who was killed in broad daylight in Kiev in 2016 -- remain unsolved and not one wanted major figure from the previous administration of Viktor Yanukovych has been placed behind bars. And so the temptation to show a major win in its hybrid war against Russia must have been irresistible. But this sting operation resembled something more like an amateur public relations exercise than a serious counter-intelligence operation. Moreover, parading Babchenko at a press conference in Kiev plays into the hands of those who accuse the media of being fake or untrustworthy. As we traverse the shoals of a post-truth world it can only further undermine people's trust in journalism. Furthermore, the credibility of Ukrainian security officials will suffer in the long term. Anything the Ukrainian Government says henceforth will now have to be double and triple checked. Ukraine's beleaguered president, Petro Poroshenko, also needs to answer for what could very well end up being a major strategic communications disaster for his country. With elections next year and his approval ratings in the single digits, he has back-pedaled on internationally-backed reforms designed to break up the state security service, the SBU, into a a leaner organization that is more professional and efficient -- and less prone to corruption. At a time when Ukraine is positioning itself as a responsible member of the European community and is begging international donors for assistance in countering "fake news," why would it contribute to its spread? As for Babchenko? It could be that the price for his head has significantly increased, and he will likely require round-the-clock protection for the rest of his life. Then again, it is not often that one gets to read what has been written about you after your death.
(CNN) With Tom Wolfe, the most important thing was what you didn't see. What you saw, of course, was the white suit. Perhaps no American writer in history was more identified with an article of clothing. The outfit -- flashy, unique, an unapologetic plea for attention -- seemed symbolic, too. Wolfe's writing, with its English teacher's nightmare of ALL CAPS and excessive use of exclamation points!!! -- stood out from the crowd as much as he did. But to focus on the suit, or even the punctuation, was to miss the point of Wolfe's genius. He was, above all, a brilliant reporter -- a meticulous and patient observer of the chaotic world around him. Wolfe, who died Monday at 88 , was the rarest bird in American letters, a master of both nonfiction and fiction, an achievement that his distinctive plumage served sometimes to obscure. JUST WATCHED Tom Wolfe reflects on his career (1988) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tom Wolfe reflects on his career (1988) 01:37 Consider, for example, his 1979 masterpiece, " The Right Stuff. " The first American astronauts, from the Mercury program, were almost forgotten by the time Wolfe turned his eye to them. But by steeping himself in the material, Wolfe saw that the astronauts were not even the best story about the era. That role, and Wolfe's book, belonged to Chuck Yeager , the slow-talking West Virginian whose feats as a test pilot made the work of the astronauts (who were just "spam in a can") look small. The phrase -- "the right stuff" -- has become such a cliché that it's easy to forget that Wolfe brought it to us, just a few decades ago. The setting of " The Bonfire of the Vanities " -- the rarefied precincts of Manhattan's Upper East Side -- could not have differed more from the dusty Air Force bases of "The Right Stuff." But in that novel, published in 1987, Wolfe hilariously and wisely revealed both the upside and the underside of the Reagan years among the rich. Read More
NARAVI, Karnataka -- Ashok Poojary was recovering from a brutal assault by sword-wielding assailants when he heard of his own death. "I turned on the television one day and these people were saying that I'm dead," Poojary said, one recent afternoon at his home in Naravi, a settlement nestled between the foothills of the Western Ghats and the Kudremukha mountains in coastal Karnataka. "As you can see, I am alive," he said. Poojary had been incorrectly included in a list of 23 Hindutva political workers, allegedly slain by Muslim extremists, compiled by the Bharatiya Janta Party. These deaths, the BJP said, were an indictment of the Congress Party rule in Karnataka. Poojary is not the only erroneous addition; there are other deaths – independent assessments have found – not related to communal violence. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube Yet, this list of 23 has become a mainstay of the BJP campaign speeches across the state. In Sirsi, BJP's star campaigner, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said, "I have come here to call upon you to outrightly reject the divisive politics of the Congress, the jihadi mindset of the Congress, its policies of supporting terrorism and corruption." Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "We want to promote the ease of doing business, but they have encouraged the ease of doing murder." The violence has not been one way: Muslim men have died as well. Yet, the back and forth over numbers obscures how murder has become an accepted form of politics in a region described, by locals, as a laboratory of communal politics. "Communalism has seeped into the very cleavage of society," said Tolpady Rajaram, a political science professor at Mangalore University, adding that the routine pitting of Hindus against Muslims had taken a sinister new form. "It is not typical communalization, not sporadic bursts of violence, but calculated cold blooded murder," Rajaram said. "It is a celebration of violence that brings about a constant state of fear," he said. "It is influencing how people think and act." Communalism has seeped into the very cleavage of society. READ: In Karnataka's Hindutva Heartland, A Catholic And A Muslim Find No Joy In Casting Their First Vote Ashok Poojary at his home in Naravi, Karnataka in May, 2018. A divided community For Ashok Poojary, the man who came back from the dead, the attack on his life has not prompted a rethink on communalism. Rather, it has reinforced his belief that Hindus and Muslims cannot live together. "I'm sick of the Congress. They always side with Muslims. I want the Congress out the country," he said, while pointing out the scars of seven gashes on his head. "The BJP should come to power. They help Hindus." When Poojary, who is a member of the Bajrang Dal, was attacked, his fellow Hindutva activists rallied around and gathered approximately ₹2,00,000 for him, he said. Had he died, the pay-offs would have been much greater. In February, BJP President Amit Shah made a campaign stop at the home of Deepak Rao, a distributor of mobile SIM cards, who was killed by Muslim assailants in the town of Katipalla, on January 3. While the Congress government paid his family ₹10,00,000 as compensation, local Hindu activists gathered several times that amount through an online campaign on social media, his family members said. "The BJP has taken care of my needs," said Premlata, Rao's mother. Mohiuddin Bava, a local Congress MLA had offered her ₹5,00,000 as well. But Premlata turned him down. Premlata stayed silent when asked why she refused Bava's contribution, but a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) activist at her home pulled up a widely circulated image on his phone by way of explanation. "This is a Hindu house," the message reads. "Congress that won with the blessing of Allah do not have permission to enter." Congress that won with the blessing of Allah does not have permission to enter. A short car ride from Rao's home, Imran Basheer had a question for Amit Shah. "Why did he not meet Abdul Basheer's family?" he asked. "He is a national leader of the party ruling at the Centre. Are we not citizens of India?" Basheer's father, Abdul, who ran a fast food joint on the highway near Mangalore, was slain in a retaliatory attack a few hours after Rao was killed. It was after his father died that Basheer, who works as a store manager in Dubai, decided to vote for the first time. "The Congress helped my family and I want to vote for those who helped me," he said. "If Amit Shah had met us, even phoned us, it would have made me think, but he made the divisions clear." If Amit Shah had met us, even phoned us, it would have made me think, but he made the divisions clear. READ: For Modi's Fans, He's Still the Man Politics of murder Deepak Rao and Abdul Basheer's murders were preceded by the murders of Prashant Poojary, a Bajrang Dal activist and a flower seller, Ashraf Kalayi, a member of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and an auto rickshaw driver, and RSS worker Sharath Madiwala, who was stabbed by assailants while he was closing his father's laundry shop. The Congress government has claimed that only nine of the 23 deaths were connected to communal violence. Analysts are divided on how effective BJP's communal blitz will prove. Narendar Pani, a political analyst at the Bangalore-based National Institute of Advanced Studies, noted that the murders are a consequence of the rivalry between the BJP and the SDPI, the political wing of the Popular Frontier of India (PFI), a Muslim organization linked to the murder of Hindu activists. "Whether the BJP can convert that into a problem for the Congress, well, only the results will tell," Pani said. For the SDPI, the implications of this violence are clear. "The BJP incites violence for votes, while the Congress comes to get votes after the violence," said Ilyas Thumbay, general secretary of the SDPI. While denying any involvement of his party in the killings, Thumbay said, "The Sangh Parivar has been growing in strength for the past 50 years. I agree that violence is not a solution but Muslims need to protect themselves." The BJP incites violence for votes, while the Congress comes to get votes after the violence. READ: Actor Prakash Raj Talks About Pushback Against The BJP Sharath Madiwala's father "Go away," said Thaniyappa Madiwala, while conducting business at his laundry shop in the town of Bantwal. "My son is dead. What do you want me to say?" Then, the grieving father burst into an angry tirade against Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. "You see that bus stand, how far is it? Just 50 meters away, even less," he said. "Well, Siddaramaiah came to inaugurate that bus stand but he did not bother to come and speak to us." News of his son's death, Madiwala said, was suppressed for a whole day by the A.J. Hospital and Research Centre in Mangalore. "They did not tell us to avoid embarrassing Siddaramaiah who was attending an event in Mangalore," he said. "Not only did the CM not speak with us, they suppressed the news." The Hindu has previously reported that Madiwala had died at 12:30 am on July 7, according to hospital's post mortem report, but it was announced in the night, after the chief minister left town. "You see, why I'm angry," said Madiwala. The Congress has twice, tried to drop charges against Muslims accused in communal violence cases. U.T. Khader, the Congress lawmaker from Mangalore and Karnataka's Food Minister, refuted charges that his party was seeking political advantage from the murders. "There is no partiality on the part of the Congress," Khader said, "It is the BJP that are experts in politicizing death." Ramarajan, the political analyst, contested this claim. "Not only has the Congress shown little interest in addressing communalism, it is intellectually bankrupt when it comes to understanding it," he said. "Its only response is to blame the Sangh Parivar and the BJP." Not only has the Congress shown little interest in addressing communalism, it is intellectually bankrupt when it comes to understanding it. Two realities There remains, however, a deep undercurrent of social fraternity. Standing near the grave of his slain brother Ashraf Kalayi, 32-year-old Mohammed Sadiq Kalayi flipped through the photographs on his mobile phone. "See this photo is with a Hindu family, this one is with a Hindu elderly woman that he was helping," Kalayi, a driver, said. "My brother was first and foremost a social worker. He did not see Hindu and Muslim when he was helping people." Madiwala, whose son was killed, noted that it was a Muslim vegetable vendor, Abdul Rauf, who rushed his son to the hospital. In Basheer's case, it was a Hindu man, Shekhar Kulal, who rushed him to the hospital. In Rao's case, it was his friend and boss, Abdul Majeed, who tried to save him. Premalatha recounted the warm relationship that her son had with Majeed. Poojary did not fail to mention that it was a local Christian priest who used his contacts to get him ₹20,000 off from his huge medical bill. Basheer explained how alien it was for him to think on communal lines. "My friend circle is almost all Hindus. My best friend in Dubai is Hindu. I went to Bengaluru to attend the wedding of a Hindu friend," he said. Sadly, it is the Islamic festival of Eid that Basheer hardly ever celebrated with his father. "Now, I regret that we got so caught up with things, with life, with making a living," he said. "I did not know that I had such little time left with him." Also on HuffPost India:
Elisabetta Zavoli for HuffPost Sewing production area at a Pan Brothers garment factory in Tangerang, Jakarta. JAKARTA, Indonesia ― The bell rings in a garment factory on the outskirts of the sprawling city, signaling the end of a nine-hour shift. “No overtime for me today,” says Istiyaroh as she rushes to collect her belongings from the lockers. Workers gradually flow outside into the steamy late afternoon heat. As the crowd of mostly women grows in size and noise, Istiyaroh (who goes by Istiy for short) jumps into one of the vans taking employees to the distant exit. Squashed among a dozen others giggling in their colored headscarves, she sums up her day: “I double-stitched the shoulders of 80 shirts per hour,” she says, relieved but tired. “But sometimes it’s hard to meet the target.” Istiy, 35, is one of the over 2 million garment industry workers in Indonesia, the world’s fourth most-populous country and one of the top 10 garment exporters. Indonesia is less reliant on this industry than other developing southeast Asian countries, like Cambodia and Bangladesh. Yet, some 60 percent of Indonesia’s garment workers are women. And it is women who will be mostly affected by what the United Nations’ International Labour Organization identifies as a looming risk for millions of workers in Asia: automation, robots and artificial intelligence. Elisabetta Zavoli for HuffPost Istiyaroh, 35, an employee at Kaho Indah Citra Garment factory in North Jakarta, collects her bag from a locker when she finishes her shift. Female workers in Indonesia represent one of the most vulnerable links in a vast global supply chain that provides cheap, quickly produced clothing for the likes of H&M, Zara, Adidas and Nike. The irony is that the world’s hunger for fast fashion may one day put women like Istiy out of a job. As demand increases — the global apparel industry is expected to reach sales of $1.65 trillion by 2020, a 60 percent leap from 2011 — the industry is steaming ahead with new and higher levels of automation to accelerate and optimize production. “Throughout the 1990s and early 2000s, the cost of labor was so cheap it stymied innovation in the sector generally,” the ILO’s Gary Rynhart said. But working conditions and wages have slowly improved over the years. And now the industry is approaching a crossroads, where automation offers an opportunity to cut costs again and churn out products faster than ever. “The technology now exists to automate a lot or maybe all of those jobs.” Rynhart said. “It’s a question of when the cost of labor is no longer a decisive factor ... it’s a ‘when,’ not an ‘if,’ scenario. And as we have seen, technological change can happen fast.” Governments in Asia and weak labor unions are failing to address these warnings, with millions of jobs possibly at risk, according to the ILO. And garment workers can sense that change is coming. “I am worried,” says Istiy. “I don’t want to become unemployed.” The van stops and she walks the 15 minutes through a noisy alleyway to her home. As is the case for thousands of other garment workers, home is a six-square-foot hot cubicle flimsily partitioned from its neighbors for which she pays $25 a month. Crammed under the metal roof are a makeshift kitchen, two plastic wardrobes with neatly piled clothes, a sewing machine, a TV and the mattress she unfolds every night. Precious personal touches hang on the wall: a string of Christmas lights and photos of her two daughters ― the 11-year-old in dancing outfits, and the 17-year-old wearing sunglasses. Istiy’s girls live hundreds of miles away with her elderly parents, and she provides for all of them with a $250 monthly salary. It is higher than in most of Southeast Asia, but so are living costs in the city. Her world was very different seven years ago, when she was a stay-at-home mom and her husband supported the family selling nasi goreng chicken on the street. But his death, following complications from pneumonia, changed everything and forced Istiy to seek work that took her away from her daughters. Elisabetta Zavoli for HuffPost Istiy cries inside her tiny rental room while speaking of the two daughters she left behind in her village. She insists life is OK as long as she can make her daughters happy. But even as she says it, her voice breaks: “When I open this door I feel so lonely, so lonely.” “But what else can I do?” This is an industry notorious for its lack of safety and in which many women face verbal, physical and sexual harassment. Automation might create a higher number of skilled jobs and make factory work less dangerous for some. But for women like Istiy, there are few certainties and plenty of fears. Much of the automation so far in Indonesia has aimed to optimize production by replacing old machinery, and to keep pace with tough regional competition. According to an ILO survey, 35 percent of companies in Indonesia reported upgrading technology in 2016, higher than the southeast Asia average of 27 percent. But while this kind of change is generally welcomed by workers, experts say automation is already picking up in a way that suggests job losses will start to rise. The cost of labor is just one of the many reasons automation is starting to take hold in the country, but it looms large in the mind of Robert Siagian, a former garment factory worker and a leader of the national union Serikat Pekerja Nasional in North Jakarta. “Whenever there was a minimum-wage increase, the company I worked at ... called a consultant to optimize costs,” Siagian said. “So they bought machinery to automate the process — like a cutting machine — and lay off people.” He mentions a department where, six years ago, nine of 45 workers were made redundant while production increased over 30 percent. HuffPost met with one of these laid-off workers, a woman named Istikomah, who now lives in a village in West Java. Elisabetta Zavoli for HuffPost A worker sits at a machine for stitching buttons on jackets and pants, at Pan Brothers garment factory in Tangerang, Jakarta. “I loved working with those modern machines,” she said, as her 3-year-old asked to play. “They improved working conditions and made our work more precise.” “But with machines comes the pressure,” Istikomah added. “They expected us to work more because we had this splendid machinery — and targets got higher and higher. ... And if you didn’t meet that target, you would get scolded. Some colleagues got ill because they’d skipped lunch.” “They wanted us to become machines,” she said. Istikomah, who earns occasional money selling snacks, says she’s lucky because her husband has a good job. “But if all these women lose their jobs, most of them wouldn’t know what to do,” she said. “The government has to prepare, they should provide free training, education.” Unions agree that automation isn’t all bad. It can increase productivity and protect workers from exposure to harmful chemicals in the textile dyeing process. But pre-planning is needed. “Companies need to warn us at least two years before they buy new machines, to prepare,” said Elly Rosita Silaban of the Garteks Federation of Textile and Garment Workers Union. New factory tech varies widely throughout the region. Some machines use lasers to cut far more layers of fabric than a human could, and with greater speed; others iron and sew items while people merely load and unload the finished products. In a Pan Brothers sportswear factory in Tangerang, west Jakarta, activity is frenetic. Lines of sewing machines are humming as a dashboard sets workers their daily target. Yet, behind a glass wall with a sign reading “No photographs allowed” sits a two-week-old acquisition: a $20,000 machine from China which weighs the precise amount of feathers to fill each section of a down jacket and spreads them evenly. “Until very recently, this was all done manually, with hands and sticks,” explained Marissi Jordan, assistant manager at Pan Brothers. Now the job requires half the people and is twice as productive, he adds. But newer technology calls for ever lower levels of human intervention. The U.S.-based company SoftWear Automation has triggered much buzz with its Sewbot machine, which cuts and stitches together simple garments like T-shirts completely on its own ― no human required. The goal is to drastically shorten the supply chains of clothing companies, allowing consumers to eventually order personalized clothes with their exact measurements. The Sewbot is available mostly to companies in the U.S. and Europe, for now. Palaniswamy Rajan, chief executive of SoftWear Automation, claims these machines are not a threat to garment workers. Automation will “free energy for better and more skilled jobs, and humans will still be needed for more complex activities,” he said from his Atlanta headquarters. In the long run, whether robots take over garment factories in Asia will be crucial for the future of women like Istiy. Yet, with such availability of cheap labor in Southeast Asia, it could be years before technology costs make the financial case for automation. And in Jakarta, workers laid off for a variety of reasons often become outsourced tailors, working at home with half the pay and fewer rights. Fast-fashion giant H&M, which commissions the production of some of its garments from manufacturers in Indonesia, says it’s “hard to speculate” about the future of the industry. “The Asian market is an important sourcing market to us,” a company spokesperson said by email. “But it is also an important retail market for our operations,” H&M added, referring to the gleaming shopping malls in Jakarta selling its products, though at prices Istiy can only dream of. The ILO says that, overall, big brands like H&M have improved standards for working conditions. But David Welsh, country director in Southeast Asia for the Solidarity Center, a U.S.-based workers’ rights organization, says major clothing companies fail to prioritize their employees. “The brands control and seek out specific market dynamics and it’s a deliberately exploitative system,” he noted. Consumers, meanwhile, are generally unaware of the precarious position garment workers occupy in Indonesia. Criticism of the industry tends to home in on countries like Bangladesh and Cambodia, where clothes manufacturing makes up an outsized part of the economy and stories about dangerous labor conditions and low pay grab international headlines. “While the impact of automation in Indonesia could be very bad for those immediately affected, this doesn’t register in the global consciousness of media and consumers because the garment industry is a blip on the overall economy of Indonesia,” Welsh explained. Back in the cubicle, Istiy is eager to have her daily call with her daughters. Sunday she will go for a run with some neighbors, after cleaning the common toilets. But now, too tired to cook anything other than instant noodles, she ends her day watching ”Karma,” an Indonesian reality show where the characters predict what future their actions have earned. “I hope my family is proud of me,” she says. Elisabetta Zavoli for HuffPost After work, Istiy watches TV in her tiny rental home.
Washington (CNN) There were a few different ways President Donald Trump could have gone with his response to the firing of Roseanne Barr by ABC after the comedian made a racist comment about former Obama administration official Valerie Jarrett. He could have: Surprise! He went with option three -- as he so often does. "Bob Iger of ABC called Valerie Jarrett to let her know that 'ABC does not tolerate comments like those' made by Roseanne Barr," Trump tweeted Wednesday afternoon . "Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC. Maybe I just didn't get the call?" This is the second time this week Trump has taken a major national moment and made it about himself. His Memorial Day tweet focused much more on his accomplishments than it did on the troops. None of this should be surprising. Trump is unapologetically self-centered. His first calculation is, always, "What does this mean for me?" That doesn't make Trump different from the average person -- self-interest is always near or at the top of our minds -- but it does separate his statements from how presidents have reacted publicly in the past. Presidents prior to Trump viewed themselves as a sort of moral compass for the country. They, for the most part, tried to consider the broader message their actions sent. Trump is seemingly unconcerned about those sorts of concerns. Therefore, the national debate over race occasioned by Roseanne's tweet translates -- to Trump -- not as an opportunity to move the country beyond her repugnant views, but rather as a chance to cast himself as the victim of a wicked media double standard. The Point: Trump isn't a "we" president. He's a "me" president. And that is perhaps his most profound break with presidents past.
How do firefighters put out a blaze when they can't reach the flames? That's the challenge firefighters confronted in 2008, when a B-2 Stealth Bomber crashed on the runway at an American airbase in Guam. The crew successfully ejected, but the hugely expensive aircraft was completely destroyed by a fire that burned deep within its wreckage. "The firefighters had difficulty getting through the composite layers of the aircraft skin to fight the fire," U.S. Air Force Chief Master Sgt. Scott Knupp told CNNMoney. The loss of the aircraft prompted the Air Force to search for a solution. "We were looking for some type of technology out there that would help us penetrate through [to] hard-to-reach spaces to get water onto the fire," said Knupp. Air Force firefighters now use a system called PyroLance -- a firefighting "gun" that can blast through steel, brick or concrete walls, and even bullet-resistant glass. The hand-held device uses a mixture of pressurized water and granite material to pierce a six millimeter-wide hole through obstacles. Once the ultra-high pressure spray penetrates the surface, the PyroLance nozzle continues to pump a fine mist of micro droplets into the enclosed space, lowering the temperature from around 1,500 F to 200 F in less than a minute. Using ultra-high pressure (UHP) technology to put out fires isn't new in itself. The Air Force Research Laboratory at Tyndall Air Force Base in Florida began researching and testing UHP in the mid 2000s. It found that water pumped at higher pressures produces millions of micro water droplets. This spray extends across a greater surface area, helping extinguish fires faster while using less water. But PyroLance president Scott Alexander said his company is the only one that uses the technology to penetrate a barrier and extinguish a fire. PyroLance began supplying the U.S. Air Force five years ago and the technology has also been adopted by the U.S. Navy, as well as numerous airports and fire services around the world. The system costs from $15,000 to $80,000, and the company hopes to sell 350 units at home and abroad over the next year. Alexander said that one of the biggest challenges his company faces is convincing firefighters that it isn't trying to eliminate their jobs or "take the fun out of firefighting." He said the company wants to reduce firefighters' exposure to intense heat, deadly backdrafts and toxic smoke environments. "The reality is we're trying to keep them safe," he said.
Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Deadpool 2": Ryan Reynolds returns as the subversive superhero with a crude sense of humor -- and this time he's assembling his own crew. It opens May 18. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Book Club": Diane Keaton, Candice Bergen, Jane Fonda and Mary Steenburgen star as a group of mature women whose selection of "50 Shades of Grey" for their monthly book club leads to some surprising results. The film is in theaters May 18. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Solo: A Star Wars Story": The origin tale of a young Han Solo has had fans in a speculation tizzy ever since it was announced. How it will be received as part of the "Star Wars" cannon remains a question. The movie stars Alden Ehrenreich as Solo, arriving in a galaxy not so far away on May 25. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Adrift": What happens when you mix one of the most catastrophic hurricanes in recorded history with a love story? You'll find out June 1 when this film, based on a true story, hits theaters. It stars Shailene Woodley and Sam Claflin. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Ocean's 8": This star studded cast led by Sandra Bullock aims to turn the "Ocean's" franchise on its head. In it, a group of women attempt to pull off the heist of the century at New York City's star-studded annual Met Gala. It opens, appropriately enough, on June 8. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Tag": A group of school friends spend years playing tag -- determined to get the one member who has yet to be caught -- in this comedy starring Jon Hamm, Jeremy Renner, Isla Fisher and Hannibal Buress. Look for it in theaters June 15. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Incredibles 2": Fans have been waiting for Pixar to release the sequel to "The Incredibles" since that film dropped in 2004. This time, the story centers around the matriarch of the Parr family, Elastagirl. She is kept plenty busy fighting crime while her husband, Mr. Incredible, is home tending to their superhero kids. The animated film comes to theaters June 15. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom": The fifth installment of the "Jurassic Park" franchise finds star Chris Pratt returning as Owen Brady. He teams up with girlfriend Claire Dearing (Bryce Dallas Howard), who has formed a dinosaur rescue organization. The movie roars into theaters June 22. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Sorry to Bother You": "Atlanta" star Lakeith Stanfield takes on the role of black telemarketer Cassius Green, who discovers the key to professional success when he uses his "white voice." The film comes out July 6. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Ant-man and the Wasp": Marvel's smallest superhero is back, and this time he has a partner. Paul Rudd returns in the sequel to 2015's "Ant-man," joined by Evangeline Lilly as the Wasp. In this film, Rudd's Scott Lang/Ant-man seeks to balance fatherhood and being a superhero. It buzzes into theaters July 6. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Mama Mia! Here We Go Again": Christine Baranski, Amanda Seyfried and Julie Walters join Cher and Meryl Streep in this romantic musical comedy in which a young pregnant woman learns about her mother's pregnancy with her. The sequel to the 2008 film arrives in theaters July 20. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: 'Deadpool 2' and other hot summer movies "Hot Summer Nights": Timothée Chalame stars in this coming-of-age film about a teen's scorching summer in Cape Cod, Massachusetts. The movie arrives in theaters July 27. Hide Caption 12 of 13
Cochabamba, Bolivia (CNN) Brisa De Angulo grew up in Bolivia and remembers having a wonderful childhood. That is, until she was 15. That's when she suffered repeated sexual abuse by an adult in her extended family. His threats to hurt other family members silenced her. She fell into a deep depression, dropped out of school and developed an eating disorder. She made multiple suicide attempts. When she finally gained the courage to tell her parents about the abuse, they reported it to the police and took the case to court. But they had trouble finding a lawyer willing to take the case. Members of her community worked to silence her. Her home was set on fire twice, and people tried to run her down with their cars. "There was a lot of pressure for me to stay silent, but I just couldn't stay silent," said De Angulo, now 30. "I found out that I wasn't alone, that there were tons of girls that were also being sexually abused, and I had to do something." Of the 12 countries that make up South America, Bolivia has the highest rates of sexual violence against women -- with seven in 10 women experiencing it in their lifetime. In 2004, at 17 years old, De Angulo established Fundación Una Brisa de Esperanza -- or A Breeze of Hope Foundation . At its center in Cochabamba, Bolivia, the group provides free and comprehensive psychological, legal, medical and social services for child and adolescent survivors of sexual abuse. "We work with the families...to see (the) child as a very powerful survivor, and to have the support that she needs so that she can take her case to court, and she can heal," De Angulo said. The organization also advocates for legal reforms and policy changes for the rights of abuse survivors in Bolivia. "I had to use the rest of my life to prevent other girls from going through what I went through," said De Angulo, whose extensive team has assisted about 1,500 young survivors. CNN spoke with De Angulo about her work. Below is an edited version of the conversation. CNN: Sexual violence has long been prevalent in Bolivia. What are the cultural stereotypes you're working to combat? Brisa De Angulo: We see it a lot in Bolivia, that a woman is seen as having less value than men, and that starts even before the baby is born. If it's a boy, then you're in this culture of being more aggressive, the one who has control. If you're a girl, then you're this one who has to be submissive, not make problems and sit quietly. Even from a very young age, their path is already set. We need to start changing that mentality so that they can be born in a context where they will be seen as equal. One of our most powerful ways of challenging the machismo culture is to work with pregnant women, to work with that family, to start challenging the stereotypical roles. We also work a lot with prevention by giving workshops, training people -- people from government, police officers, judges, prosecutors, children in school. CNN: Your experiences inspired you to pursue your law degree. What impact has your organization's legal efforts had? De Angulo: When I went to the authorities, I was blamed for what happened to me, I was questioned for many hours. I was told that I was insensitive for wanting to put a man in jail, for wanting to destroy my family. I was one of the first adolescents in Bolivia to take my case to court, but the judges didn't want to take my case. When we started the program, the conviction rate for sexual crimes was .02 percent. From the hundreds of cases that we've taken to court, we have a 95 percent conviction rate. When I was taking my case to court, at the time, it was normal for an aggressor to question the victim on trial. It wasn't a lawyer, it wasn't the judge; it was the aggressor. Through our work, we've proved that that is a human rights violation and have changed the law. Another law is that if the aggressor married the victim, you couldn't take the aggressor to court for rape. That was being used to marry a 13-year-old with a 40-year-old just to make sure that this man will never be taken to court for rape crimes. Thanks to all our work and our push to the government, we have been able to overturn this law. CNN: The country now has an annual Walk Against Sexual Violence. How did that come about? De Angulo: August 9 was one of the hardest days of my life because it was the day I had to go to court and face my aggressor. I started telling my story and asking people if they would join me on a walk against sexual violence and use a blue ribbon, meaning that you were against sexual violence. (The first year) I thought there were only going to be about 20 people who would join me. But that day, thousands of people showed up with a blue ribbon. August 9 was later declared the National Day Against Sexual Violence in Bolivia. Now thousands of people all around the country, in the most remote communities, march on August 9. It's beautiful because sometimes you are walking in the street and you see someone with a blue ribbon and you just look at their eyes and you know that we're in this together. And you don't have to say any words, but you know that you're not alone. Want to get involved? Check out the A Breeze of Hope Foundation website and see how to help. To donate to A Breeze of Hope Foundation, click the CrowdRise widget below.
Jerusalem (CNN) US Ambassador to Israel David Friedman was embroiled in controversy Tuesday after being photographed receiving an aerial image of Jerusalem that was edited to include an artist's impression of a Third Temple, instead of the Al-Aqsa Mosque and Dome of the Rock. The photo -- showing Amb. Friedman receiving the poster-sized image -- was taken during a tour of Bnei Brak, an ultra-religious Jewish area near Tel Aviv, held by the Achiya organization, a non-profit group that provides support for children with learning disabilities. The incident forced the US Embassy in Jerusalem to issue a swift response, insisting Amb. Friedman was "not aware of the image that was thrust in front of him when the photo was taken. "He was deeply disappointed that anyone would take advantage of his visit to Bnei Brak to create controversy. The US policy is absolutely clear: We support the status quo at the Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount," the statement added. 1/2 Ambassador Friedman was not aware of the image thrust in front of him when the photo was taken. He was deeply disappointed that anyone would take advantage of his visit to Bnei Brak to create controversy. — USEmbassyJerusalem (@usembassyjlm) May 22, 2018 2/2 The US policy is absolutely clear: we support the status quo on the Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount. — USEmbassyJerusalem (@usembassyjlm) May 22, 2018 Yehuda Mandelovich, a spokesman for Achiya, offered an apology on behalf of his organization and called the incident a "cheap political stunt." Read More
Story highlights The lush side of lobbying is on display at luxury resorts Congressmen and senators host weekend retreats to taste wine, fish, play golf Lobbyists accept the exclusive invitations -- and then make political donations They say there's no better access to politicians and their staffs On any given weekend, lobbyists in Washington head for the airport to jet off to luxurious locations across the country. Destinations include Napa Valley in California for wine tasting, Wyoming for fly fishing and any number of spas, golf courses, even exclusive hunting trips. They are invited to these weekend retreats by members of Congress and their political action committees. The cost of accepting the invite is a political donation of anywhere from $1,500 to $5,000. And that doesn't include the cost of travel and lodging at some of the most posh resorts in the United States. Why go? Lobbyists tell CNN there is no better access to a member of Congress and his or her top staff than spending a relaxing weekend with them, away from Capitol Hill. Rep. Duncan Hunter hosted a cocktail party as the sun set over the Pacific. It used to be that lobbyists would take politicians on trips, but when rules were changed and that was outlawed, politicians and their fund-raisers came up with this variation -- organize the trips and invite the lobbyists along to pay for them. This past August, CNN followed U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-California, to a lush weekend retreat at the Montage Laguna Beach resort . The weekend was capped off by a seaside cocktail party hosted by the congressman as the sun set over the Pacific. In early September, U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Maryland, hosted a golf weekend at the Inn at Perry Cabin , a posh resort on the banks of Chesapeake Bay. A Friday night terrace cocktail party included a special appearance by fellow Maryland lawmaker U.S. Rep. Steny Hoyer, D-Maryland, who was one of the first on the links the next morning. Both Cardin and Hunter declined interview requests. Hunter's aide told us: "The congressman holds events of all types in many different venues and either people choose to support him or they don't, simple as that." Cardin's communications director, Sue Walitsky, sent an email explaining that the fund-raiser at the Inn at Perry Cabin was for the senator's leadership PAC, "so none of the funds raised went to support his personal campaign." Sen. Ben Cardin welcomed paying guests to the Inn at Perry Cabin, overlooking Chesapeake Bay. She went on to say the weekend also provided the senator "an opportunity to show off one of the many beautiful locations in his home state." Want to travel in congressional style? Here's a list of some recent and upcoming trips and their sponsors, compiled by the Sunlight Foundation. All you need is an invite and your checkbook. Beach retreat: Dorado Beach, Puerto Rico, at the Ritz-Carlton Reserve, Sen. Bob Menendez, D-New Jersey, October 22-23, 2014 Beach weekend: Kiawah Island, South Carolilna, at The Sanctuary, Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Missouri, October 24-26, 2014 Kiawah Island, South Carolilna, at The Sanctuary, Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Missouri, October 24-26, 2014 Fourth annual Disney weekend: Orlando, at the Four Seasons Resort, Sen. David Vitter, R-Louisiana, November 7-9, 2014 Golf/spa weekend: White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, at The Greenbrier, Sen. Mike Crapo, R-Idaho, November 14-16, 2014 Ski weekend: Deer Valley, Utah, Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, December 6, 2014 Ski weekend: Jackson Hole, Wyoming, Sen. John Barasso, R-Wyoming, February 20-21, 2015
Michael Smart is an assistant professor of transportation planning at the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. The views expressed are his own. (CNN) Imagine being able to travel from New York to Los Angeles without having to step on a plane, yet be able to do so in a fraction of the time it would take to drive. On the surface, that tantalizing prospect took a step closer with the news last month that a Japanese maglev train had reached a top speed of close to 400 mph, breaking its own world record in the process. And the sight of futuristic looking trains whizzing past platforms at hundreds of miles per hour isn't confined to Japan: China, France and Spain, to name a few, have their own high-speed rail networks. Indeed, while these bullet trains may look futuristic, they have been around for decades; they're a tried and tested technology that the Japanese debuted over 50 years ago. So surely it's only a matter of time before large numbers of U.S. passengers are doing a daily commute to New York from Washington and Boston in about the time it would take them to drive to work in their own cities, right? Not anytime soon. While several countries have undertaken the tough work of raising the money to invest in bullet trains, it's unlikely the United States will ever see the vast network of high-speed trains that blanket other countries. Indeed, passenger rail service in the United States lags behind much of the rest of the developed world, for several reasons. For a start, much of the United States is not exactly an ideal market for high-speed rail. Compared to places where rail really flourishes -- Japan and Western Europe, for instance -- the United States is geographically vast. As a result, in much of the country, cities are far enough apart that air travel provides significant time savings, even compared to some of the fastest trains. JUST WATCHED Japan's trains as safe as they are fast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Japan's trains as safe as they are fast 02:19 The layout of cities matters, too. When you arrive in Tokyo, Paris or Barcelona, it's often convenient (and even pleasant) to walk to your final destination. When it's not, a fast and frequent mass transportation system awaits to whisk you away. This is not the case in many American cities, where arriving by train typically means jumping into a cab or renting a car for the last leg of your journey. Simply put, in many sprawling U.S. cities, getting to your destination by train can still mean you've got quite a way yet to get home. We could change that. And we probably should. But we're not there yet. Still, there are several parts of the United States where high-speed rail makes a great deal of sense. The Northeast Corridor (Boston-New York-Washington) comes in at the top of just about every list of potential candidates for high-speed rail, with the distances involved being considered within the "Goldilocks" zone for fast trains. For example, at just over 200 miles from New York to both Boston and Washington, fast trains could compete with even faster airplanes by offering centrally located stations and providing an alternative to the hassle of airport security lines. These cities are dense, have strong downtowns, and extensive mass transit systems once you arrive. Just as importantly, rail on the Northeast Corridor can also compete with driving, mainly because traffic congestion makes driving in the region so slow and unreliable, while tolls and parking costs can make it an expensive and time-consuming option. Rail in the northeast even has a great track record; after Amtrak's almost-high-speed Acela service began on the Northeast Corridor in 2000, ridership exploded, quickly outstripping air travel between New York and Washington. However, the biggest barrier to improved rail service in the United States is simply the lack of political will. At the federal level, support for passenger rail service has languished and Washington has devolved decision-making (and increasingly, funding) to the states. With the nation's transportation trust fund nearly broke and no permanent solution in sight, it seems unlikely the federal government will champion high-speed rail -- a costly endeavor -- in the near future. Without leadership from the federal government, the states are largely in control. Yet many of the most promising corridors for high-speed rail cross state lines, making it difficult to plan for better rail service. In 2009, the Obama administration awarded nearly a billion dollars of stimulus money to plan and upgrade a high-speed rail line connecting Chicago to Milwaukee and Madison. A year later, Scott Walker, the newly elected governor of Wisconsin, rejected his state's portion of the money and the project was, for the time being, at least, derailed. (The money quickly found its way to a grateful California for its high-speed rail line.) Still, all is not lost for those hoping to see high-speed rail in the United States. JUST WATCHED California's high-speed rail: LA to SF in 3 hours Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California's high-speed rail: LA to SF in 3 hours 01:17 California is committed to building its high-speed rail link between San Francisco and Los Angeles, paying for the line largely with state money raised by a new cap-and-trade market on carbon emissions. Several privately funded projects are also in the planning stages. For instance, a Dallas-to-Houston line promises 205 mph service in 2021 without a single dollar from the taxpayer. Meanwhile, another private company has already begun construction on a Miami-to-Orlando line with a more modest speed of 125 mph, with service expected to begin in 2017. All this points to how high-speed rail will likely progress in the United States: piecemeal. It is doubtful that we will have a nationwide system of fast trains soon. And this is not necessarily a bad thing; through a combination of private and public action, we should target markets where high-speed rail makes sense. That means looking for shorter corridors connecting dense places with existing mass transit infrastructure. High-speed rail won't be cheap, so we'll have to choose wisely. Some of the most promising corridors are also the most expensive; Amtrak estimates upgrading the Northeast Corridor to true high-speed rail would cost upward of $150 billion . Such an undertaking requires careful consideration of the economic, environmental and other costs and benefits of individual projects. But more importantly, it requires the kind of long-term planning that seems to have become vanishingly rare. Thankfully, high-speed rail doesn't have to be an all-or-nothing approach. And while given the choice I would rather be riding Japan's speeding bullet trains, even the incremental improvements we've seen in services like Amtrak's Acela can make rail travel a lot more appealing for the hundreds of thousands of passengers who rely on it every year.
Every generation finds, eventually, a mode of expression that suits it. Cavemen drew lines on their cave walls. Sixties kids marched. My generation, we Gchat, a million tiny windows blinking orange with hopes and dreams and YouTube links, with five-year plans and lunch plans. So as I began to search for a single phrase that could, preposterously, describe our entire cohort, post-crash, I did what I always do in moments of crisis. I Gchatted my 24-year-old sister Clare, who happens to be living back at home with our parents while she looks for a job: (10:24 p.m.) CLARE: how about they just call us SAA self-absorbed assholes ME: booo CLARE: we need a D to make it really good SADself-absorbed delusionals ps (10:26) can i send you a cover letter right quick? ME: sure (10:28) CLARE: our generation is: delayed afraid immature (10:29) independent fame and glory hungry (ambitious?) weirdly apathetic when it comes to things outside of the internet (10:32) ME: delayed is not our fault CLARE: ok, you know what i always think about when i think of our generation? i read the david brooks book, the social animal and while it was only mediocre, he had this one really great bit that really stuck with methe Greek ideal of thumos, which is the lust not for money or success (in the conventional sense) but the lust for glory we want glory through our ideas-we want to know we matter (10:33) the cold truth is that not all of us are brilliant we are not all big thinkers. Not everyone’s TED talks will change the world some of us will just dissipate into the ether (10:34) but it is the digital connectivity, that proximity to these people, that makes us think that perhaps we will succeed as well (10:35) ok, i’m done (10:36) no i’m not here’s why the recession is so devastating to us we grew up, all the way through college, with everything seeming so ripe and possible (10:37) we had a PC educationpeople tried to hide from us as long as possible that not everyone is equal we were told we all have a fair chance of making it that’s just not so and we’re starting to realize that (10:39) are you even listening to me anymore? (10:41) ME: hi sorry (10:42) i was writing an email i am filing your comments in my file. (10:43) i think your cover letter is good! CLARE: i thought it was ok (10:47) but I am, to be honest, expecting a rejection. I know this might read as very woe-is-us, but these are the facts: Nearly 14 percent of college graduates from the classes of 2006 through 2010 can’t find full-time work, and overall just 55.3 percent of people ages 16 to 29 have jobs. That’s the lowest percentage since World War II, as you might have heard an Occupy Wall Street protester point out. (Not coincidentally, one in five young adults now lives below the poverty line.) Almost a quarter more people ages 25 to 34in other words, people who should be a few years into their independent livesare living with their parents than at the beginning of the recession. Being young is supposed to mean you have the luxury of time. But in hard times, a few fallow years can become a lifetime drag on what you earn, sort of the opposite of compound interest. Because the average person grabs 70 percent of their total pay bumps during their first ten years in the workforce, according to a paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research, having stagnant or nonexistent ­wages during that period means you hit that springboard at a crawl. Economist Lisa Kahn explained to The Atlantic in 2010 that those who graduate into a recession are still earning an average of 10 percent less nearly two decades into their careers. In hard, paycheck-shrinking numbers, the salary lost over that stretch totals around $100,000. That works out to $490 or so less a month, money that could go, say, toward repaying student loans, which for the class of 2009 average $24,000. Those student loans (the responsible borrowing option!) have reportedly passed credit cards as the nation’s largest source of debt. This is not just a rotten moment to be young. It’s a putrid, stinking, several-months-old-stringy-goat-meat moment to be young. Earlier generations have weathered recessions, of course; this stall we’re in has the look of something nastier. Social Security and Medicare are going to be diminished, at best. Hours worked are up even as hiring staggers along: Blood from a stone looks to be the normal order of things going forward, to borrow the business-speak. Economists are warning that even when the economy recuperates, full employment will be lower and growth will be slowera sad little rhyme that adds up to something decidedly ­unpoetic. A majority of Americans say, for the first time ever, that this generation will not be better off than its parents.
Ayesha Hazarika is a British political commentator, writer and former political advisor. The opinions in this article belong to the author. (CNN) Prince Harry is very much his mother's son . As he grew from boy to man, the nation fell in love with his cheeky, fun-loving personality and his natural warmth and kindness. Over time, Harry's love life became a matter of national obsession. He was always seen with a beautiful -- normally blonde -- society girl with a cut-glass accent and from a family steeped in wealth and status. The burning question on every royal watcher's lips was: "Who would snare Britain's most eligible bachelor?" The answer took everyone by surprise. Harry didn't end up with the sort of person everyone thought he would -- a wife born and bred in the upper echelons of British society. Instead, he fell head over heels with someone who has already done more to shake up the royal family since his mother, Princess Diana, did in the 1980s. The first thing to put unequivocally on the record is that this, clearly, is a union based on love. It's not a statement about race relations or an attempt to recreate a Benetton ad. Here are two people who are crazy about each other. However, Meghan Markle marrying into the royal family is a seminal moment in the evolution of British society precisely because she is not from the traditional background that one expects a British royal to mix with. Meghan is from a modest background compared to Harry's previous partners: she was married before and is a divorcee; her parents split when she was young; she was effectively raised by a single parent; and most interesting of all, as well as being a celebrity, she is a woman of color. JUST WATCHED On the road with Harry and Meghan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH On the road with Harry and Meghan 03:19 This is a big deal. Britain likes to pride itself on being a tolerant, inclusive and multicultural society. Yet it still clings to rigid class structure and at the very top is the royal family -- the pinnacle and global symbol of elitism. Power and privilege in Britain are still very white and exclusive. Barely 3% of Britain's most powerful and influential people are from black and minority ethnic groups according to a study by the Guardian and Operation Black Vote from last September. Of course, people of color would be invited to big royal events, but often in an official capacity rather than as a personal friend of the family. High society is still very closed on class and race. While many historians argue that Britain had its first black queen in 1761 when Princess Sophia Charlotte married King George III at the age of 17, her place, status and contribution to the royal family are not well known because she was near enough airbrushed from public record. Meghan Markle is, of course, having a very different experience. While Markle is unlikely to be our Queen, she is the first person of color in modern history to enter the hallowed, magic circle that is the royal family. And this means something particularly in terms of where politics, culture and social issues are right now. Cupid's bow has gifted the royal family a unique opportunity to open itself up and show the country and the world that it can more than just tolerate diversity and modernity -- it can live it. It is telling that the Queen herself has welcomed Meghan so warmly: that very much set the tone. However, it hasn't all been plain sailing. The British media was warned about its coverage of Meghan, which the palace rightly complained had a nasty tone . And of course, there has been blatant racism. But it's this that makes Meghan so interesting. We will have in our royal family, for the first time, someone who has experienced racism and prejudice. She will have an empathy that will mean a lot to people of color -- not just in Britain, but around the world. That ability to be a role model who can connect and walk in someone else's shoes will be a rare and vital quality. And Harry knows that better than anyone. Programming note: No royal wedding invitation? Not to worry. You can stream every moment on your mobile phone, laptop, or wherever you get CNN, starting at 5 a.m. ET on Saturday, May 19.
Story highlights Methamphetamines can't actually carry the Zika virus Police say the post is intended as a platform for help (CNN) In a recent Facebook post, the Gratis, Ohio, Police Department issues a warning and makes an offer: "WARNING: If you have recently purchased Meth in Preble, Montgomery, Darke or Butler Counties it may be contaminated with the Zika Virus. Please bring it to the Gratis Police Department and we will test it for free. If you're not comfortable coming into our office, please contact us and we'll test your Meth in the privacy of your home. Disclaimer: methamphetamine can be a host for the zika virus." Can meth really be a host for Zika ? No, the virus is primarily transmitted through the bite of an infected female Aedes aegypti mosquito. Has anyone taken the police up on their offer? No. Read More
A trio of new Pokémon games is coming to Nintendo's Switch gaming console. The new titles are expected to further boost sales of the Switch, the wildly popular $300 hybrid device that powered Nintendo (NTDOF) to bumper profits last year. One of the games is free to play and is already available for Switch users, The Pokémon Company said Wednesday. The other two -- "Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu!" and "Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee!" -- will go on sale in November, a move that means Nintendo will likely dominate holiday game sales and sell more hardware, according to Serkan Toto, a Tokyo-based game industry analyst. "I expect millions of Pokémon fans to buy the Switch just to be able to play the games," he said. Investors seemed to agree. Nintendo shares jumped more than 4% in Tokyo on Wednesday even though the broader market declined. The new games can connect to Pokémon Go, the augmented-reality game for smartphones that became a global phenomenon in 2016. Though Pokémon Go's popularity has declined, there is still huge potential for Nintendo to attract users through it, according to Toto. Related: Level Up: Nintendo Switch scores 10 million sold "Pokémon Go has been downloaded 800 million times," he said. "Even if the hype is over, it makes total sense to try to reactivate millions of dormant users by connecting the app with the Switch games." Nintendo had previously tapped two of its best-selling franchises -- Super Mario and Legend of Zelda -- to fuel Switch sales. The company's share price has more than doubled since the gaming console debuted in March of last year.
It's our emotional intelligence that gives us the ability to read our instinctive feelings and those of others. It also allows us to understand and label emotions as well as express and regulate them, according to Yale University's Marc Brackett. Most of us would probably like to think that we can do all of the above. We spot and understand emotions in ourselves and others and label them accurately in order to guide our thoughts and actions. But many of us tend to overestimate our own emotional intelligence, according to Brackett, a professor in the Child Study Center at Yale and founding director of the Yale Center for Emotional Intelligence. That's important because experts say the ability to read, understand and respond to emotions in ourselves and other people is a crucial factor in predicting our health, happiness and personal and professional success. So maybe we all need to take a breath and invest a little more time in schooling ourselves on what it means to be emotionally intelligent. Understanding emotional intelligence The theory of emotional intelligence -- and the term itself -- originated at Yale and the University of New Hampshire. Peter Salovey, the 23rd president of Yale University, and John "Jack" Mayer, professor of psychology at the University of New Hampshire, wrote up the theory in 1990, Brackett said. Their work demonstrated how emotions had a marked impact on an individual's thinking and behavior, said Robin Stern, associate director for the Yale Center for Emotional Intelligence and an educator, author and licensed psychoanalyst. Experts have continued to build on that framework to refine definitions of what exactly is at the core of of emotional intelligence. "Emotional intelligence is being smart about your feelings. It's how to use your emotions to inform your thinking and use your thinking to inform your emotions," she said. It's having an awareness of how your emotions drive your decisions and behaviors so you can effectively engage with and influence others, said Sara Canaday, a leadership speaker and author. Individuals who are emotionally intelligent tend to be empathetic, can look at situations from an alternative point of view, are considered open-minded, bounce back from challenges and pursue their goals despite any obstacles they might face, according to Canaday. "Some people think of emotional intelligence as a soft skill or the ability or the tendency to be nice. It's really about understanding what is going on for you in the moment so that you can make conscious choices about how you want to use your emotions and how you want to manage yourself and how you want to be seen in the world," Stern said. "People with more emotional intelligence are healthier, happier and more effective," Brackett said. Why it matters Canaday further suggests that emotional intelligence is a better predictor of career success than an impressive résumé or a high IQ score. Wait, really? Well ... just reflect on your own work experiences, Canaday suggests. Has anyone you worked with ever been let go or asked to leave, even when they had the competency or technical skills for the job? "We might be hired for technical talents, but we are often fired because we lack emotional intelligence," Canaday said. Individuals with a low level of emotional intelligence can be successful, she said, but she argues that those individuals could be even more successful if they had a higher level of emotional intelligence. "It is how well you can collaborate, how well you engage with others and influence. It's the stories you can tell, the way you can bring data to life in a way that connects with others. Those are the things that are going to set you apart." Testing emotional intelligence Behavioral scientists have created a number of emotional intelligence self-assessments, usually broken down into "your ability to manage yourself, your ability to manage relationships, your self-awareness and your social awareness," according to Canaday. Your results will be measured along with others who have taken the assessment to give some indication of where you fall on the spectrum from low to high emotional intelligence. But Brackett warns that "measurement is a tricky subject." In his early research, he found that people tend to overestimate their emotional intelligence, which is why he believes you must measure it through performance assessments. In a performance assessment, people are required to problem-solve; they must decode facial expressions or strategize in an emotionally tense situation. That way, their knowledge and skills can be tested as opposed to their beliefs about them. Another form of an emotional intelligence test is a "360 assessment." In the workplace setting, a 360 assessment is a process involving feedback from colleagues and supervisors evaluating a person emotional intelligence. Canaday believes that we often "see ourselves differently than others do." When a coworker takes the 360 assessment of you it provides an opportunity to compare it to your self-assessment. Another way to take a 360 assessment without undergoing a formal test is to ask a trusted adviser, perhaps a current or former boss, to evaluate your emotional intelligence, she said. But, Canaday cautions, If you ask for someone's feedback, be prepared to accept what they share. "This stuff can feel very personal. On one han,d we say we want to learn and grow, but on the other hand, we want to be accepted just the way we are, and those two human traits run counter." Can I improve my emotional intelligence? So maybe you need to improve your emotional intelligence. How do you do that? From the earliest ages, children should be taught how to recognize their emotions, understand what those emotions mean and label them accurately in order to to express and manage themselves, Stern stern. For adults who did not receive a solid education on emotional intelligence, improving will require some hard work. Canaday suggests creating an action plan including specific goals. "Pick one or two areas where you want to grow, and get some advice on how to best start to embody whatever factor of emotional intelligence you are trying to develop." If you are trying to gain better control of your anger, for example, you might find a healthy outlet for it -- whether it be yoga, meditation or boxing. Canaday also suggests seeking out perspectives from those who may not agree with you. "Be intentional about that. Take active steps to do that. If you constantly surround yourself with people who believe just like you do, then you are hearing the same conversations, and you are not growing, and you are not learning to be open to perspectives." Brackett advises seeking out strategies that are effective for managing emotions. Practice them and then evaluate how those strategies are working for you. It's important to "spend time reflecting on and thinking about your influence and how people respond to your emotions, be more self- and socially aware about your presence." Stern suggests prolonging the time between when you are triggered by something and when you respond. Pause, slow down and take a deep breath. Imagine what your best self looks like. Taking the time to pause and think about what your best self would do in each situation may help you avoid letting your emotions control you. You are allowing yourself time to manage your emotions. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. How we talk to ourselves can also have a huge impact on our emotions and our health if that self-talk is not positive, Stern says. She suggests that we would never talk to another individual the way we often talk to ourselves. "There is no question in my mind that if people were to really appreciate how important emotions are, allowed themselves to have emotions, made space for other people to have their emotions and handled those emotions skillfully in the service of making a better world, we would in fact have a better world."
The Harry Potter author shared a screenshot of a tweet asking why Trump’s signature was “so big” next to one from a graphology website explaining the negative traits associated with people who have large handwriting. J.K. Rowling zinged President Donald Trump on Wednesday with a gibe about his handwriting . . @RJonesUX I didn't believe in graphology until about three minutes ago. https://t.co/29IjYYNjoF pic.twitter.com/GaN9L6oRVv Handwriting-graphology.com claims that people who have large handwriting may be “arrogant,” “conceited” and “haughty” with “tyrant tendencies” and a “phony personality that may become megalomaniac with lack of a critical sense.” “I didn’t believe in graphology until about three minutes ago,” Rowling replied. Her post was well-received:
Google spinoff Dandelion unveiled a cheaper way to cool your home. It involves your lawn. Dandelion, born in the secretive and futuristic lab "X" of Google's parent company Alphabet, uses energy from the ground to cool and heat your home. It announced its first commercial product on Wednesday: a smart heating and air conditioning system called Dandelion Air. Although heating and cooling systems aren't innately sexy, Dandelion is banking on an eco-friendly method to make heating and AC costs lower for homeowners. Related: Apple is now completely powered by clean energy Rather than relying on furnaces and traditional AC systems, Dandelion Air is a geothermal system that uses the ground's energy via plastic pipes and a pump in the home. The systems move heat from the ground into the house in the winter, and heat from the house into the ground in the summer. Geothermal systems reduce carbon dioxide emissions and help save consumers money on energy bills. The concept has been around for decades, but because of its high price and inability to monitor performance over time, adoption has been relatively slow. "It's a very niche technology that hasn't taken off at all in this country," Dandelion CEO Kathy Hannun, a former Google employee, told CNNMoney. Hannun's team at Google's X division sought to make geothermal technology more accessible. X is known for its "moonshots," or big ideas intended to change the world, including self-driving car company Waymo and "Project Loon" Wi-Fi balloons. The team worked on the technology for about two years at Google before becoming its own company. Traditionally, geothermal systems are custom made for homes. But Dandelion wanted to automate the manufacturing process and make the system work with every home. "One thing we looked for at X was adding technology to an industry that hasn't benefited [from tech]," Hannun said. "I started working on it part-time. About two-thirds of the year in [we realized], 'There's something here. Let's focus on it.'" The startup claims Dandelion Air is four times more efficient than furnaces, and almost twice as efficient as traditional air conditioning systems. It also comes with a Nest learning thermostat and a monitoring system to track its performance. Related: How office buildings are reducing their carbon footprint Athough it's half the cost of other geothermal systems, it's far from cheap -- installation costs about $20,000, depending on home size. Considering the Dandelion Air homeowner is expected to save about 20% annually on the cost of heating and cooling their home, the startup hopes this is reason enough for homeowners to go geothermal for new or existing homes. "Homeowners are so used to not having a choice with how they heat [their home]," Hannun said. "But that's what we bring: a choice." The company already attracted early attention from investors, too -- it doesn't hurt to have started at Google. In April, Dandelion said it raised a fresh $4.5 million in funding. Despite upfront costs, Jefferson Tester -- a professor of sustainable energy systems at Cornell University -- says geothermal systems are quiet, more efficient and use less electricity. "Maintenance is also very low, which could be attractive for a homeowner," he said. "There's a huge variability in the cost of geothermal systems. A more standardized approach [like Dandelion's] could be quite attractive." The company ran a six-month pilot program in the Hudson Valley and Capital Districts in New York, and sold 70 systems in existing homes last year. With the official launch of Dandelion Air, the systems will be available in most of New York State starting Wednesday. But geothermal systems may not be a fit for everyone. In states with low electricity costs, a simple AC unit may be cheaper. It can also depend on the type of home someone lives in, according to Tester. "This isn't like buying a refrigerator. [Geothermal] has a lot of custom work that needs to be done in the house," said Tester. "All old homes aren't the same." Customers can check if their home qualifies on Dandelion's website.
Madrid (CNN) Bill Browder, a prominent financial manager and vocal Vladimir Putin critic, was briefly arrested in Spain on a Russian arrest warrant Wednesday. "Urgent: Just was arrested by Spanish police in Madrid on a Russian Interpol arrest warrant," Browder tweeted early Wednesday. "Going to the police station right now." He later tweeted out what he said was an image of the warrant. This is the arrest warrant pic.twitter.com/Cr1Sf4vS4a — Bill Browder (@Billbrowder) May 30, 2018 Spanish authorities confirmed that the anti-corruption activist was arrested in Madrid, but had since been released. "Browder had an international arrest warrant issued by Russia against him and that was the reason he was arrested," a Spanish National Police spokesperson told CNN. "When he was at the police station we realized the arrest warrant wasn't valid, so he was released." Read More
Pro-choice activists campaigning for Ireland’s highly-restrictive abortion laws to be repealed have described how their fight is inextricably linked to the campaign which sucessfully legalised gay marriage in 2015. Speaking from the streets of Dublin just before the country heads to the polls for Ireland’s sixth referendum on abortion, campaigners told HuffPost UK how the issues of sex, sexuality and women’s bodies are intertwined in Ireland. Oonagh Murphy, a repeal campaigner, said many activists who led the gay marriage campaign are the same people now at the centre of the ‘Yes’ camp. “I think the solidarity shown by gay men is absolutely phenomenal in this campaign,” she said, explaining that a number of canvassing groups are led by the gay community. “I think there’s the sense of like: ‘You were there for us, we are gonna be here for you, sisters’.” Murphy continued: “I think what it connects to is a sense that as a queer person you understand that the narrative that’s been driven by the ‘No’ campaign, by the anti-repeal campaign, is a narrative that is extremely heteronormative.” Ailbhe Smyth, the co-director of the Together For Yes campaign, agreed, adding that many LGBTQ+ people have been “involved in pro-choice politics for a really long time”. “When you are challenging the country and the church about your sexuality, you are also at the same time saying you don’t have the right to pass down dictats about what people do with their personal, sexual and reproductive lives. “So for me, there’s never been a kind of: ‘Do I do one or the other?’ The two have always been so closely connected,” Smyth added. “I think that the solidarity that was displayed to us two years ago, three years ago now, in the marriage equality referendum is something that it’s extremely important to show back now,” said Thomas, a member of the equality group ROSA.
(CNN) UPDATE: ABC has canceled "Roseanne," according to a statement from the network's president Channing Dungey. "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show," the executive said in a statement. In a tweet that was later deleted, cast member Emma Kenney, who plays Roseanne's grandchild on the show, praised the network's decision saying, "Bullies do not win. Ever." She added that she felt "empowered" by Sykes and Dungey and "and those at ABC standing up against abuse of power and lack of values." Previously: Read More
To many fans of Donald Glover, it’s no secret that he also goes by the musical stage name Childish Gambino. But, apparently, many fans of Donald Glover and Childish Gambino didn’t know they were the same person. For reference, this is Donald Glover. Dimitrios Kambouris via Getty Images This is Childish Gambino: Kevin Winter via Getty Images So much talent. One person. We know, it’s a lot to comprehend. And if you’re overwhelmed, don’t worry, you’re not alone. On Thursday night, Cardi B tweeted that she thought Childish Gambino and Donald Glover looked extremely similar: “It’s amazing how Donald Glover and Childish Gambino look soo much alike,” she tweeted. “I think they secretly the same person.” The tweet has since been deleted, but a quick poking around on Twitter indicates that her sentiments have been shared by many: I’m going to confess something that has been weighing heavily on my heart for a while. I did not know that Donald Glover and Childish Gambino were the same person. I am ashamed. — Melissa Bonano (@Jingle_Mel_Rock) May 24, 2018 DONALD GLOVER/CHILDISH GAMBINO WAS MARSHALL LEE WHY DID I NEVER REALIZE THIS pic.twitter.com/S38AH9Lkv9 — HUGO⚡️ (@ThatGuyFrisco) May 24, 2018 What if Childish Gambino and Donald Glover were actually twins and they been playing us thinking it’s the same person? 🤔😳 pic.twitter.com/CtSPYwmvm0 — SKY (@skylizzle_) May 24, 2018 everyone remembers where they were when michael jackson died, and everyone remembers where they were when they first found out that donald glover and childish gambino are the same person — jj bittenbinder (@okmikaela) May 25, 2018 Someone I know just found out that Donald Glover and Childish Gambino are the same person. What should I do? — Ice (@mattt_man11) May 26, 2018 I was individually a huge fan of Community, loved "Awaken, My Love!" and particularly 'Redbone' – and was completely blown away by 'This is America' the video. and slowly slowly my mind is realising this is all the same person. Childish Gambino/Donald Glover – what a man. pic.twitter.com/UpX7w5EcyZ — Hrefna Helgadóttir (Habbi) (@HrefnaHelga) May 23, 2018 The movie hasn't started yet but there's no way any part of Solo is going to be better than the guy LOSING HIS MIND outside the theater realizing Childish Gambino and Donald Glover are the same person — Noah Gray? ✪ (@Noahhead) May 25, 2018 Co worker: I want to see #Solo Me: isn’t Childish Gambino is that movie? Co worker: I don’t know... but I’m either gonna see that or Dead Pool 2 Me: Oh okay, but Donald Glover is in that movie right? Co worker: Yeah! That’s Lando Me: pic.twitter.com/TKrgjIJxhl — ... (@xyzvti) May 27, 2018 Xfinity didn't help at all as I slowly realized Donald Glover and Childish Gambino were the same person. Wait, he's also Lando Calrissian?! #SNL pic.twitter.com/vRSJ6L9w4c — Ray Devlin (@Ray_Devlin) May 6, 2018 Till rn I thought childish gambino & Donald Glover we’re the same person😂 — Jojo 🤘🏽 (@jay_lara_) May 26, 2018 Childish Gambino appeared on @nbcsnl, and my sister said she loved him. I asked her if she liked Donald Glover, and she said she didn’t know who he was 😬 #SNLFinale — Bruce Weiland III (@brucehweiland) May 20, 2018 I’m at work minding my business & my coworker asks me if I know Donald Glover. I said yes & he proceeds to ask doesn’t he look like Childish Gambino. I thought he was kidding, but he really didn’t know they were the same person lmao — AmBae (@__AMBERcrombie) May 23, 2018 So, whether you know him as Lando from “Solo: A Star Wars Story” or as his rap alter ego in “This Is America,” he’s still just one singular dude.
Mangalore, KARNATAKA — In the days leading up to the Assembly election, posters barring Congress party leaders from entering "Hindu" houses have been making news in the deeply communalised belt of Karnataka. There is, however, one house in Mangalore that has gone against the grain by plastering a large poster that bars Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from entry, and its owners are not Muslim. They are, in fact, Goud Saraswat Brahmins (GSB), who, like most of the community, have always voted for the BJP. For the Baliga family, it has taken the grisly murder of a loved one to question their lifelong beliefs and prejudices. Breaking with the traditional voting pattern of the GSBs, they have decided to never vote for the BJP again. Instead, the family is supporting a Left party candidate who had reached out to them in their darkest hour. It doesn't matter to them that his chances of winning are slight. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube In a recent conversation, Anuradha Baliga, the younger sister of the slain BJP worker, Vinayak Baliga, said, "My brother worked all his life for the BJP but not a single party leader came to even offer their condolences. At first, we were not ready to fight for justice, but our courage built up when others joined our cause. It was the Dalits and people from the Left." "Now, we want to help them back," she said. My brother worked all his life for the BJP but not a single party leader came to even offer their condolences. Earlier this week, his four sisters watched as passersby took photos of the poster hanging on the gate of their house. It reads: "This is the house of those who support Vinayak Baliga who was cruelly butchered on the 21st of March, 2016. There is no entry for those who have murdered him and those who are supporting his murderers. None of them should come here and ask for votes." At the time of his death, Baliga, who was also a prominent Right to Information (RTI) activist, had been investigating the accounts and pushing for greater transparency in the administration of the Sri Venkataramana Temple, run by his own community in Mangalore. The 51-year-old had challenged the authority of the seer of the Kashi Math, who is followed by the GSBs. Baliga's family believes that his death is connected with his activism on these two fronts. Two years on and seven arrests later, the prime accused is out on bail and the case has still not gone to trial. Anuradha Baliga, 48, who is fighting to get justice for her brother, said, "The main accused is still seen with a man who is a BJP candidate in this election. How do you think that makes us feel?" she asked. Baliga was talking about prime accused Naresh Shenoy, who enjoyed a brief spell in the national spotlight after he launched the NaMo brigade, a support group for Narendra Modi formed ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha election. Shenoy was arrested after a three-month manhunt by the police and released on bail just a few months later. Last month, the Home Ministry of the BJP government at the Centre forwarded to the Congress government in Karnataka Anuradha's request for setting up a special team to investigate Shenoy as well as Vedvyas Kamath, a BJP official in Mangalore, who went into hiding after Baliga's murder. The BJP has fielded Kamath as its candidate for Mangalore South in the Assembly election. BJP President Amit Shah campaigned for Kamath earlier this week. Shenoy was spotted at the road show in Mangalore and outside the Mangalore City Corporation building where Kamath had filed his nomination papers in April. Declaring that no one in her family is going to vote for the BJP on May 12, Anuradha said, "If they are supporting criminals, and people who support criminals, then what Ram Rajya will they create for the common man?" "In Ram Rajya, at the very least, people should feel safe when they walk on the road," she said. Anuradha, who was the first to see her brother after he was attacked by sword-wielding assailants outside his home, recalled that he was slumped against a wall and soaking in his own blood. "He received 16 blows from the sword. His helmet split in two at the very first blow," she said. The BJP is fielding the highest number of candidates (83) with criminal records in Karnataka followed by the Congress (59). If they are supporting criminals, and people who support criminals, then what Ram Rajya will they create for the common man. Betwa Sharma/HuffPost India The Vinayak Baliga poster at the Baliga home in Mangalore in May, 2018. Question for Amit Shah After being schooled in the shakhas of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Baliga had spent his adult life serving the BJP. He was, however, no ordinary booth worker. Baliga had garnered quite a reputation for filing scores of RTI applications and using the courts to combat wrongdoing irrespective of caste and religious considerations. "He wanted things to run as per the law of the land. He could not tolerate injustice," said Anuradha. "He wanted the truth to come out." Anuradha recalled her brother telling his family about how the RTI process worked. "He used to tell us that if you pay just Rs.10 or 20, submit an application, they have to give you a reply within 30 days," she said. "He really believed in his party. He really believed in the system." This week, Anuradha took her fight to the BJP president Amit Shah, who visited Mangalore and campaigned for Kamath. In an open letter to Shah, she asked, "As the president of the BJP what steps will you take to help us?" Anuradha has pointed out that a central tenet of the BJP's election campaign had been the murder of its workers in coastal Karnataka, but no one from the party has talked about her brother. In fact, the BJP, in its list of 23 Hindu workers, allegedly slain by Muslim extremists, has incorrectly included at least three names. Still, its leaders continue to cite 23 deaths in campaign speeches. There has, however, been no mention of Baliga. As the president of the BJP what steps will you take to help us? At a women's gathering in Karnataka recently, Meenakshi Lekhi and Nalin Kumar Kateel, BJP's parliamentarians from New Delhi and Dakshina Kannada respectively, snubbed 46-year-old Harsha Baliga, when she raised questions about her brother's murder. "Meenakshi Lekhi just said that she didn't know about the matter and asked me to give it in writing," said Harsha, a government school teacher. "Nalin Kumar Kateel just walked off the stage." "I'm pretty sure that if I gave something in writing, they would just throw it in the dustbin," she said. The angriest that Anuradha felt was when her mother passed away 10 months after her brother was killed. "I remember my brother would come back from court and tell us what the judge had said, how he had argued, and my mother would ask him if he was safe," she said. "He would always say, 'Don't worry.'" "My mother cried every day after he died and then eventually she died from the grief," she said. I'm pretty sure that if I gave something in writing, they would just throw it in the dustbin. Vinayak Baliga's sisters at their home in Mangalore in May, 2018. A New World Baliga's murder transformed the lives of his two youngest sisters, Anuradha and Harsha, in more ways than one. Soon after their brother's murder and their mother's death, their father, once a beedi merchant, became bedridden. With the two elder sisters married and busy with their own families, it fell to the younger members to support the family. But for Anuradha, a technical engineer, and Harsha, a government school teacher, their new role as the breadwinners is not the biggest change in their lives. Harsha, for instance, had never imagined that she would accompany Muneer Katipalla, a Muslim man fielded by the Communist Part of India (Marxist), to file his nomination papers. "Things have changed for us. Earlier, when people used to take out rallies, we never bothered to know anything. Now, we have become aware of the problems of other people and we try to support their struggles," said Harsha. Anuradha added that the days when they hardly ever stepped out of the male-dominated household were a thing of the past. "We used to be very scared to go out," she said. "Now, we have become more daring, we have gained confidence to face the world." Laughing, she said, "We can even go out at 2 in the morning." While Harsha is handling matters related to Baliga's murder case, Anuradha is continuing with her brother's litigation for transparency in the administration and accounting of the Sri Venkataramana Temple. "Who will give us justice if we don't fight for it? What will be the point of all the work that my brother did if we don't speak up? We cannot let the work he did go to waste," she said. We have become aware of the problems of other people and we try to support their struggles. Also on HuffPost India:
Please enable Javascript to watch this video A Tesla that was in autopilot mode crashed into a Laguna Beach police patrol vehicle Tuesday morning, totaling the SUV and leaving the sedan's driver injured, an official said. The crash occurred along Laguna Canyon Road shortly after 11 a.m., according to Laguna Beach Police Department Sgt. Jim Cota. The officer was not in the police SUV at the time but handling a call for service about 1,000 yards away, Cota said. The Tesla driver, a 65-year-old man, sustained minor injuries, but declined transport to a hospital, the sergeant said. Photos from the scene showed the Tesla with front end damage. The police SUV had damage to the rear driver's side, the photos showed. "Thankfully there was not an officer at the time in the police car," Cota told the Los Angeles Times. "The police car is totaled." A Tesla on autopilot crashed into a semi-truck in the exact same area on April 10, 2017. Police are now looking into whether the location's topography, lane markings or other factors are creating a problem for the semi-autonomous technology, Cota told KTLA. “It’s something that we’re going to have to work on, whether it be with Tesla themselves, or we’re going to have to get into more specifics and find out why this is occurring,” he said. The same traffic investigator who responded to last year’s incident also responded to Tuesday's incident, Cota said. He added that the incidents involved different drivers. It is unclear what led up to the latest crash, but Tesla emphasizes that drivers are expected to remain engaged when using autopilot mode. The company said in a statement that “Tesla has always been clear that autopilot doesn’t make the car impervious to all accidents, and before a driver can use Autopilot, they must accept a dialogue box which states that ‘Autopilot is designed for use on highways that have a center divider and clear markings.’” Earlier this year, a Tesla driver was killed in a crash on Highway 101 in Mountain View that occurred while autopilot was engaged, but the company says the driver was to blame in that incident. This morning a Tesla sedan driving outbound Laguna Canyon Road in “autopilot” collides with a parked @LagunaBeachPD unit. Officer was not in the unit at the time of the crash and minor injuries were sustained to the Tesla driver. #lagunabeach #police #tesla pic.twitter.com/7sAs8VgVQ3 — Laguna Beach PD PIO (@LBPD_PIO_45) May 29, 2018 KTLA's Jennifer Thang contributed to this story. Please enable Javascript to watch this video 33.542719 -117.785357
Experts warn against screen time for kids, but many parents still use it, whether out of necessity or by choice. It might be something as small as letting your child play with a tablet while you shower and get ready in the morning, or larger like a full day of TV-time on the weekend. Some caregivers say the educational benefits of screen time for children outweigh any risks. Debbie Borba, a mother of two in Toronto, admits to turning on the television in the morning in order to get breakfast made and lunches packed for school. She also lets her kids watch TV while she prepares dinner. "I used to feel guilty when they were younger, but then I'd see how much they were learning and I wouldn't feel the guilt after that," Borba told HuffPost Canada. "Now that they're older I don't feel guilty because they're in school all day. The guilt that I would feel when they were younger was because of other moms who'd say they don't allow their child any or very little screen time." Screen time can be detrimental A recent report from the Canadian Pediatric Society, sponsored by TELUS Wise, advises parents not to give children under the age of two any screen time, and to limit the screen time of children aged two to five years to less than one hour per day. Their research found that heavy screen time can be detrimental to children's language use and acquisition, attention, cognitive development, and executive functions. "Parenting is all about caregivers setting guidelines, limits and expectations with their kids. Too much screen time takes away from quality family time and face-to-face interaction," Nimtaz Kanji, Director of TELUS Wise, an industry-leading educational program on Internet and smartphone safety, told HuffPost Canada. Borba says her family's Saturday night movie is about as much screen time as her children get on weekends. While both children have iPads, Borba says they rarely play with them. If they have an appointment or other outing, Borba and her kids play "I spy" or "would you rather" as a way to pass the time. "After school we play on the playground for a bit, and then when we get home we continue playing in the front yard until I have to make dinner," Borba said. "On weekends we barely watch TV. We fill our day with activities such as crafts, dance classes, and playing with toys." Coping strategies other than screen time are important Having these types of coping strategies beyond screens is important for both child and parent development, according to Dr. Michelle Ponti, Chair of the Canadian Paediatric Society's Digital Health Task Force. "It's so easy to whip out a phone or a tablet," she told HuffPost Canada, adding that parents need to learn how to redirect or distract their child when necessary, as well as being mindful of other environmental triggers that might be going on with the child. "If the parents aren't learning these skills, then the kids can't learn how to self-regulate without a device." Her advice to parents is to make a plan — with their child's input — about what screen time limits are best for your family. "It's certainly a lot easier to set limits earlier on, than it is to cut back later." Stick to a plan The plan should answer questions such as what devices are in the home, who gets to use what, what content will be allowed, how long a device can be used, and any restrictions. This might mean no screens at the dinner table, or no screens in the bedroom. "If you have a good plan and you stick by it, then screen time is absolutely a wonderful, valuable resource that we all can benefit from," Ponti said. "But if we're just mindlessly using it as a replacement for good parenting, or a replacement for learning other self-calming strategies or other activities, then it quickly snowballs." Ponti mentions that left unsupervised, children can very quickly access violent or sexual content. Kanji echoes those concerns, saying that if caregivers are present and engaged when kids are using screens, then they can prioritize quality programming and educational content, as well as helping children recognize and question advertising, stereotyping, and other problematic content. For many caregivers, however, screen time is what allows them to get through their to-do list and can't be supervised 100 per cent of the time. "Life is all about balance" Auntie of three Leanne Moran from Briston, Ont. says she has no problem using an electric babysitter with her two nieces and one nephew, depending on the time and circumstance. "We definitely don't do it all of the time," she told HuffPost Canada, "But when you need 10 minutes of being left alone or peace and quiet, there is nothing quite like that distraction." With more than one shift-worker in the home, Moran and her family use TV time when they are working the graveyard shift and there needs to be quiet for those sleeping during the day, and the weather is too poor to take the kids out. She also makes it a priority to have some snuggle time with her nieces and nephew if they choose to watch something together at the end of the day. And while Moran allows the kids to use her cell phone to play games during long car rides or if they have been extra good, the family has a strict 'no phone at the table' rule. This includes dining out, where she'll play games with the kids such as spelling or math questions rather than handing them a smartphone. "I know that it is frowned on by society as a whole to use electronic babysitters, and I too have an issue if a child is in front of it day in and day out, and not doing anything else," Moran said. "Life is all about balance. I see nothing wrong with rewarding someone's good behaviour with screen time, or to get those much-needed 10 minutes to do what needs to be done without children under foot." Moran adds that rather than judging parents who use screens with their kids, society needs more compassion and understanding for a situation that as an outsider we don't know about. Ponti says parents and caregivers should treat setting healthy screen time habits the same way as they do planning healthy, balanced meals for their children. "We don't let our kids eat Cocoa Puffs all day everyday," Ponti said. "But once in awhile as a treat, sure, why not?" "A healthy balanced approach to screens in our daily lives is great. And if that means using it as a babysitter while mom has a shower to get ready because she's off to work in the morning, I don't think there's anything wrong with that." Also on HuffPost:
A series of crimes attributed to misogyny, including the recent van attack in Toronto in which 10 people died, has raised concerns about toxic masculinity and the ways in which our societal norms around what it means to be a man can become dangerous. And if you have a young boy in your life, you know those norms are there to contend with from birth. Clothing marketed to even the smallest baby boys is full of gendered stereotypes, such as images and words that call them heroes, hunks or tough guys. And work by neuroscientist Lise Eliot has looked at the way we treat boy and girl babies differently even before they express their personalities, or even unconsciously change our own behaviour around children to fit established gender norms. "I think the thing we forget when we talk about gender and masculinity is that these are concepts that adults and parents actively teach our kids," Lanae St. John, a sexologist and a mother of two teen boys, told HuffPost Canada by email. "At worst, kids socialize — a polite word for bully, cajole, taunt, tease, etc. — each other to conform to certain behaviours contained within 'gender roles' because of what adults and others taught them," St. John said. Limiting your child's behaviour because they identify as a boy is just as damaging as doing the same to a girl, or to a child who identifies as someone else on the gender spectrum. "By limiting socially acceptable emotions in males, we are stunting their emotional growth and limiting their ability to have a full and engaged life," author Lisa Orban told HuffPost Canada by email. "We are setting them up for failure in relationships by not allowing them to connect with other human beings except in superficial ways, denying males close and supportive friendships, and leaving them unable to express themselves with loved ones." How can adults work against norms that are deeply ingrained not just in our own minds, but in the society we all live in? There are ways to do it — and that work matters because it all has the end goal of helping young boys be more comfortable with who they really are, and who the people around them really are. Look at yourself One of the best things we can do as adults is to work on ourselves first, St. John said. What do you think about when the topic of gender comes up? What does it mean to you to "be a man"? What messages did we learn ourselves growing up? Think about what your reactions are like, and work on those, she said. That will help you do the same with the boys in your life. There are resources out there to help you do that, including the books Boys: What It Means to Become a Man by Rachel Giese and Gender: Your Guide by Lee Airton. Pay attention to words A lot of the societal norms around gender, including masculinity, are reinforced in the way we talk — including how we talk about how we feel. Not giving our emotions gender assignments is a good place to start in broadening the scope of what masculinity looks like for boys, Orban said. Think of phrases like, "Man up" or "Don't be a pussy" or "Big boys don't cry." "We all know real men do cry, it's healthy to cry, and repressing our emotions can have lifelong emotional, and even physical, tolls on our bodies," she said. "Instead, we should be encouraging a healthy acknowledgment of feelings and ways to cope with them when they become overwhelming, the same way we do with girls." Let them ask questions Make sure the boys in your life are able to ask you questions about masculinity and gender without ridicule or criticism, counsellor GinaMarie Guarino told HuffPost Canada by email. "Children have many questions, and when they feel they cannot ask the questions, they reject the idea to challenge norms," Guarino said. "Being able to talk about their thoughts and feelings are a great way to help a child unlearn the traditional definition of masculinity." Remember that a lot of this is new "I guess I have lots of questions and not many answers because this is new terrain," St. John said. Gender is one of the foundations upon which we build our sense of self, she said, and it can make people uncomfortable to see that shift. Take the time to learn and be open to the fact that norms, advice, and best practices around this may change — just as your own child's needs and beliefs about gender and masculinity also could. Let people be who they are "One of the best things you can do to break down the stigma and expectations that come with traditional masculinity is to teach unconditional tolerance," Guarino said. Teach children to celebrate differences instead of seeing them as a source of threat or confusion, she said, and it will be more natural for them to broaden their definition of masculinity — or femininity, or anything else. Also on HuffPost:
(CNN) At first, no one believed them when they said the charming, well-liked aide in the nursing home where they lived had raped them. Claims like theirs are often dismissed as drug-induced hallucinations, signs of dementia or attempts by lonely residents to get attention. And even when the cases of nursing home residents get to court, they can fall apart when victims' memories prove unreliable -- or they are no longer alive to testify. This time was different. The two women made their way to the courthouse in Waynesville, North Carolina, last week to testify against the man entrusted with their care. One entered the courtroom in her wheelchair, two oxygen tanks behind her, and defiantly described the February night when 58-year-old Luis Gomez lifted up her nightgown. He had entered her room at the Brian Center, a nursing home in the center of town, when she was alone and asked if she needed to go the bathroom. She said she did, and climbed out of bed. As she entered the bathroom and faced the toilet, she heard the door close and lock. Then, she said, Gomez raped her. At first, no one acted on her accusation, and she feared Gomez might appear in her room again at any moment. But when a nurse insisted on notifying police -- against the wishes of her boss -- the call triggered an investigation. And women just down the hall from the resident came forward, with their own allegations against Gomez. Now he has been sentenced to at least 23 years behind bars. "What this man has done for a period of almost a decade is ... prey on Alzheimer's patients because they're forgetful and they can't remember and oftentimes they die," the prosecutor told the judge during sentencing. "In 2016, Your Honor, he made the grave mistake of hurting the wrong woman. She was brave enough to tell, and she wouldn't be quiet until everybody listened. And because of her, that's the only reason that we are finally able to put him in prison." After a weeklong trial, Gomez was found guilty of raping both women who testified against him -- convicted on six counts that included forcible rape with a physically helpless victim. He still maintains his innocence, and is appealing the verdict. What should we investigate next? Email Blake Ellis and Melanie Hicken At his sentencing, the prosecutor said the two women who testified against him were not his only victims. Six others have accused him, she said. At three different facilities in the area. Some were in their 50s and 60s. At least one was nearly 90. None were believed, until the woman who was raped in her nightgown came forward. Gomez's attorney told jurors they shouldn't believe her either. "He told me I'm untruthful, and I said, no I am not," the victim, now 55, said of the lawyer's questioning. "He made me feel like I was a worm crawling on the ground." CNN does not typically identify victims of sexual abuse. The weeklong trial of Luis Gomez took place at the Haywood County Courthouse in Waynesville. Gomez's attorney, Joel Schechet, told the court that his client is a "good man" who came to America after almost dying from an assault in Guatemala. "To this day, I would contend he never committed an act that was inappropriate to any of these people making these allegations," he said, adding that had the jury found him innocent,Gomez was prepared to leave the country and return home. The Brian Center paid a six-figure fine after regulators found it had failed to protect residents from sexual abuse. A spokesperson for its parent company said it was pleased the case was over and that it had been unaware of the multiple allegations against Gomez until the police investigation began. Months before the trial, a CNN investigation into sexual abuse at nursing homes had discovered many of these same accusations against Gomez at three different nursing facilities in Haywood County. At least some had been reported to the state. But because investigators were unable to substantiate any of the complaints, Gomez's record remained clean and he continued work as a nursing aide. Asked whether the Gomez case would spur change, such as a way to track a pattern of unsubstantiated complaints against nursing home employees, the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services has said the agency is simply following federal and state laws. They refused to comment on just how many times Gomez was investigated in the past. But in court, the prosecutor ticked off each accusation, one by one: In 2011, years before Gomez worked at the Brian Center, a woman with severe Alzheimer's said he had touched her inappropriately while cleaning her up at another nursing home in town, prompting a law enforcement investigation. At first, she insisted it had happened. But then she said, "Well, maybe I'm confused." Two years later, a resident at yet another nursing home screamed when she awoke to Gomez touching her. She was living in the Alzheimer's wing, even though she didn't suffer from the condition. The following year, an Alzheimer's patient at the same facility reported that he had pressed her "down there." But she said she was "afraid" and didn't want to get him in trouble. She has since passed away. After that, the accusations started piling up at the Brian Center. Nursing aide Luis Gomez most recently lived in this house, according to property records. In 2015, a resident said Gomez touched her breasts and told her he wanted to marry her. Another woman, who'd suffered a stroke, told staff that Gomez molested her. She was promptly committed to the psychiatric unit of the local hospital. Within months, a different woman insisted Gomez had touched her while changing her diaper, but said that no one believed her. And yet another said she had silently endured weeks of sexual abuse that left her terrified. The woman who said he raped her in the bathroom was his eighth accuser. Before the judge sentenced Gomez, the victim asked to have a word with him. The sheriff wheeled her up to face him. Then she spoke. "The Lord loves you," she told her attacker. "Even though what you did is wrong, the Good Book says that I must love you, even though you did me wrong; and I do. I love you, and I pray that the others learn to forgive you and love you as I have. May you go in peace." Gomez sat silently and cried, she said. She returned to the Brian Center, where she says memories of her abuse still haunt her. The day of the verdict, she said, was the best day of her life. She was finally believed. "It felt like a ton of bricks were off my shoulders," said the woman, who suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and congestive heart failure. "I wanted to scream in the courtroom, 'Yeehaw!'" News of the verdict quickly made its way around town, reaching another woman who had accused Gomez of sexual abuse -- the stroke victim who had been sent to the psych ward. The stroke victim sent to the psychiatric ward after accusing Gomez of molesting her says his sentence is not enough. "I was glad that people did believe it, and something was done about it," she said, speaking on the phone from the facility where she lives now, many miles from the Brian Center. But she wasn't satisfied with the outcome. "What he did was a lot worse than what he's paying for." The nurse who supervised Gomez and defied her boss by triggering the police investigation said she, too, was also glad the victims were believed. Even if her life has been upended. She said she suffered panic attacks for months leading up to the trial. She was fired from the Brian Center days after notifying police, and she said she plans to sue the facility to make a statement: that nurses will not be forced to act unethically. "I couldn't live with myself if I did not make the call," said 36-year-old Krista Shalda. "I could not go to bed at night if I knew I was the reason someone was getting sexually assaulted." She doubts she will ever work in a nursing home again. Facilities are reluctant to hire a whistleblower, she said. She also knows that she wouldn't be able to stop herself from worrying about what could be happening behind closed doors.
As Italy’s far-right Lega and anti-establishment Five Star parties look to form their country’s next government, HuffPost Italia has obtained leaked documents that show the two parties are seeking better ties with Russia and plan to crack down on migration. In a draft contract that outlines Five Star and Lega’s shared policies, the parties state they want to immediately lift sanctions against the Kremlin that have been in place since Russia annexed the Crimean peninsula in 2014. The documents also include heavy criticism of the European Union’s response to migration and calls for a tougher line against migrants seeking asylum in Europe. Over 600,000 migrants have arrived in Italy in recent years, bringing the issue of immigration to the forefront and contributing to the rise of far-right leaders such as Lega’s Matteo Salvini. Italy has been in a period of political gridlock since its election in March left no clear winner. But in recent weeks the eurosceptic Five Star and Lega parties have moved closer to agreeing on a governing coalition, a deal that would give Italy one of the most populist governments in all of Europe. An earlier draft of the contract between the two parties, published by HuffPost Italia this week, caused widespread concern in Europe. The document showed that the parties wanted to take a combative stance toward the EU, and even stated that they would look to find ways that the country could potentially opt-out of the eurozone. The Milan stock market fell after the news and investors dropped Italian assets amid fears of political and economic instability. The latest document waters down many of the more extreme policies, however, including mention of asking the European Central Bank to cancel nearly $300 billion in debt and talk of leaving the euro currency. Even with a more moderate attitude toward the EU, the parties are expected to attempt radical domestic changes after promising to eliminate pension cuts and boost the welfare state. Economists worry that such goals are unrealistic given that Italy is deeply in debt ― making up 132 percent of its GDP. Five Star and Lega are expected to announce a finalized deal in the coming days, ending months of negotiations and ushering in an uncertain new era for Italy.
Rudy Giuliani says he wasn’t at all troubled by the thunderous boos he was showered with at Yankee Stadium on his birthday — because, according to him, the crowd’s reaction was a show of “love.” “No, no, I know Yankee fans,” the former New York City mayor told a TMZ Sports reporter on Wednesday when asked whether he was “upset” by the reception he received. “They boo you when they love you.” Rudy Giuliani's feelings aren't hurt after getting BOOED ON HIS B-DAY ... that's how New Yorkers show their 💗💓 pic.twitter.com/6oMHbxRD9I — TMZ (@TMZ) May 30, 2018 Giuliani, an attorney for President Donald Trump, had been watching a game between the New York Yankees and the Houston Astros on Memorial Day when the PA announcer noted his presence at the stadium and wished him a happy birthday. The ensuing boos were deafening. Giuliani may well have been joking in his recent comment about Yankee fans. But if not, there’s someone who wants to clear something up: Boo, by definition, is an interjection that is used to express contempt or to startle or frighten. E.g. Rudy Giuliani says Yankees fans boo when they love you. https://t.co/pdMbepzMrO https://t.co/vN9PZlgooh — Dictionary.com (@Dictionarycom) May 30, 2018
Gigi Hadid and Conde Nast have both issued apologies for the model’s May cover of Vogue Italia. The cover, which was shot by famed fashion photographer Steven Klein and also included male model Justin Martin, came under fire for its extremely bronzed depiction of Hadid. Some outlets and commenters likened the cover to “blackface” and decried what appeared to be a liberal use of photo manipulation on Hadid’s face. Conde Nast International issued a statement about the backlash to the cover on Thursday. “Throughout its history, Vogue Italia has respected and encouraged the creative viewpoints of commissioned photographers. In our latest cover shoot by Steven Klein, the vision was to create a beachwear-themed story with a stylized bronzing effect,” the statement, shared by Teen Vogue, said. “We understand that the result has caused some debate with our readers, and we sincerely apologize if we have caused any offence.” A post shared by Steven Klein (@stevenkleinstudio) on May 2, 2018 at 4:40pm PDT Hadid also issued an apology on Thursday and provided a picture that she said showed “the level I had been bronzed to on set that day.” The model insisted she had no control over the shoot but wanted “to address this for those who were offended by the editing/retouching/coloring of the cover.” “Please understand that my control of a shoot 1. is non existent in terms of creative direction 2. ends completely when I leave set, and anything done to a photo in post is out of my control fully,” she said. “The bronzing and photoshop is a style that S. Klein has done for many years and I believe was what was expected from the shoot (to show me in a different way creatively), BUT, although I understand what Vogue Italia’s intentions were, it was not executed correctly, and the concerns that have been brought up are valid.” Hadid apologized for the misstep and added that she hoped the mistake could be used as a “lesson” for those in the fashion industry. “I want to apologize because my intention is never to diminish those concerns or take opportunities away from anyone else, and I hope this can be an example to other magazines and teams in the future,” she said. “There are real issues regarding representation in fashion ― it’s our responsibility to acknowledge those issues and communicate through them to work towards a more diverse industry.” The 23-year-old also removed the picture of the cover from her Instagram page, which she’d previously captioned “Excited, honored, and grateful to cover @VogueItalia’s May Issue. Thank you so so much for an amazing shoot, I am forever inspired by you all !!! & can’t wait to share the full story !!” The photo is still up on Klein’s Instagram page as well as Vogue Italia’s. Comments on the two Instagram pages are riddled with criticisms of Photoshop use and “blackface.” “You need to stop ‘bronzing’ these models to make them look like they have a different skin color! Why not just use models who have darker skin tones or just use any model but don’t frickin’ photoshop them to make them look a different race,” one commenter wrote on Klein’s page. Another added, “For the time you’ve been on Earth, I thought you’d knew the effects of blackface and racism, but I guess we’re gonna have to walk you through it once more, huh?” The commenters on Vogue Italia’s page were just as outraged. “That ain’t gigi,” one person wrote, while another said, “No if they wanted a darker woman or of a different ethnicity, then they should do that not photoshop and bronze the fuck out of her.” Hadid came under fire for a Vogue Italia cover once before in 2015, when a very-bronzed Gigi was photographed wearing a variety of colorful Afros. A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) on Nov 6, 2015 at 8:33am PST
Hamdullah Mohib (@hmohib) is Afghanistan's ambassador to the United States. The views expressed here are solely his. (CNN) Hidayatullah Zaheer, known as Zee to his many friends, was killed earlier this month in my hometown of Jalalabad, Afghanistan, during a terror attack on a cricket match that he organized to celebrate peace and unity during the holy month of Ramadan. The attack killed eight people and wounded 45 others, including a small child. Hamdullah Mohib Zee, only 32, was a grassroots activist known for his courage, perseverance, and ability to bring diverse groups of people together, and to give voice to the most marginalized, including women and young people. He mobilized peaceful initiatives in his region against dangerous forces -- predatory power brokers, corrupt officials, and terrorists including ISIS -- that benefit from and perpetuate the violence in Afghanistan. We lose precious lives in our country every day to the war and senseless terror against the Afghan people. Zee was one of thousands making important contributions to our country who made the ultimate sacrifice. But there is reason to be hopeful. We have not lost their spirit, their values and principles, and their sense of mission. The younger generation is taking the responsibility of picking up and carrying the torch of the fallen. We will persist until we achieve the peace we deserve. Over the last several years, Zee dedicated his life to leading the Watan Pala Zwanan community, a network of youth, activists, and leaders from communities across eastern Afghanistan with a mission to serve the most marginalized communities, including refugees. The organization provides them not only humanitarian assistance but also opportunities to come together against the extremist forces seeking to divide them. From organizing poetry festivals and cricket matches to setting up computer labs and creating safe spaces for women to gather in conservative areas, everything Zee did was with the belief that unity would steer his country into a better future. Read More
New Delhi (CNN) Pre-monsoon thunderstorms and lightning strikes have killed 48 people since Monday in northern India. Sixteen died in the state of Uttar Pradesh. "The causes of death were lightning, falling of walls and trees. There's no cause for alarm at the moment as injured people are being taken care of. The families of the people who passed away due to the storm have been compensated with 400,000 rupees ($5,899) per death," TP Gupta, project manager at the state's Relief Commissioner's Office, told CNN. He added that storms have caused 200 deaths across April and May. Advisories have been issued in a bid to keep residents safe, especially those in rural areas who are most affected. Workshops have also been held to share safety tips. Read More
Melissa Blake is a freelance writer and blogger from Illinois. She covers disability rights and women's issues and has written for The New York Times, Cosmopolitan, Good Housekeeping, Glamour and Racked, among others. Read her blog , So About What I Said, and follow her on Twitter . The views expressed in this commentary are solely hers. (CNN) The next time you report a Twitter troll for polluting your timeline, you might notice an additional word on the reporting form. Disability. It's just one word. One we've seen thousands of times before. In fact, if you weren't looking closely at the form in the frenetic moments of reporting a tweet, you might not even notice it. But make no mistake: This change is no small feat. It's a long overdue win in what seemed like a never-ending battle, one that people with disabilities like myself have been fighting online for years. Thankfully, Twitter joined that fight earlier this month when it revised its reporting form to include hate directed at people with disabilities. "It's against our rules to directly attack or threaten someone based on their protected category, including disability," Twitter said in a tweet posted April 2. "You asked us to clarify this in our reporting flow, and we've updated it to be more specific." The change is thanks to Natalie Weaver , who called on Twitter to revise its reporting form after her daughter's photo was used in an offensive tweet promoting eugenics. Her daughter, Sophia, has Rett syndrome, a genetic brain disorder that affects such things as language, walking and coordination. At first, Weaver told the website The Mighty, Twitter refused to take down the tweet, but eventually changed course, removing the offending account entirely. JUST WATCHED Living with an 'army' of hate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Living with an 'army' of hate 04:52 The message rang loud and clear: This sort of hateful, ableist content will not be tolerated; in fact, it has no place on the social media platform. As Weaver told The Mighty : "Many people with medical conditions and/or disabilities receive hate and harassment every day on Twitter and no violations are found. I am hopeful that this change will create a safer environment for people with medical conditions and disabilities." I've been on the receiving end of this damaging and destructive hate speech for years. I was born with Freeman-Sheldon syndrome, a rare genetic bone and muscular disorder; it affects everything from my joints to my physical appearance. I've been called ugly, a monster, compared to a blob (picture of said blob included next to my profile picture) and in one particular tweet, which was the most stinging of all, one user suggested I was a "thing" and should be euthanized. The only user to get the ban hammer? The one who said I should be euthanized. All the other accounts, Twitter told me, didn't violate the Twitter rules. I'm an accomplished freelance writer and blogger. But online, and especially on Twitter, I'm reduced to an object -- literally, a thing to be mocked, ridiculed and shamed. My physical appearance is what those Twitter trolls pounce on. Immediately. JUST WATCHED Professors on watch lists get death threats Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Professors on watch lists get death threats 05:07 Maybe they can sense that I've struggled with self-confidence surrounding my disability in the past? Maybe they figure it took me a while to come to terms with my disability (spoiler alert: It did)? Maybe they just know where to hit me to make it hurt just a little bit more? Or maybe they're just sad, pathetic people unhappy with themselves and their own life? I've asked myself these questions a lot, and, honestly, I'm not sure of the answers. But here's what I do know: All too often, people with disabilities are overlooked when it comes to these kinds of conversations about hate speech online. When we think of hate speech and what sorts of things constitute hate speech, we automatically think of racism and LGBTQ issues. What we don't automatically think of are things like ableism and discrimination against people with disabilities, which are rampant in society, to be sure, but sometimes get overlooked. Consider the flippant use of the "R" word -- and even a seemingly less offensive word like "cripple." Even Disney villains usually have some sort of facial deformity, which sends the message to children from a young age that disabilities are bad and that people with disabilities are evil or monstrous. Thankfully, though, society's views about people with disabilities are changing, as evidenced not only by Twitter's change in policy, but also by Apple's plans to add 13 new disability-related emojis to its lineup. Everything from a cane to a hearing aid to a person zooming along in a wheelchair is just a starting point, Apple hinted recently , saying, "Currently, emoji provide a wide range of options, but may not represent the experiences of those with disabilities." Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Disabilities may make people uncomfortable. I'm sure my disability and my wheelchair has made people uncomfortable in the past. But that doesn't give people the right to use it against me and vilify me for it. Twitter's change in policy gives me hope. Hope that perhaps, finally, we've moved the needle of dismantling centuries of negative misconceptions surrounding people with disabilities. We're not monsters. We're people. And we're not going anywhere -- on Twitter and in real life.
The former president on climate change, curiosity, and what it means to be a leader The office where I met Clinton high in the UN headquarters building belongs to another era. It is an institution built for a world of the past -- one based on Cold War rivalries and the last century's balance of power. It was Clinton's first day in the cramped space, and his entourage of bodyguards and assistants were stumbling over one another in the confines. The Secret Service men dispatched a young press aide to inquire why so many UN staffers were loitering near the elevators, though it was clear that they were simply trying to catch a glimpse of the ex-president. "Is this the office?" an exhausted Clinton asked after shaking my hand. I nodded, as did most of the swarm that followed him. The entire place felt as if it hadn't been touched since the early fifties when the building was raised, a lone skyscraper above an otherwise flat block on the East Side of Manhattan. I heard him chuckle to a staffer as he stepped inside, "You know what," -- 'wahut,' the final word came out -- "It kinda reminds me of Mad Men. Have you seen that show yet?" William Jefferson Blythe III never met his father, a traveling salesman who died in a car accident three months before Bill was born. He took the name Clinton from his hard-drinking and abusive stepfather, Roger, who Bill, at fourteen, demanded never hit his mother again. He hid the abuse from most people in his life. As a junior at Georgetown University, though, he shuttled back and forth to Durham, North Carolina on weekends to make peace with his dying stepfather as he underwent cancer treatments. Clinton almost never drinks; he sleeps little and speaks without reprieve. On the day that we met, the topics of his endless seminar ranged from the evolution of the light bulb to early twentieth-century American film to the beauty of Columbia's Aburrá Valley and Medellín. Perhaps the most interesting dimension of his character is the pace with which he lives. "He had said to everybody over and over and over again," Chelsea Clinton has said, "that none of the men in his family live past sixty, or much past." As a result, he has always moved at a rather reckless pace, trying to accomplish as much as possible before a short clock -- either real, imagined, or prophetically self-fulfilling -- ticks to a stop. As members of my generation look around the world today, we see climate change on the rise and nothing in the way of a successor for the Kyoto Protocol, the proliferation of nuclear weapons still un abated, Millennium Development Goals we're still well short of, a hugely imbalanced global economy that will continue to undermine itself, and I wonder if you worry that you and this post-Cold War generation of leaders will be judged harshly by history? No. I think that's a cheap trick. I mean, all of this "the greatest generation is World War II?" -- it just happens that they're the most horrible parents in human history, right? If all of us baby boomers were so bad, then our parents were terrible; they failed. And if we were so bad, how come our kids are so great? We were hellaciously good parents. I think it's phony as a $3 bill. I think they had a chance to win World War II and it was clear. These are much more complex things [now]. We have no idea if the World War II generation would have made the decisions they should make on climate change if they thought doing so would bring an end to their economic prosperity. The real problem in climate change is that we're paying for our past success. The established order has too many self-protecting economic entities, and not enough people who yet understand what it takes to change. The World War II generation was thrown into a war by a madman, Hitler, and an expansionist empire in Japan, and we did what we had to do. Look, I admire the World War II generation; I'm just trying to make a point here. I don't think there are defective generations. There are times and struggles and they present different challenges. I believe the United States will pass reasonably good climate change legislation, I believe we will get a successor that will be better than Kyoto, and I think that we're in a race against time and circumstance. This will be calamitous if we don't do something about it, and the population of the earth will drop hugely over the next 1,000 years, maybe over the next 200 years, if we don't do something about it. We're really in a race against time. I think history is a relay race and you just got to keep handing off and making things happen. I'm basically pretty optimistic. Where the intersection of science and politics is on climate change, I'd leave to others. We might lose. Our minds may not be able to expand enough collectively to avert the worst. I think most people are more literal and they learn things in a serial fashion. Most people have all they can do to keep body and soul together -- even before this economic collapse -- raise their kids, pay their taxes, worry about how to pay for college, deal with their mother's health, and everything. It just takes time to change the mindset, but we're a much more communitarian country and a much more communitarian world than we were 20 years ago. I basically think you've got to get people's attitudes right, and then they have to have a general analysis that's right, and you have to organize for action. And you just have to stumble in the right direction. I'm pretty upbeat about it. When you're my age, I hope you're dealing with a different set of problems. There'll always be problems, but that's what I hope will happen David Leopolus, a childhood friend of yours, used to joke with friends that if they were bored, they could always go and watch you read. Is that insatiable curiosity critical to being a good leader? I think in order to do one or two big things, you have to know many little things. I think it's also important in a complex time with a lot of dynamism to be able to relate to all different kinds of people, because, in the end, most political power depends more on persuasion rather than coercion. And then I think you have to be able to reconcile the complexities and order them in a pattern. For a lot of people who just follow the evening news or read the morning paper, it's like the political equivalent of chaos theory in physics. But your job, if you're a leader, is to take superficially random events and organize them into patterns that tell you what you should do to maximize an opportunity or head off the problem. Being decisive in the face of complexity and ambiguity is important. Being able to make a call, to decide to act, and then figuring out how to act to support that decision. Yes, be curious; yes, appreciate the complexity and ambiguity; but then organize into patterns and decide what you're going to do and execute. I think that's extremely important. You know, Machiavelli said in the 15th century that change was hard because the people who would benefit from it were uncertain of their gain and the people who would lose were positive of their loss; that's pretty much the way it still is. And if you sign on to be a progressive change agent, you had to have a high threshold for pain and you keep throwing yourself under the bridge, but I believe you can really make a difference if you just make these efforts and get up and work at it every day. I left the White House more optimistic than I entered it, after all I went through, and I would wake up every day believing that you can make good things happen. This post was adapted from Brian Till's new book, Conversations with Power: What Great Presidents and Prime Ministers Can Teach Us about Leadership. Well, I think that insatiable curiosity is important in a time dominated by complexity and dynamism, because you have so many things you need to understand. For the last 20 years, insatiable curiosity has been really important.I think in order to do one or two big things, you have to know many little things. I think it's also important in a complex time with a lot of dynamism to be able to relate to all different kinds of people, because, in the end, most political power depends more on persuasion rather than coercion.And then I think you have to be able to reconcile the complexities and order them in a pattern. For a lot of people who just follow the evening news or read the morning paper, it's like the political equivalent of chaos theory in physics.But your job, if you're a leader, is to take superficially random events and organize them into patterns that tell you what you should do to maximize an opportunity or head off the problem.Being decisive in the face of complexity and ambiguity is important. Being able to make a call, to decide to act, and then figuring out how to act to support that decision. Yes, be curious; yes, appreciate the complexity and ambiguity; but then organize into patterns and decide what you're going to do and execute. I think that's extremely important.You know, Machiavelli said in the 15th century that change was hard because the people who would benefit from it were uncertain of their gain and the people who would lose were positive of their loss; that's pretty much the way it still is. And if you sign on to be a progressive change agent, you had to have a high threshold for pain and you keep throwing yourself under the bridge, but I believe you can really make a difference if you just make these efforts and get up and work at it every day. I left the White House more optimistic than I entered it, after all I went through, and I would wake up every day believing that you can make good things happen.This post was adapted from Brian Till's new book, In the 2008 presidential election, Clinton was cast as a villain, an overbearing spouse allegedly eliciting racism1 to propel his ambitious wife forward to the presidency and, conceivably, to reclaim a good deal of power himself. The Democratic presidential primary of 2008 muddled the esteem that had ballooned during eight years of gaffes and incompetence by his successor in the Oval Office. During that span, Clinton largely redefined the post- presidential years; he circled the globe as a nimble, intrepid freelancer, leveraging charisma and a seemingly limitless Rolodex for both the broader good and personal gain."Clinton is a nonprofit conglomerate," says one former advisor and long-time friend. It's not an in- accurate characterization. His work fittingly mirrors the rise of social networking and the Internet, a two-point-zero version of previous post-presidential benevolence.Among his most important accomplishments is his success drastically reducing the cost of life-saving anti-retro viral treatment for AIDS victims around the world. The latest round of deals with pharmaceutical companies -- on the heels of others that have helped two million people access treatment -- drops the cost of second-line regiments, for those whose illnesses have overcome first line drugs, by 60 percent. Commitments to charitable work made each year by individuals and corporations attending the Clinton Global Initiative conference reach into the billions of dollars. He launched a ten-year $100 million campaign against extreme poverty in Rwanda and Malawi and, in 2005, raised over a $120 million following Hurricane Katrina with George H. W. Bush.As president, his achievements were matched by equally notable shortfalls. He presided over a massive expansion of economic growth, generating surpluses of $122 billion and $230 billion during his last two years in office; he waged a successful campaign to stem genocide in Kosovo, and greatly expanded free trade and global commerce. But his failure to intervene in Rwanda, where some 800,000 were massacred, or to move effectively to stop genocide in Bosnia, or to advance middle east peace, marked high-profile failures. Domestically, he was unable to pass comprehensive health care reform and ambitious campaign finance reforms. He signed the repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act in 1999, which had raised a wall between the speculative trading and underwriting of investment banks and the more traditional lending of commercial, depository banks. The law had been in place since the 1930s. Its elimination helped inflate the massive bubble that burst in the 2007 financial collapse, and meant commercial institutions, like Bank of America and Citibank, were allowed to assume massive risk in the form of housing market credit derivatives. They, of course, had to be bailed out to protect the broader economy. "I think they were wrong," he told ABC in April 2010, referring to his economics advisors, "and I think I was wrong to take [their advice]." The Monica Lewinsky scandal and a myriad of other sex-related allegations forever scarred his legacy and remains the first thought for many when his name is invoked.But for most of those who've had the chance to interact with Clinton, his warmth and intelligence overpower the more lurid details that special prosecutor Ken Starr seared into the American conscience. Clinton is surprisingly tender in person, a gentle handshake matches the soft white hair and the unmistakable bulb nose.He has been called the Michael Jordan of politics, an apt comparison in terms of both talent and intensity. Stan Greenberg, who worked as a consultant for both of Clinton's bids for the White House, recalled Clinton's rage at a Ross Perot attack in the closing days of the 1992 campaign: "They are attacking my character and we must attack Perot's character." He went on, speaking over the phone with aides after a long day of campaigning, "We need to take a meat axe to his brain, cut his head open." He demanded a response that was "red meat and passion, no more pussy ads."
Seoul (CNN) One of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's top officials arrived at Beijing airport on Wednesday on his way to the United States where he is expected to help lay the groundwork for on-again, off-again talks between Kim and US President Donald Trump in Singapore on June 12. Trump himself confirmed the news of Kim Yong Chol's trip to the US early Tuesday, tweeting: "We have put a great team together for our talks with North Korea. Meetings are currently taking place concerning Summit, and more. Kim Young Chol, the Vice Chairman of North Korea, heading now to New York. Solid response to my letter, thank you!" Top North Korean official Kim Yong Chol (far left) arrives at Beijing International Airport on Wednesday afternoon, local time. Kim will meet Secretary of State Mike Pompeo later this week, according to White House press secretary Sarah Sanders. Once he touches down on American soil, Kim would be the most senior official to visit the United States since 2000, when Vice Marshal Jo Myong Rok traveled to Washington to meet with former US President Bill Clinton in the Oval Office. Then-US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright traveled to North Korea later that month. His trip comes as the United States and North Korea attempt to revive the summit, a potential diplomatic triumph for two countries technically still at war. Kim Yong Chol (left) is expected to board a flight from Beijing to New York for talks with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Read More
New York (CNN) After 27 hours of surgery, twin boys Anias and Jadon McDonald -- born joined at the head 13 months ago -- began a new life apart on Friday. The round-the-clock operation at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx began Thursday morning and ended Friday. The separation procedure itself lasted 16 hours, followed by more hours of surgery to rebuild their skulls and make them whole. Jadon was the first of the boys to be finished. He was wheeled out of the operating room around 7:40 a.m. on a stretcher, his perfectly shaped head wrapped in white gauze. He was taken on an elevator to the pediatric intensive care unit on the 10th floor, where he was reunited with his parents, Nicole and Christian McDonald. "My boy," Christian said with tears in his eyes. Nicole bent over in tears. More than five hours later, around 1 p.m., surgeons finished operating on Anias, and he was brought to the 10th floor unit -- where the family was finally reunited. Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Anias, left, and Jadon McDonald were born conjoined at the head, something only seen in 1 out of every 2.5 million live births. They were separated in a 27-hour surgery at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center in New York in October. Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Nicole and Christian McDonald talk with Dr. Sanjay Gupta in the family waiting area on October 13 as a team worked to separate Jadon and Anias. "When we sent them off this morning, to me, I felt at peace with it and just ready to handle what comes after," Nicole said. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Dr. James Goodrich Goodrich, left, leads a surgical team as they prepared to separate the twins. "Failure is not an option," Goodrich told the team as they got started. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart The twins' surgery was Goodrich's longest craniopagus surgery. It's meticulous, tricky and complex: A single cut too deep can lead to catastrophic bleeding. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Goodrich's team worked more than 16 hours just to separate the boys, and each continued surgery individually afterward. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Newly separated twins Anias, left, and Jadon in surgery at the hospital. Goodrich informed the family of the successful separation at about 3 a.m. October 14. "Well, we did it," he told them. When it was official, the room burst into spontaneous applause. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Jadon recovers in the pediatric intensive care unit shortly after the surgery. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Anias returns to his room after his head dressing was changed. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Jadon stretches his arms in his room within the hospital's pediatric intensive care unit. Anias rests in a nearby bed in the same room. Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Anias, left, stares at Jadon for the first time since the surgery that separated them. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Nicole McDonald, right, and her mother, Chris Grosso, with Anias in mid-November. Anias had to have his skull cap removed due to infection, but doctors say they are still pleased with his recovery. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Anias, left, and Jadon lie in a red wagon at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center on December 13 as they prepare for the next stage of their journey, two months after their surgery. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart The family was headed to the hospital's banquet hall on December 13, where surgical and pediatric intensive care staff members were gathered for a farewell party. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Dr. Oren Tepper, the twins' lead plastic surgeon, holds a thank you gift from the McDonald family presented to him at the farewell party. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Nicole McDonald holds Anias as his twin brother, Jadon, sleeps in the bed to the left. The twins' older brother, Aza, watches television at the hospital from one of the boys' beds shortly before they left for rehab. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Jadon, left, and Anias McDonald look up at hospital staff as they leave their room at Montefiore Children's Hospital in New York. Their older brother, Aza, proudly sits at the front of the wagon. It was mid-December and they were headed to rehab. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Nicole McDonald pushes a stroller with Anias as her husband Christian pushes Jadon down a hallway on June 14 at Blythedale Children's Hospital in Valhalla, New York, where the boys have been rehabilitating. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Anias plays with a toy while laying on a mat in his room at Blythedale Children's Hospital. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Jadon eats small snacks and drinks from a sippy cup on his own, major progress since he first moved to rehab. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Nicole McDonald plays with her son Anias as Christian McDonald holds Jadon on a playground outside Blythedale Children's Hospital. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Nicole McDonald holds Jadon while looking over discharge information on September 1, as they prepare to leave the rehab facility and head home as a family for the first time. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Nicole McDonald takes Anias into the family's new house for the first time with his older brother, Aza. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: Conjoined twins separated: New life, apart Christian McDonald holds his son Anias as Nicole McDonald checks on Jadon at home with the family dogs, Taz and Tyson. Hide Caption 24 of 24 The surgery was led by Dr. James Goodrich, considered the leading expert on what's known as craniopagus surgery. It marked the seventh and longest separation surgery performed by Goodrich -- and just the 59th craniopagus separation surgery in the world since 1952. Nicole and Christian had to make an excruciating decision, opting for the procedure even though it carried major risks, including the possibility of death or long-term brain damage for one or both boys. But not to operate also carried risks: 80% of twins joined at the head die of medical complications by age 2 if not separated, studies show. Goodrich informed the family of the separation around 3 a.m. "Well, we did it," Goodrich said. On her Facebook page , Nicole wrote: "TWO SEPARATE BABIES!!!...and yet I ache with the uncertainty of the future. I didn't cry until the surgeons left the room. I was barely able to even utter the words 'thank you' because of the pit that still sits heavy in my stomach. We are standing on the brink of a vast unknown. The next few months will be critical in terms of recovery and we will not know for sure how Anias and Jadon are recovering for many weeks." The moment capped an end to an agonizing wait for the boys' parents. The McDonalds and Montefiore hospital invited CNN to document this remarkable and rare journey of Jadon and Anias, allowing CNN exclusive access into the operating room throughout the procedure. Yet before Nicole and Christian learned their boys were now two individuals, Thursday was a day of high emotion and high stakes, of anxious parents and calm medical professionals. It was a day of uncharted territory and amazing, one-of-a-kind surgical activity. And amid it all were two infants -- beautiful boys with deep brown eyes and a shared swirl of hair at the top of their foreheads. They came into the world together, and became two individual boys overnight. The parents' worries extend beyond the surgery; they wonder what happens in recovery. 'I feel good' Dr. Goodrich stands in Operating Room Number 10. It's a drab off-white, and empty of people. Two operating tables sit in the middle of the room, abutted together. A 3D replica of the boys' heads sits between them. It's 6:52 a.m. The doctor began his day by skipping breakfast and enjoying a single cappuccino. It's been 12 years since he last separated twins conjoined at the head at Montefiore. That was his first ever craniopagus surgery, and he's learned much since then, performing five other separation surgeries around the world, including Syrian twins in Saudi Arabia earlier this year. Prior to the mid-1980s, it was accepted medical practice to sacrifice one child on the operating table to save the life of the other. Many times both babies died. If one child made it through surgery, he or she often suffered debilitating brain damage. Dr. James T. Goodrich in his office at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore. Goodrich has pioneered the field. He established the practice of performing the separation of craniopagus twins in several shorter stages, instead of one single operation lasting more than 50 hours. The McDonalds have had three previous operations, each resulting in progressively more separated brains. Today is the fourth and final stage. None of Goodrich's conjoined twins have died during the operation. His mantra: "Take it easy and slowly and carefully." His surgical cap embodies that philosophy: It's decorated with turtles. "Don't change what works," he says. "Ready to go." Within minutes, he and Dr. Oren Tepper -- the plastic surgeon charged with reconstructing the boys' skulls and stitching their heads back together -- go to the 10th floor to a corner room where Jadon and Anias are resting with their family. The doctors exchange pleasantries with Mom, Dad and other family members who crowd the room. Asked how he's feeling, Goodrich breaks out into a James Brown-like jig. "I feel good," he croons. At 7:12 a.m., the boys are wheeled out of the room. Their older brother, Aza, lies with the twins on the stretcher as they're taken down an elevator and through a phalanx of hallways toward the third floor operating room. "Open door," Aza says. It's time to say goodbye. Against his will, Aza is taken off the stretcher. "Babies, babies," he says, reaching toward his brothers. Mom and Dad kiss their boys bye. "We'll see our two boys later," Christian tells Nicole. Nicole scoops up Aza and cradles him. The three walk away. The twins go straight into the OR. It's 7:18 a.m. Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated Anias and Jadon McDonald were born conjoined at the head on September 9, 2015, via an unscheduled C-section. "They were normal little boys, like any other two little babies you would see," said their father Christian McDonald, "except for being conjoined." Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated "Don't worry," Nicole McDonald said to her husband when she told him about being pregnant with conjoined twins. "We'll figure it out." Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated "I can't wait to see them as two separate little boys," said Christian. "That's what excites me the most. I really just want to know my boys." Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated The parents describe Jadon, left, as the rambunctious one, and Anias as the contemplative one who loves listening to his mom read. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated When the boys were younger they could be transported in a kid's wagon, seen here when they were three months old at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated Anias stares into the camera. His gaze is so captivating, his mother says, "it's like he looks at your soul ... He's just a silent warrior. He's sweet and strong." Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated Nicole and Christian McDonald at their home in the Bronx. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated The boys also have a 3-year-old brother, Aza. He's grown more quiet in recent weeks ahead of the twins' surgery. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated The boys share 1.5 to 2 inches in diameter of brain tissue. The surgery to separate them could take as long as 20 hours. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated Only one out of every 2.5 million live births results in twins conjoined at the head. But 80% of them die of medical complications by the age of 2 if not separated. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated Dr. James Goodrich, here with Nicole and the boys, is the most experienced craniopagus neurosurgeon in the world. Separating Anias and Jadon will mark his seventh separation surgery. He's consulted on 13 other conjoined twins. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated New 3D imaging and mapping has made this surgery unique and allows the surgical team to see exactly what to expect when they make the first incision. "There's no more guessing," said Goodrich. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Conjoined twins at the head prepare to be separated Christian and Nicole pose on the bed with their twins. Anias is on the left, while Jadon is facing his father. Hide Caption 13 of 13 'Failure is not an option' In a waiting area off the operating room, Goodrich and Tepper huddle with neuroradiologist Joaquim Farinhas. Farinhas shows off a three-dimensional replica of the boys' brain vessels that can be pulled apart, revealing exactly how they are fused together. The boys share about an inch-and-a-half diameter of brain tissue. "This is what I wanted you to see," Farinhas says, "which is something that is soft and you can actually poke in and cut through." Goodrich studies it for a bit before saying, "Ready to rock 'n' roll." "Absolutely," Farinhas says. "Failure is not an option," Goodrich replies. It's 7:22 a.m. For the next two hours, the boys are prepped for surgery. The place is a hub of activity, but of steely calm. The boys drift to sleep under anesthesia. At 9:27 a.m., plastic sheets are placed over their naked bodies, followed by blue surgical drapes. Moments later, their heads are wiped clean and Tepper takes a black marker and outlines incisions from the three previous surgeries. At 9:36 a.m., neurosurgery nurses Bindu Peter and Treshia Alex conduct what is known as a "timeout" -- a required protocol before surgeries. They name both patients on the tables and the operations taking place this day, October 13, 2016. "We are doing craniopagus separation, fasciocutaneous scalp flaps, removal of expander, cranioplasty with bone graft, possible skin graft or use skin substitute, adjacent tissue transfer scalp, possible insertion of tissue expanders, possible insertion of wound closure device," Peter says. "Correct." More than 20 people in the room -- surgeons, doctors, nurses, staff -- say their names and titles. "How long will the case take?" says Peter. Goodrich: "Long." "Any patient-specific concerns?" the nurse asks. "Bleeding," one voice says. "We have cross-matched two units of blood. It is in the blood bank," Peter responds. "Correct," Goodrich. There's some small talk, then Goodrich motions with his hands to Peter, as if to say you're forgetting something. "Final line?" he says. "May the surgeon do a wonderful job," one doctor says. Others chime with "A wonderful job!" and "Good luck!" Goodrich flashes a thumbs up: "Thank you." It's time to operate. Tepper makes the first incision at 9:45 a.m. Dr. James T. Goodrich holds a 3D model of the McDonald's twins in his office at Montefiore. 'The easiest part is done' The next several hours are a whir of activity. In the three previous surgeries, the surgical team added tissue expanders to stretch the skin to make sure there was enough to cover their new skulls. Surgeons also separated some of the veins to make way for today's final separation. Mom and Dad eat breakfast with their extended family and take Aza to a nearby park. Nicole is relieved to have Aza to look after because chasing after him keeps her anxiety in check. Christian goes to a dollar store and buys packs of thank you cards. He and Nicole spend more than an hour writing personal notes to their closest friends and family for helping them get this far. The family holes up in the Caregiver Support Center, two floors and two corridors away from the operating room. Shortly after CNN's first story about the family appears Thursday morning, Nicole and Christian start getting swamped with messages from friends and strangers alike. They monitor the hashtag #JadonAndAnias and watch as thousands of dollars in donations pour into their GoFundMe page. They're buoyed by the messages of support from people as far away as the Philippines and Germany. They say their faith is renewed in mankind -- that it's a nice break from sordid headlines and the hotly contested political season. Humanity wins. "Everybody is really showing how much they love these boys," Christian says. "I didn't realize how many people out there have so much good in them and how much they want to help." Nicole had quit her job as a pediatric physical therapist to care for the twins. She reads notes from mothers whose children she once cared for, including one who nicknamed her "Miracle Worker." On her Facebook page, that mother writes, "Nicole is a Miracle Worker and now we're seeing miracles worked in her life." "They're all just so heartfelt," Nicole says. By noon, the surgical team has taken out one tissue expander and removed some temporary plates that were inserted in the earlier surgeries to hold bone back. At 12:04 p.m., it's time to turn the boys to get to a new area to cut -- a delicate maneuver that requires all hands on deck. "1, 2, 3, lift!" a team member says. Jadon's shoulders rotate 45 degrees. They adjust Anias into a similar position. Tepper remains calm, continuing his work. Goodrich stands and turns away from the table. He grabs a nearby 3D replica of the boys' conjoined skulls. A wine connoisseur, he studies it, mulls it over like a fine chardonnay. He's facing two large screen televisions. One shows a live view of the surgery going on behind him. The other provides images of three-dimensional computer models of the boys' veins, arteries and other brain matter. Soon, Goodrich returns to the table. Working diligently with him is Tepper and three other surgeons: Dr. Rani Nasser and Dr. Ajit Jada, both chief residents of neurosurgery, and Dr. Carrie Stern, senior resident of plastic surgery. The high-pitched sounds of tiny cutting instruments pierce the air. A smell, not unlike that of having a cavity filled at the dentist's office, permeates all around. At 1:55 p.m, more than four hours into the surgery, Goodrich turns around and says, "The easiest part is done." Fifteen minutes later, a chunk of skull is removed. No time to rest. The surgical team presses on. They take out a second tissue expander shortly before 3 p.m. Soon after, Goodrich sneaks off for two slices of pizza in a quiet, secluded room in the hospital. Nineteen minutes later, he heads back to the operating room. 'Land of the unknown' Nicole and Christian bide their time with family. Aza bounces off the walls. Grandparents and others pitch in to keep the 3-year-old from driving their mom and dad too crazy. Mom enjoys the distraction. They get occasional updates on the surgery from a nurse practitioner for pediatric neurosurgery. Christian wishes they'd get more news on how it's going. The family members wear white T-shirts Nicole designed. The front of the shirt says Anias with its Hebrew meaning, "God has answered," and Jadon, "God has heard." An infinity sign -- often used as a symbol for conjoined twins -- goes across the middle. Nicole made the shirts to try to raise a few bucks. Soon, she had 200 orders. The family ended up selling 1,000. "I'm gonna hug my wife," Christian says, pulling her tight and holding her. The time now is 4:46 p.m. The day has been a whirlwind since saying goodbye to the boys nine hours earlier. Nicole had never even posted a photograph depicting the boys as conjoined until a month ago. She always took tight shots of each boy's face to show them as individuals. But she knew she wanted to speak to CNN and needed to be brave to "better prepare myself for exposing my children to the world." So, she posted one photo of the boys conjoined on Facebook and then another on her GoFundMe page. "I said, 'OK, I'm getting real brave.'" "The response was beautiful," she says. And now, this day, her boys' day of separation -- a symbolic "second birthday" -- the outpouring of love has been awesome. "The babies steal the show," Christian says. Nicole: "It's their eyes." "We would have it no other way, though," Christian responds. It's now past 5 p.m. As the day progresses, they know their anxiety will intensify. Their boys have gone through the three prior surgeries, and they know the doctors are still making their way through basically undoing those three surgeries before going into the final separation phase. "I call it the land of the unknown," Nicole says. Yet their worries extend beyond their boys surviving today. They wonder what happens with recovery. Will they have seizures? Will they suffer heart failure? How long will they be in intensive care? Despite their worries, Nicole says, "When we sent them off this morning, to me, I felt at peace with it and just ready to handle what comes after." Dr. Goodrich and Nicole McDonald with the twins before surgery. The most critical phase Shortly before 9 p.m., the operating room intensifies. The surgeons have reached their most critical phase: They must separate the shared blood vessels between the two boys. Veins are very thin walled, and one section of Jadon and Anias' brains are intricately tied together, much more so than originally believed. A single cut that goes too deep can lead to catastrophic bleeding. Neuroradiologist Joaquim Farinhas stands in front of the screen displaying the 3D computer model. He calls Dr. Ajit Jada over from the operating table and points at the cluster of veins. Farinhas dispenses advice. Jada returns to the table. "Be very gentle with Anias' side," Farinhas calls out to the surgical team. Tepper, who had taken a brief break, returns to the table. "It's a bear," says Farinhas. "This is the most important part," he explains, "because the vessels are so delicate and they're so complicated. It's almost a lake of veins that they're trying to negotiate. It's pretty amazing." The surgical team has to figure out: How do you tie it off safely? How do you separate it? Should we proceed? At 9:18 p.m., Goodrich says, "We just closed off the sagittal sinus." "That chardonnay is on the way," quips Farinhas. A note of levity amid the intensity. The last stitch Seconds tick off into minutes, which turn into hours. The surgery is meticulous, tricky, complex. And that's an understatement. At 1:18 a.m., Tepper, the plastic surgeon, steps to a nearby metallic table and takes a special saw to split a removed skull piece into two. Those two pieces will be used for the boys' new skullcaps. Goodrich and his team continue to work away toward the moment of separation. At about 1:40 a.m., he sits in a seat next to the operating table with hands crossed, as if admiring the work. Moments later, he stands and dives right back into surgery. At 2:10 a.m., Goodrich says, "One more inch." "We're ready. You ready?" one surgeon says. "Yep," Goodrich says. Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. It's a badge of honor as to who gets the last cut when separating conjoined twins. "The last stitch," Tepper says. "Who wants it?" The only woman surgeon at the table, Dr. Carrie Stern, makes the historic last cut, at 2:11 a.m. "We are official," Goodrich says. The room bursts into spontaneous applause. After nearly 16½ hours, the boys are separated.
There are two things you need to know about Australians, from an Australian. One, we’re an enterprising and ingenious people, and two, we love a drink. One Aussie man has perfectly exemplified those characteristics by wading through an impressive collection of beer cans in a backyard shed, prompting some social media fans to nickname him “the Australian Scrooge McDuck.” In a series of videos posted on Youtube, a woman identified as Tammy Penhall narrates the scene as she pans around the room in all its glory. At one point, she films an unidentified older gentleman, dressed in a cap and tank top with a cigarette dangling from his mouth, who wades around among the cans. “Some guys actually commented this would actually be their dream ball pit. Well, this is your dream beer pit, guys,” Penhall joked, adding, “The VB shed at its finest.”
(CNN) "Arrested Development" is back, after an experimental fourth season that the parties appear to be tacitly admitting didn't entirely work, given that the producers re-edited the episodes. Returning to more familiar terrain, the show remains amusing, while delivering what feels like diminishing returns. It's worth remembering this "semi-original series," as it's cheekily billed, didn't survive on Fox because critical accolades far outweighed its ratings. Funny, quirky and irreverent, it seemed made for a premium platform, and Netflix opportunistically swept in with a stay of execution. On network TV, it felt like a risk-taking outlier when it premiered in 2003. That's far less true in today's rarefied world of streaming, as the latest season comes five years after the last, at a moment when Netflix is awash in original programming. Viewed that way, "Arrested" remains fun -- thanks largely to the modest kick of seeing the talented gang back together -- but plays like more of an afterthought, both in the context of its new home and in general. The new season is loaded with self-referential gags, including a few aimed at Ron Howard (who again narrates the show) and his producing partner in Imagine Entertainment, Brian Grazer. There are jokes about "Imagine dollars," which only work in the company's gift shop; "paying off the Hollywood Foreign Press," the group that hands out the Golden Globes; and "a Han Solo origin picture," which Howard of course directed. Read More
(CNN) If you're like many people I know, the thought of giving up pasta and bread in an effort to shed a few pounds (or more) might seem like an unfair punishment -- perhaps even a tease, especially when those foods seem to be on everyone else's plates. The truth is, despite the popularity of low-carb diets, which often send the message that we should drastically cut back on this food group, carbohydrates are some of the most important things we consume. They are key to regulating blood sugar and providing energy throughout our bodies. Without them, our bodies will rely on protein, breaking it down for energy instead of using it in its preferred role of growing and maintaining tissues. What's more, eating the "right" kinds of carbs can keep us healthier. "The people who live the longest, healthiest lives -- who have the lowest rates of diabetes, heart disease and cancer -- their diets are all rich in healthy carbs, including beans, legumes, whole grains and fruit," said Tamara Duker Freuman, a New York City-based registered dietitian. And so there's nothing wrong with a pasta meal (though whole grain is preferred) or even a sandwich on whole-wheat bread for lunch every day. Simply, the problem is not that we consume carbs; it's that we often consume the wrong kinds of carbs -- and very large portions of them. Processed carbs are problem carbs Highly processed carbs -- white bread, sugary cereal, white rice, regular pasta and bagels, for example -- produce rapid rises and drops in blood sugar, which can lead to weight gain. They also can lead to something called metabolic syndrome, which is associated with an increased risk for heart disease, stroke and diabetes. Metabolic syndrome is "the combination of high triglycerides and low HDL cholesterol, insulin resistance and obesity," explained Dr. David Ludwig, professor of nutrition at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. "And processed carbs are the main dietary drivers." Studies show that "processed carbs top the list for weight gain and diabetes risk," he said. The tricky part is that the more processed, refined carbs we eat, the more we crave. And so it seems almost impossible to get off the carb-craving hamster wheel. According to Ludwig, who wrote the book "Always Hungry? Conquer Cravings, Retrain Your Fat Cells, and Lose Weight Permanently," cravings have to do with our consumption of these highly processed, "fast-acting" carbs, which he says are not fundamentally different from sugar, in the biological sense. White bread or any other processed carbohydrate will melt into glucose very quickly -- and so like sugar, it raises blood sugar at a faster rate than slower-digesting carbs that are less processed and higher in fiber. The problem is, that rapid spike in blood sugar is eventually followed by a crash. Insulin: Miracle-Gro for fat cells According to Ludwig, what drives most carb cravings is not the taste of the foods per se but rather a biological urge to eat something to restore your blood sugar. And it has to do with the hormone insulin. "Processed carbs cause more insulin secretion, calorie for calorie, than any food," he said. When you eat processed carbs, blood sugar rises rapidly, and insulin quickly follows, directing incoming calories into liver, muscle and fat cells. But of these, only fat cells have virtually limitless ability to store calories, and too many get trapped there, according to Ludwig. A short while later, the calories in the bloodstream are low, and the body runs out of available fuel, making you hungry too soon after the meal. In essence, when fat cells get too much energy, there's not enough to fuel the brain, which is constantly monitoring the calories in your blood. "When (the brain) sees calories are dropping, it triggers hunger and cravings," Ludwig said. And it all relates back to that initial insulin response. "Insulin is the Miracle-Gro for fat cells," he said. "When fat cells grow, we get hungry." And so the cycle repeats, eventually causing weight gain. How to break carb cravings Nutrition experts say that breaking carb cravings is not about getting rid of carbs entirely but rather cutting back on highly processed fast-acting carbs and eating more high-quality ones that are high in fiber and low in added sugars, such as beans, whole grains, fruit and vegetables. If you don't know how to get started, this plan can help: 1. Cut out all starchy carbs for one week. This includes all pasta, bread, rice, bagels and potatoes, as well as pizza, crackers, pretzels, chips, cookies and cake. By cutting starchy carbs and replacing them with foods that have a more modest impact on blood sugar, you can achieve more steady blood sugar control and better manage your cravings, according to Freuman. A day might include egg whites and cheese with berries for breakfast, yogurt for a snack, a grilled chicken salad with beans for lunch, an apple for a snack and a piece of fish and veggies for dinner. 2. Slash the sugary carbs too, including candy and sugar-sweetened beverages. These sugary carbs rapidly flood the bloodstream, providing lots of sugar without any added nutrition. 3. Add some fat. "Many high-fat foods are luscious and do not cause an insulin release, so they keep your blood sugar much more stable," Ludwig said. Examples include nuts, nut butters, avocado, olive oil, dark chocolate and full-fat dairy. "When you are eating them, you don't miss the processed carbs at all!" 4. After the first week, you can gradually add back high-quality starchy carbs, starting with breakfast. "Research in a variety of populations has shown that eating carbs at breakfast seems to dampen the blood sugar effect of eating carbs at lunch," Freuman said. What this means is that on a day that you skip breakfast, you may be more likely to have a blood sugar spike after eating a carb-rich lunch, compared with a day when you eat breakfast but have the same lunch. In other words, "don't skip breakfast, and don't skip carbs at breakfast," Freuman said. High-quality carbs -- including minimally processed grains, along with non-starchy vegetables, whole fruits and beans -- are the ones to choose. They are delicious and slower-digesting, thanks to the way they are naturally packaged, Ludwig said. "If you eat wheat berries, your body has to digest the intact grain kernel, and that's a slow process. But if you mill it and turn it into flour, now that whole package has been broken. Too much of these 'naked carbs' (stripped of their bran and germ, which contain nutrients) will cause metabolic problems for most people." Breakfast examples with high-quality carbs include steel-cut oats with nuts, seeds and cinnamon; rye crisp bread with scrambled eggs and berries; or Greek yogurt topped with fruit. Freuman recommends beans at breakfast too, "as in a Mexican breakfast with eggs, beans, avocado and salsa." 5. After the second week, you can add back high-quality starchy carbs (i.e. minimally processed grains) to lunch. Good lunch examples include a chickpea or quinoa salad, bean or lentil soups, mushroom barley soup or a sandwich with whole-grain bread. Whole-wheat pasta or chickpea pasta is a good choice too, according to Freuman, though it should take up only about a quarter of the plate, to allow room for veggies and protein. For the longer term 6. Continue to skip starchy carbs at dinner. "At dinner, when we eat carbs, we are much more likely to have a blood sugar spike and to store that food energy as fat versus having it available for useable energy," Freuman said. "The metabolic response to a carbier meal at night is less favorable than when we eat carbs earlier in the day, so if there is ever one meal that you want eat low-carb, it's dinner ... and if you want to include them, choose wisely and keep the portions low," she added. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. 7. Continue to limit refined carbs, such as white bread and white rice. It might be difficult to forgo white basmati rice, pizza or sushi entirely, but limit these foods to a few times per week. 8. Continue to avoid foods high in added sugars. If you have a sweet tooth, limit treats to 100 to 150 calories per day, depending on your goals. And note that anyone with a medical issue should always consult their doctor before starting a new diet plan.
(CNN) It's a precious moment for families around the world when twilight falls, children yawn and bedtime routines engage. Yet the places where children sleep, the time they lay down at night and even how they prepare for shut-eye vary across cultures. Even differences in children's bedrooms around the world can be striking, as inVenice-basedphotographer James Mollison's photo series " Where Children Sleep ," which has been adapted into a book. Though it has been nearly seven years since the series was published, the photographs still spark conversation as they turn a lens to bedtime around the globe Parenting Without Borders considers how parenting trends and methods differ -- or don't -- around the world. While photographing the series, "I met many families who sleep together in one room or children who sleep in a space of convenience, rather than a place they can in any sense call their room," Mollison said. "I came to appreciate just how privileged I was to have had my own bedroom to sleep in and grow," he said. "I met children who had literally nothing except for a place to sleep and other children who couldn't move for all their toys." Here is a sampling of what bedtime looks like in households around the world. Drastic differences in babies' bedtimes While researching children's sleep across the globe, clinical psychologist Jodi Mindell was surprised to discover significant differences in bedtimes for infants and toddlers based on where they lived. She described the differences as "unbelievable." "When I walked into doing this study, I really thought we would see 10- or 15-minute differences," said Mindell, a professor at Saint Joseph's University in Philadelphia and associate director of the Sleep Center at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia It turned out, however, "we're seeing these 2½-hour differences between some countries like Australia and New Zealand with other countries like Hong Kong and Korea," she said. "Bedtimes ranged dramatically across cultures." Mindell and her colleagues analyzed how the parents of 29,287 infants and toddlers, up to 3 years old, responded to questionnaires about their children's bedtimes. Those findings were published in the journal Sleep Medicine in 2010. The parents were from China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Korea, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States. They completed the questionnaires between May and June 2006, September and December 2007 and April 2008. The researchers found that the latest bedtimes were reported among parents in Hong Kong, who on average reported bedtimes about 10:17 p.m., whereas the earliest bedtimes were reported among parents in New Zealand: around 7:28 p.m., on average. The study was sponsored by pharmaceutical company Johnson & Johnson, and Mindell has served as a consultant for the company. Bedtimes also appear to vary across European countries, said Sara Harkness, a professor and director of the Center for the Study of Culture, Health, and Human Development at the University of Connecticut. She was not involved in the Sleep Medicine study but has conducted research on children's activities and bedtimes. "We certainly did find in our research in Spain that early bedtimes were not common for young children. In fact, on one occasion, our Spanish colleague invited us to watch preschool children in a performance at a local festival starting about 11 p.m.," Harkness said. "The most dramatic contrast we've seen to this pattern is in the Netherlands, where babies and young children are put to bed at around 6:30 or 7 and expected to sleep through the night in their own bed, often in their own room," she said. On the other hand, "in small-scale traditional preindustrial societies such as the Kipsigis people of Kenya, where we did research in the 1970s, babies were always in close proximity to caretakers, generally their mother or an older sibling, and they slept anywhere and any time," she said. Around the world, there are not only differences in when babies snooze but in what happens before they slumber. Parents try it all to get babies to sleep In the United States, it's common for parents to prepare their children for bedtime with a soothing bath followed by a lullaby or, for older kids, a book. Yet around the world, bedtime routines involve a different approach, and in some places, they appear to be less common. "One of the biggest similarities is that most families include in their child's bedtime routine, for 0-3, some type of feeding, whether it's breastfeeding or bottle-feeding or snacks, and that's consistent across all countries, but if we take that out, there's big differences in activities like bathing," Mindell said, citing her own research In the US, "60% of families have a bath as part of their bedtime routine. It's even higher in the United Kingdom at 81%. But somewhere like India, only 13%. In Indonesia, it's only 6%," she said. "They typically bathe in the morning or at another time of the day." There are also regional differences in which bedtime routines include prayers, Mindell added. "In the Philippines, 29% of families -- basically one out of three families -- include prayers as part of their bedtime routine," she said. "Whereas some place like Australia, only 6% did. In Indonesia, 30% include prayers as part of their bedtime routine." JUST WATCHED Toddler's bedtime prayer caught on baby monitor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Toddler's bedtime prayer caught on baby monitor 01:52 Once the time comes to actually get some shut-eye, parents use different approaches to get their children to sleep. In Korea, Harkness said, parents often sleep with their babies to help them drift into dreamland, but Dutch parents tend to leave their babies alone in their rooms, where the children must learn to put themselves to sleep. "The Dutch parents in our studies strongly supported a cultural rule of the ' Three R's' of childrearing -- rust, regelmaat, en reinheid, or 'rest, regularity and cleanliness' -- which entailed establishing a firm routine featuring plenty of sleep on a regular schedule from an early age," Harkness said. Who bed-shares, and who doesn't Similar differences emerge among bed-sharing practices. "Co-sleeping is the usual practice in preindustrial societies around the world where there are no special beds for babies to sleep safely by themselves. Co-sleeping on mats on the floor is a cultural norm in Asia, where the family traditionally co-sleeps together in the same room. Mats are brought out at night, then stored during the day so the same room is both a living room and a sleeping room," Harkness said. "We found more tolerance for co-sleeping for at least part of the night for babies and young children in European communities we studied, but this may have changed more recently following pediatric advice," she said. In the United States, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends against sharing a bed with your infant and says "there is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against the use of devices promoted to make bed-sharing 'safe.' " "The US parents seem to receive more strict guidance, especially from pediatricians, about avoiding co-sleeping," Harkness said. "This is part of a larger set of advice about sleeping arrangements, including not using padded 'bumpers' around cribs, having the baby sleep on its back and not using covers such as quilts or blankets for babies -- all for the same purpose of avoiding the danger of suffocation." 'Bedtime routines are the perfect package' All in all, bedtime routines can benefit a child's development , Mindell said. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "Bedtime routines are the perfect package for not only sleep, but for promoting positive child development," Mindell said. "Children who have consistent bedtime routines not only sleep better, but it also promotes things like literacy, attachment, language, bonding and self-care -- all the things that we want children to have, whether or not they live in India or whether they live in the United States," she said.
For more stunning fashion moments from the festival’s red carpet, keep scrolling: One thing we love about Cannes is the fact that attendees aren’t afraid to go big. Many, like Julianne Moore and Cate Blanchett, have opted for couture gowns plucked from the runway. Then there’s Deepika Padukone, who always brings her A-game to the festival . This year, she wore some stunning gowns, but our favorite has to be the bright fuchsia Ashi Studio number she donned for the “Ash Is The Purest White” premiere. Talk about making an entrance. The 71st annual Cannes Film Festival is underway in France, and as usual, there’s been no shortage of stunning looks on the red carpet. Cindy Bruna Barcroft Media via Getty Images Wearing Ashi Studio at the "Burning" premiere on May 16. Petra Nemcova Barcroft Media via Getty Images Wearing Georges Chakra at the "Burning" premiere on May 16. Khadja Nin George Pimentel via Getty Images At the screening of "Burning" on May 16. Aissa Maiga Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Balmain at the screening of "Burning" on May 16. Adriana Lima Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Alberta Ferretti at the screening of "Burning" on May 16. Jiang Mengjie VCG via Getty Images At the screening of "Burning" on May 16. Winnie Harlow Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Jean-Louis Sabaji Couture at the screening of "Solo: A Star Wars Story" on May 15. Shanina Shaik Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Alberta Ferretti at the screening of "Solo: A Star Wars Story" on May 15. Emilia Clarke Mike Marsland via Getty Images Wearing Dior at the screening of "Solo: A Star Wars Story" on May 15. Sara Sampaio Barcroft Media via Getty Images Wearing Ralph & Russo at the "Solo: A Star Wars Story" premiere on May 15. Sonam Kapoor LOIC VENANCE via Getty Images Wearing Vera Wang on May 15, 2018 for the screening of the film "Solo : A Star Wars Story." Sonam Kapoor Anadolu Agency via Getty Images Wearing Ralph & Russo for the screening of the film "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14. Bella Hadid Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Elie Saab couture at the screening of "Blackkklansman" on May 14. Cate Blanchett Dominique Charriau via Getty Images Wearing Givenchy Haute Couture at the screening of "Blackkklansman" on May 14. Natasha Poly George Pimentel via Getty Images Wearing Atelier Versace at the screening of "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14. Nicole Scherzinger Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Ashi Studio at the screening of "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14. Daphne Groeneveld Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Roberto Cavalli couture at the screening of "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14. Winnie Harlow Vittorio Zunino Celotto via Getty Images Wearing Ralph & Russo at the screening of "BlacKkKlansman" on May 14. Aishwarya Rai Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Rami Kadi Couture at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13. Araya Hargate Stephane Cardinale - Corbis via Getty Images In Giambattista Valli couture for the "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" photo call on May 13. Diane Kruger Stephane Cardinale - Corbis via Getty Images Wearing Armani Privé at the "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" photo call on May 13. Lea Mornar Gisela Schober via Getty Images At the screening of "A Family Matter (Une Affaire De Famille)" on May 13. Izabel Goulart Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Zuhair Murad couture at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13. Iskra Lawrence Andreas Rentz via Getty Images Wearing Justin Alexander at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13. Chiara Ferragni Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing custom Alberta Ferretti at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13. Jane Fonda ALBERTO PIZZOLI via Getty Images Wearing Givenchy Haute Couture at the screening of "Sink or Swim (Le Grand Bain" on May 13. Bruna Marquezine Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Philosophy di Lorenzo Serafini at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13. Stacy Martin Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Dior at the screening of "Sink Or Swim (Le Grand Bain)" on May 13. Elsa Hosk Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Alberta Ferretti at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12. Sofia Boutella Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Vera Wang Bridal at the screening of "Farenheit 451" on May 12. Jasmine Tookes Mike Marsland via Getty Images Wearing Zac Posen at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12. Kendall Jenner Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Schiaparelli couture at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12. Aishwarya Rai Gisela Schober via Getty Images Wearing Michael Cinco couture at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12. Helen Mirren George Pimentel via Getty Images Wearing Elie Saab couture at the screening of "Girls Of The Sun (Les Filles Du Soleil)" on May 12. Deepika Padukone Vittorio Zunino Celotto via Getty Images In Ashi Studio couture, at the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11. Araya Hargate George Pimentel via Getty Images In Ashi Studio at the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11. Kangana Ranaut George Pimentel via Getty Images In Nedo by Nedret Taciroglu at the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11. Bella Hadid VALERY HACHE via Getty Images Wearing Dior Couture for the screening of the film "Ash is Purest White (Jiang hu er nv)" on May 11. Miya Muqi Andreas Rentz via Getty Images At the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11. Praya Lundberg George Pimentel via Getty Images In Michael Cinco Couture at the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)." Lupita Nyong'o Gisela Schober via Getty Images In Christian Dior Couture at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10. Amber Heard Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Wearing Valentino couture at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10. Aja Naomi King Emma McIntyre via Getty Images Wearing Zuhair Murad couture at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10. Deepika Padukone George Pimentel via Getty Images In Zuhair Murad at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10. Irina Shayk Venturelli via Getty Images In Versace at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10. Cate Blanchett Andreas Rentz via Getty Images In Mary Katrantzou at the screening of "Cold War (Zimna Wojna)" on May 10. Guan Xiaotong George Pimentel via Getty Images At the screening of "Ash Is The Purest White (Jiang Hu Er Nv)" on May 11. Celina Jade Venturelli via Getty Images Wearing Dior at the screening of "Sorry Angel (Plaire, Aimer Et Courir Vite)" on May 10. Julianne Moore LOIC VENANCE via Getty Images Wearing Givenchy Haute Couture at the screening of the film "Todos Lo Saben (Everybody Knows)" on May 8. Kristen Stewart, Ava DuVernay, Denis Villeneuve, Cate Blanchett, Robert Guediguian, Khadja Nin and Andrey Zvyagintsev LOIC VENANCE via Getty Images On May 8, 2018 for the screening of the film "Todos Lo Saben (Everybody Knows)." Fan Bingbing Tony Barson via Getty Images Wearing Ali Karoui at the screening of "Everybody Knows (Todos Lo Saben)" on May 8. Camila Coelho Dominique Charriau via Getty Images Wearing Ralph & Russo at the screening of "Everybody Knows (Todos Lo Saben)" on May 8.
What is the Irish abortion referendum about? Ireland’s abortion referendum will decide whether the country’s strict abortion laws should be relaxed. Voters will be given the chance to vote yes or no on whether the Eighth Amendment to the country’s constitution should be repealed, opening the doors for the government to pass legislation making abortion legal. The Eighth Amendment currently says the unborn child and the mother have an equal right to life. Under the country’s new laws if the amendment is repealed, women in Ireland could legally obtain an abortion within the first 12 weeks of pregnancy and up to 24 weeks in cases where the woman’s life or health was at risk. Terminations would also be allowed if the unborn baby had a fatal abnormality. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter YouTube Pinterest Snapchat Instagram CLOSE What are Ireland’s current abortion laws? Under Ireland’s current abortion laws, terminating a pregnancy is effectively illegal. While Irish politicians voted to allow terminations under “limited circumstances” in 2013, including when the mother’s life is under threat as a result of the pregnancy, just 25 legal abortions were carried out in Ireland in 2016. Women who obtain an illegal abortion in Ireland can face up to 14 years imprisonment. Expectant mothers are, however, allowed to travel abroad to terminate their pregnancies. In 2016, 3,265 Irish women made the journey from Ireland to the UK for the procedure.
Homeboy is gonna like ... get it, or maybe he already did. Exes Bella Hadid and The Weeknd have apparently rekindled their romance after they were spotted kissing at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival over the weekend, according to multiple outlets. The supermodel and the R&B singer, whose real name is Abel Tesfaye, apparently packed on the PDA during rapper Travis Scott‘s set at Poppy nightclub’s Coachella pop-up, with onlookers declaring that they “definitely looked like they were fully back together,” according to People.
Netflix A year after the first season of Netflix’s “13 Reasons Why” sparked a debate over its unsettling depiction of teenage suicide, showrunner Brian Yorkey has unfurled a new, increasingly graphic batch of episodes. One in particular, however, has people talking. And it features not one but two significant events that, when taken together, equate to a highly disturbing finale. (Warning: The below description may be unsettling to some readers.) “13 Reasons Why” Season 2 picks up where the last season left off, focusing primarily on how the students of Liberty High School are recovering from the tragic death of Hannah Baker (Katherine Langford) and the ensuing legal battle between her parents and the school. But the final episode stands apart from Hannah’s narrative. It features one of the most horrifying and heartbreaking scenes I’ve ever seen on television. The scene occurs midway through Episode 13, dubbed “Bye.” Tyler (Devin Druid), who recently returned to school following a stint in behavioral rehab after he was caught vandalizing the baseball field, is confronted in a bathroom by Monty (Timothy Granaderos) and two other student-athletes. Monty, a close friend of villainous jock Bryce (Justin Prentice) ― who has somehow gotten away with raping both Hannah and Jessica (Alisha Boe) ― is still reeling over the fact that Tyler ruined Liberty’s baseball season. When Monty sees that Tyler’s back at school, he plans to make him suffer. So Monty and his friends initiate a sequence of male-on-male violence rarely seen on-screen. First, they smash Tyler’s head against a mirror and sink. Then they shove his head in a toilet, pinning him down. Monty proceeds to sodomize Tyler with a mop handle, aggressively pushing it deeper into Tyler’s rectum as the teen cries out in agony. When the heinous act is completed, the young men leave Tyler there, petrified, bleeding and bruised. It’s a stomach-churning two minutes worth of storyline, which Druid ― along with fellow cast members Boe, Dylan Minnette, Ross Butler and Christian Navarro ― discussed in an interview with HuffPost on Tuesday. It was incredibly intimidating because you’re suddenly given this responsibility to portray this horrific thing that unfortunately happens to many people around the world, and to a lot of young people these days. Devin Druid “When it did come time to get to the final episode and [showrunner] Brian [Yorkey] was walking me through this idea of what would happen to Tyler, it was incredibly intimidating,” he told me during a Build Series segment in New York City. “Because you’re suddenly given this responsibility to portray this horrific thing that unfortunately happens to many people around the world, and to a lot of young people these days.” “But then you think about what you’re doing and the greater impact that it will hopefully have on people’s lives,” he added, “and it does kind of fill you with a sense of bringing justice to something and saying, hopefully, this is helping someone and that will make me feel much better about what we’re doing here.” The “horrific thing” Druid mentioned, “that unfortunately happens to many people,” is a reference to the sexual assault his character was forced to endure. But it could also refer to the violence Tyler almost enacts on his peers: Shortly after the assault scene, “13 Reasons Why” has Tyler attempting to seek revenge on his classmates by showing up to a school dance with an automatic weapon. This is how the season ends. With a panicked Clay (Minnette), rifle pointed at his chest, pleading with Tyler outside the school to reconsider his next move as sirens blare in the background. “I don’t want you to die,” Clay tells him, tears streaming down his face. Tyler appears to be questioning his motives as Clay lowers the gun. “We’ll figure it out, I swear,” he tells Tyler. That’s when Tony (Navarro) pulls up in his car and screams at Tyler to get in, leaving Clay, weapon in hand, alone as the cops approach. It’s a plot decision that ― like Hannah’s suicide scene from last season ― has caused a divisive rift in the show’s fandom. 13 reasons why does not “raise awareness for mental health, bullying, etc.” it’s a disgusting show that show’s horrific/traumatizing/triggering scenes. that is NOT raising awareness. — shay (@shaylapham01) May 22, 2018 13 reasons why is a good show, it discusses things (in my opinion) in a respectful manner, but what we must be aware of is that it IS graphic and it warns of this many times. If you are suffering with mental Illness this will hit hard, I am not a professional but I wouldn’t- — Amybeth (@AmybethMcnulty) May 22, 2018 13 reasons why just exploits the idea of mental illnesses for cash money — b rock (@yungtoliet) May 22, 2018 Y’all don’t like “13 Reasons Why” because it makes you talk and think about uncomfortable topics such as Rape, Suicide and Sexual Assualt. All these topics that people try their best to ignore and you see what happens when you ignore it? All these things continue to happen. — Sam (@samoffficial) May 22, 2018 I really don’t know how 13 reasons why manages to get away with showing the kind of scenes that they do, I’m not a sensitive person but they turn my stomach, god knows what affect they have on those who have experienced it — Clo (@_chloehutchison) May 22, 2018 you can shit on #13ReasonsWhy as much as you want, but if only 1% can relate to it and feel better about their situation or less lonely with their struggles the series has it job done. every1 suffers differently from mental illness so it's impossible to represent every1 out there — Domé Je (@dome_je) May 22, 2018 “I was aware that there were some warning precautions, but the [assault] scene was very vulgar and unnecessarily uncomfortable ― not for the sexuality part but for how much emotion and intensity it had,” Kendal Wiley, a 19-year-old fan of the show from Burleson, Texas, told HuffPost. Yorkey himself defended the scene to Vulture: We’re committed on this show to telling truthful stories about things that young people go through in as unflinching a way as we can ... the fact is that, as intense as that scene is, and as strong as our reactions to it may be, it doesn’t even come close to the pain experienced by the people who actually go through these things. Netflix “We all take this very seriously and I think it’s a big responsibility for each of us, but it’s a privilege, as well,” Navarro emphasized to HuffPost, noting that, as actors on “13 Reasons Why,” the cast is often expected to speak to the series’ controversial subject matter. “I don’t think any of us imagined we would be on a show with this level of importance,” he said. “The impact that it’s had here in the States and than globally took us for a surprise, so we’re still dealing with that every day.” The show, Navarro said, was written and produced before the various instances of violence on school properties in 2018. “But [school shootings are] prevalent and our show helps to spark a conversation,” he added, “as it did last year with suicide and bullying and sexual assault. Hopefully the same conversation will be sparked this year with gun violence.” “That’s our goal with the show,” Minnette said, “to speak to teens, to speak to people any age, really, and just start conversations. Important ones.”
(CNN) A Democratic candidate for Congress from Virginia compares President Donald Trump to Osama bin Laden in a digital and television ad released on Wednesday. "After 9/11, the greatest threat to our democracy lived in a cave," narrates candidate Dan Helmer as a photo of bin Laden flashes on the screen. "Today, he lives in the White House. No one, even the President, is above the law." Helmer -- an Army veteran who served in Iraq -- is running in the Democratic primary in Virginia's 10th Congressional District to face incumbent Republican Rep. Barbara Comstock. The advertisement, titled "Different," plays up Helmer's military service, emphasizing a new approach that Democrats are taking to recruit military veterans. Another hot button issue -- gun control -- comes up in the ad as Helmer says, "I'll fight the gun lobby to protect children, not guns," as video flashes of kids in a lockdown scenario. Helmer's campaign manager, Bonnie Krenz, says the campaign poured half a million dollars into a joint television and digital advertisement buy. She told CNN that the digital ads began on Wednesday and the television ads will start running on Thursday on major stations in Northern Virginia and Washington. Read More
(CNN) Congressional Republicans spend most of their time these days holding their breath and praying that President Donald Trump doesn't say something that will blow up their carefully laid plans for the 2018 election. Of course, this is Donald Trump we are talking about. And blowing up carefully laid plans is, well, sort of his thing. Which brings me to Trump's speech at the annual Susan B. Anthony dinner in Washington Tuesday night . Here's part of what Trump said when talking about the coming midterm election: "But if Democrats gain power, they will try to reverse these incredible gains. These are historic gains. They will try and reverse many of them. So your vote in 2018 is every bit as important as your vote in 2016 -- although I'm not sure I really believe that, but you know. (Laughter.) I don't know who the hell wrote that line. I'm not sure. (Laughter and applause.) But it's still important." HA HA HA HA HA ... wait. This is vintage Trump. He is reading a prepared speech about how 2018 is so critical because it will determine whether the gains made for conservatives with his 2016 election will be continued in the second half of his first term or not. It's standard issue political speak for a president trying to rally his somewhat too-satisfied base to the necessity of turning out to vote in midterm contests. Since there have been midterm elections, presidents have given speeches in the run-up to the campaign trying make sure their bases understand just how high the stakes actually are for this non-presidential year vote. JUST WATCHED These are the highlights of Trump's Twitter habit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH These are the highlights of Trump's Twitter habit 02:03 But this is Trump. And Trump never does things the way past presidents (or even past politicians) have. So he reads the line -- "your vote in 2018 is every bit as important as your vote in 2016" -- but them stops himself because, well, he doesn't totally believe it. Trump believes that the most important election -- past, present or future -- was his election in 2016. It was the biggest upset in American political history. It was a seminal moment in the ongoing battle between the people and the powerful. It signaled a remaking of not just the Republican party but of how we conceive of -- and analyze -- American politics. (Nota bene: I think he's right about all of that.) In truth, that doesn't make Trump terribly unique. Every president thinks his election -- especially the first one -- is the most important election. And that the second most important election is their reelection race. The difference? They don't say it out loud. Trump's honesty is sure to send a chill down the spines of Republican strategists tasked with trying to hold onto the GOP's 23-seat majority come this fall. For Republicans to have any chance at remaining the majority party in 2019, they badly need the Trump base that turned out in droves to vote for the GOP nominee in 2016 to again head to the polls in five months' time. The available data since that 2016 election suggests that isn't easy -- even with an engaged Trump. In Alabama, Trump was an active participant in the final days of the special election between Roy Moore and Doug Jones. But he was unable to sway the result to Moore. Ditto a special House election in southwestern Pennsylvania in which Trump campaigned with the Republican nominee, only to watch him come up short with voters. What Republicans simply cannot have is a Trump who seems less than jazzed about the 2018 midterms -- and who conveys that "meh" feeling to his core base of supporters. Which is why Trump's comments on Tuesday night have to be so concerning for Republicans. Let's be clear: There was a joke-y element to Trump's aside. People laughed -- twice! -- during his 2018-is-no-2016 lines. But, in all "jokes" there is an element of truth. Especially when the joker is Donald Trump. He often hides behind humor to tell truths he quite clearly believes. Or uses the idea that he was joking to escape criticism or controversy The question Republican candidates and elected officials have to ask themselves this morning is, do they trust that Trump was joking? And, even more importantly: Does Trump's base know that he was joking? And will he make that clear a whole bunch of times between now and the November election? Can anyone make him? Even the slightest loss of enthusiasm among Trump base voters could be problematic for the broader Republican Party. Special election results over the past 17 months have confirmed time and again what polls of the electorate also show: That the Democratic base is currently more passionate and motivated to turn out than the Republican one. Trump's role over the next five months is to use his personal popularity among Republican base voters to close that gap. But comments like the one he made Tuesday night could well have the opposite effect.
Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover tweeted out a new image on January 23, 2018: "I'm back! Did you miss me?" The selfie is part of a fresh batch of images the rover beamed back from Mars. Hide Caption 1 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Five years ago and 154 million miles away, NASA's Curiosity Mars rover successfully landed on the planet. Take a look back at what the rover has been up to these past five years, including this selfie it took on January 19, 2016. Hide Caption 2 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The bright blue speck in the middle of this image is NASA's Curiosity Mars rover. The image was taken from another NASA spacecraft, Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, which is in orbit above the planet, on June 6, 2017. Hide Caption 3 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Curiosity has temperature and humidity sensors mounted on its mast. Calculations in 2015 based on Curiosity's measurements indicate that Mars could be dotted with tiny puddles of salty water at night. Hide Caption 4 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The Mars rover Curiosity does a test drill on a rock dubbed "Bonanza King" to determine whether it would be a good place to dig deeper and take a sample. But after the rock shifted, the test was stopped. Hide Caption 5 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Wheel tracks from Curiosity are seen on the sandy floor of a lowland area dubbed "Hidden Valley" in this image. Hide Caption 6 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The rover recently encountered this iron meteorite, which NASA named "Lebanon." This find is similar in shape and luster to iron meteorites found on Mars by the previous generation of rovers. A portion of the rock was outlined by NASA scientists. Hide Caption 7 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Curiosity took this nighttime photo of a hole it drilled May 5 to collect soil samples. NASA said this image combines eight exposures taken after dark on May 13. Hide Caption 8 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This view of the twilight sky and Martian horizon, taken by Curiosity, includes Earth as the brightest point of light in the night sky. Earth is a little left of center in the image, and our moon is just below Earth. A human observer with normal vision, if standing on Mars, could easily see Earth and the moon as two distinct, bright "evening stars." Hide Caption 9 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The lower slopes of "Mount Sharp" are visible at the top of this image, taken on July 9, 2013. The turret of tools at the end of the rover's arm, including the rock-sampling drill in the lower left corner, can also be seen. Hide Caption 10 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The rock on the left, called "Wopmay," was discovered by the rover Opportunity, which arrived in 2004 on a different part of Mars. Iron-bearing sulfates indicate that this rock was once in acidic waters. On the right are rocks from "Yellowknife Bay," where rover Curiosity was situated. These rocks are suggestive of water with a neutral pH, which is hospitable to life formation. Hide Caption 11 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Curiosity shows the first sample of powdered rock extracted by the rover's drill. The image was taken by Curiosity's mast camera on February 20, 2013. Hide Caption 12 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The rover drilled this hole, in a rock that's part of a flat outcrop researchers named "John Klein," during its first sample drilling on February 8, 2013. Hide Caption 13 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Curiosity's first set of nighttime photos include this image of Martian rock illuminated by ultraviolet lights. Curiosity used the camera on its robotic arm, the Mars Hand Lens Imager, to capture the images on January 22, 2013. Hide Caption 14 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover A view of what NASA describes as "veined, flat-lying rock." It was selected as the first drilling site for the Mars rover. Hide Caption 15 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Curiosity used a dust-removal tool for the first time to clean this patch of rock on the Martian surface on January 6, 2013. Hide Caption 16 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The Mars rover Curiosity recorded this view from its left navigation camera after an 83-foot eastward drive on November 18, 2012. The view is toward "Yellowknife Bay" in the "Glenelg" area of Gale Crater. Hide Caption 17 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Three "bite marks" made by the rover's scoop can be seen in the soil on Mars surface on October 15, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The robotic arm on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity delivered a sample of Martian soil to the rover's observation tray for the first time on October 16, 2012. Hide Caption 19 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This image shows what the rover team has determined to be a piece of debris from the spacecraft, possibly shed during the landing. Hide Caption 20 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The rover's scoop contains larger soil particles that were too big to filter through a sample-processing sieve. After a full-scoop sample had been vibrated over the sieve, this portion was returned to the scoop for inspection by the rover's mast camera. Hide Caption 21 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Curiosity cut a wheel scuff mark into a wind-formed ripple at the "Rocknest" site on October 3, 2012. This gave researchers a better opportunity to examine the particle-size distribution of the material forming the ripple. Hide Caption 22 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover NASA's Curiosity rover found evidence for what scientists believe was an ancient, flowing stream on Mars at a few sites, including the rock outcrop pictured here. The key evidence for the ancient stream comes from the size and rounded shape of the gravel in and around the bedrock, according to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/Caltech science team. The rounded shape leads the science team to conclude they were transported by a vigorous flow of water. The grains are too large to have been moved by wind. Hide Caption 23 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Curiosity completed its longest drive to date on September 26, 2012. The rover moved about 160 feet east toward the area known as "Glenelg." As of that day the rover had moved about a quarter-mile from its landing site. Hide Caption 24 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This image shows the robotic arm of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity with the first rock touched by an instrument on the arm. The photo was taken by the rover's right navigation camera. Hide Caption 25 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Researchers used the Curiosity rover's mast camera to take a photo of the Alpha Particle X-Ray Spectrometer. The image was used to see whether it had been caked in dust during the landing. Hide Caption 26 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Researchers also used the mast camera to examine the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the rover to inspect its dust cover and check that its LED lights were functional. In this image, taken on September 7, 2012, the imager is in the center of the screen with its LED on. The main purpose of Curiosity's imager camera is to acquire close-up, high-resolution views of rocks and soil from the Martian surface. Hide Caption 27 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This is the open inlet where powdered rock and soil samples will be funneled down for analysis. The image is made up of eight photos taken on September 11, 2012, by the imager and is used to check that the instrument is operating correctly. Hide Caption 28 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This is the calibration target for the imager. This image, taken on September 9, 2012, shows that the surface of the calibration target is covered with a layor of dust as a result of the landing. The calibration target includes color references, a metric bar graphic, a penny for scale comparison, and a stair-step pattern for depth calibration. Hide Caption 29 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This view of the three left wheels of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity combines two images that were taken by the rover's Mars Hand Lens Imager on September 9, 2012, the 34th day of Curiosity's work on Mars. In the distance is the lower slope of "Mount Sharp." Hide Caption 30 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The penny in this image is part of a camera calibration target on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity. The image was taken by the Mars Hand Lens Imager camera. Hide Caption 31 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The rover captured this mosiac of a rock feature called 'Snake River" on December 20, 2012. Hide Caption 32 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The left eye of the Mast Camera on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity took this image of the rover's arm on September 5, 2012. Hide Caption 33 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Sub-image one of three shows the rover and its tracks after a few short drives. Tracking the tracks will provide information on how the surface changes as dust is deposited and eroded. Hide Caption 34 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Sub-image two shows the parachute and backshell, now in color. The outer band of the parachute has a reddish color. Hide Caption 35 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Sub-image three shows the descent stage crash site, now in color, and several distant spots (blue in enhanced color) downrange that are probably the result of distant secondary impacts that disturbed the surface dust. Hide Caption 36 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover An image released August 27, 2012, was taken with Curiosity rover's 100-millimeter mast camera, NASA says. The image shows "Mount Sharp" on the Martian surface. NASA says the rover will go to this area. Hide Caption 37 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The Mars rover Curiosity moved about 15 feet forward and then reversed about 8 feet during its first test drive on August 22, 2012. The rover's tracks can be seen in the right portion of this panorama taken by the rover's navigation camera. Hide Caption 38 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover NASA tested the steering on its Mars rover Curiosity on August 21, 2012. Drivers wiggled the wheels in place at the landing site on Mars. Hide Caption 39 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Curiosity moved its robot arm on August 20, 2012, for the first time since it landed on Mars. "It worked just as we planned," said JPL engineer Louise Jandura in a NASA press release. This picture shows the 7-foot-long arm holding a camera, a drill, a spectrometer, a scoop and other tools. The arm will undergo weeks of tests before it starts digging. Hide Caption 40 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover With the addition of four high-resolution Navigation Camera, or Navcam, images, taken on August 18, 2012. Curiosity's 360-degree landing-site panorama now includes the highest point on "Mount Sharp" visible from the rover. Mount Sharp's peak is obscured from the rover's landing site by this highest visible point. Hide Caption 41 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This composite image, with magnified insets, depicts the first laser test by the Chemistry and Camera, or ChemCam, instrument aboard NASA's Curiosity Mars rover. The composite incorporates a Navigation Camera image taken prior to the test, with insets taken by the camera in ChemCam. The circular insert highlights the rock before the laser test. The square inset is further magnified and processed to show the difference between images taken before and after the laser interrogation of the rock. Hide Caption 42 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover An updated self-portrait of the Mars rover Curiosity, showing more of the rover's deck. This image is a mosiac compiled from images taken from the navigation camera. The wall of "Gale Crater," the rover's landing site, can be seen at the top of the image. Hide Caption 43 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This image shows what will be the rover's first target with it's chemistry and camera (ChemCam) instrument. The ChemCam will fire a laser at the rock, indicated by the black circle. The laser will cause the rock to emit plasma, a glowing, ionized gas. The rover will then analyze the plasma to determine the chemical composition of the rock. Hide Caption 44 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This image, with a portion of the rover in the corner, shows the wall of "Gale Crater" running across the horizon at the top of the image. Hide Caption 45 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This image, taken from the rover's mast camera, looks south of the landing site toward "Mount Sharp." Hide Caption 46 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover. NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here. Hide Caption 47 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover. NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here. Hide Caption 48 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover Two blast marks from the descent stage's rockets can be seen in the center of this image. Also seen is Curiosity's left side. This picture is a mosaic of images taken by the rover's navigation cameras. Hide Caption 49 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This color full-resolution image showing the heat shield of NASA's Curiosity rover was obtained during descent to the surface of Mars on August 13, 2012. The image was obtained by the Mars Descent Imager instrument known as MARDI and shows the 15-foot diameter heat shield when it was about 50 feet from the spacecraft. Hide Caption 50 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This first image taken by the Navigation cameras on Curiosity shows the rover's shadow on the surface of Mars. Hide Caption 51 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This image comparison shows a view through a Hazard-Avoidance camera on NASA's Curiosity rover before and after the clear dust cover was removed. Both images were taken by a camera at the front of the rover. "Mount Sharp," the mission's ultimate destination, looms ahead. Hide Caption 52 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover The four main pieces of hardware that arrived on Mars with NASA's Curiosity rover were spotted by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter. The High-Resolution Imaging Science Experiment camera captured this image about 24 hours after landing. Hide Caption 53 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This view of the landscape to the north of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity was acquired by the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the first day after landing. Hide Caption 54 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This is one of the first pictures taken by Curiosity after it landed. It shows the rover's shadow on the Martian soil. Hide Caption 55 of 57 Photos: NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover This image shows Curiosity's main science target, "Mount Sharp." The rover's shadow can be seen in the foreground. The dark bands in the distances are dunes. Hide Caption 56 of 57
Last week, Cobrapost, a Noida-based investigative news portal, reported that managers and owners of some media houses in India were willing to advance the Hindutva agenda and polarise voters on religious lines in exchange for lucrative business deals. The investigation has also alleged that following the protests in Kashmir, last year, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) asked Paytm, a mobile wallet company, to provide personal data of its users to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government. Media houses and Paytm have disputed Cobrapost's allegations. Operation 136 (a reference to India's ranking in the World Press Freedom Index), caused an uproar over the state of the media, and reinforced concerns about the safety of user data in the hands of private service providers. CobraPost has also come under fire for obtaining the information through a sting operation. Media organizations the world over have long debated the ethics of reporting under false pretences using hidden cameras. In a written interview, HuffPost India asked Aniruddha Bahal, founder and editor-in-chief of Cobrapost about Operation 136, its fallout, and the continued use of sting operations. What is the key takeaway from Operation 136? That we are a banana republic and no action will be taken against media houses who are not only willing to do paid news but go beyond into criminal territory: aid in polarization of communities, defame political rivals of clients, take compensation in cash. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube What motivated you to carry out this investigation? It just happened organically. No mainstream media organisation would have done it nor anybody else. It takes a bus load of commitment and more. How did you go about it? We didn't want to approach journalists as they don't matter in the current scheme of things. We approached sales people, senior management and owners where possible. It took many months of efforts. Pushp Sharma, the journalist who carried out the sting operation, is accused of extortion and fabricating an RTI response. Why should we trust his reporting? Because, in my judgement, both those are examples of malicious prosecutions. The camera is a mechanical witness. And we oversaw the investigation. Do you believe your piece has had the kind of impact you were hoping for? Depends on how it pans out. The aftermath made the mainstream media look even worse. The attempts to shoot the messenger by certain platforms. But it was huge on social and thats the future. The mainstream wouldn't go against their own. In his opinion piece, Pratap Bhanu Mehta has argued that sting operations rarely produce accountability, only deepen cynicism in our society. What do you think Operation 136 has achieved? That's his opinion. I don't agree with it. Just to give you two examples. The 11 MPs that we showed taking money for asking questions in the Indian parliament were all dismissed. In 2013, our exposé on more than 28 private and public banks led to the KYC (Know Your Customer) reforms you saw eventually and unprecedented fines imposed by the RBI. There is a large section of the media at home and abroad that believes sting operations violate the rules of journalism. The reporter is speaking untruths to get at the truth, which compromises the interaction and the outcome. How do you justify using sting operations? The reporter in this case is forwarding a proposition which they believe to be a genuine proposition and they react to that proposition in ways that shows that they are willing to do paid news. And even go beyond that. Societies and justice systems have to take into account the public good that these revelations bring about vs the other stuff. For me, personally, it's a no brainer but then everybody is entitled to a view. What do you make of the criticism that there is no way of knowing that these alleged conversations with managers and owners of media owners would have resulted in definite action? That's a bogus line of argument. Many houses sent contracts. They were all waiting for the advance to come in. Some even ran bogus stuff just to come in our good books. They all would have run it if we showed them the color of money. Pay and play. Major media houses have either ignored the sting operation or refuted your findings. What role has social media played in communicating your findings to the public? It's easy to ignore. Tougher to confront and analyze, more so, when you are caught with your hand in the cookie jar. But we caught their reality. And nobody wants to be seen naked. Social media has been positive by and large. Has it been enough? Were you hoping for wider engagement? I am content with the traction it got. Are you facing any legal action because of Operation 136? Why would I face? Those who agreed to do criminal things should be the ones worried. Also on HuffPost India:
(CNN) President Donald Trump traveled to Tennessee on Tuesday night to boost the Senate candidacy of Rep. Marsha Blackburn, delivering a speech packed with the over-the-top rhetoric, distortions and just plain oddities that have come to be his trademark. I went through the speech and picked out the 45 most, um, unforgettable lines. They're below. 1. "Do we love Tennessee? We love Tennessee!" Is Tennessee in the hoooooooouse??? 2. "You know Trace won 'The Apprentice.' Trace is a winner." This quote, about country music singer Trace Adkins, does two classic Trumpian things: 1) Remind people about a successful Trump product ("The Apprentice") and 2) tout the importance of being a winner. Trump, as you may have picked up, likes to associate himself with winners. 3. "I love country music." I did not know that! 4. "This is a big crowd of people. This is a lot of people." Another regular feature of any Trump speech is a recognition of the massive crowd size -- whether or not it is massive. 5. "I'm the only politician that produced more than I said I was going to produce, and we're only one and a half years in." It's very hard to fact-check claims like these -- what does he mean by "produced" and how can we quantify it? But, here is a good Time magazine piece on the promises Trump kept (and broke) during his first year as president. 6. "Scott DesJarlais. The most beautiful name in politics." DesJarlais' name might also ring a bell because earlier this decade, his divorce records leaked , showing that he carried on relationships with a number of patients (he was a doctor) and advised his ex-wife to seek abortions -- despite being stridently anti-abortion rights as a public official. 7. "We all kept hearing, 'He can't get to 270.' Remember, you need 270, Electoral College." The 2016 election ended 568 days ago. 8. "I went to Maine. I love Maine." Hello, Portland! Bangor, where you at!! 9. "There they are, right back there. Fake. They are fake. Look how many of them. Oh, boy. That's a lot of people back there. That's a lot of people. Fake news." What's remarkable about this line from Trump is that he is simultaneously a) lambasting the news media as fake and b) touting how many reporters are there to cover him. It's the equivalent of saying: This food is awful -- and such small portions! 10. "There has never been an administration, and even some of our enemies are begrudgingly admitting this, that has done what we have done in the first year and a half." Two things here. First, Trump refers to people who disagree with him as his "enemies." Second, it's hard to calculate whether Trump has done more than any other president -- as I mentioned above. He often touts that he has signed more bills than past presidents as evidence of all he has done. The problem with that claim is that it's not true 11. "Tremendous talent in this room. It's a big room. This stadium. This arena." Big. Huge. YUGE. The point Trump wants to get across is that lots and lots of people are coming to see him. 12. "We truly are making America great again. Look at all those hats." 13. "Who is he? I never heard of this guy. Who is he?" Trump is referring to Phil Bredesen, Blackburn's likely opponent in the fall Senate election. And Bredesen is a former two-term governor and two-term mayor of Nashville. So ... 14. "The MS-13 lover, Nancy Pelosi. She loves MS-13." Trump says this a lot about the House minority leader. It doesn't make it any more true 15. "They are more interested in taking care of criminals than they are in taking care of you." This claim, about Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, seems to also take some liberties with the facts. 16. "Crooked Hillary." Remember that Trump's rallies are a sort of greatest hits album. He ticks through the bits he knows the audience loves. And there is no more beloved call-and-response among Trump's supporters than him calling the 2016 nominee "Crooked Hillary" and them chanting "Lock her up!" Did I mention the election ended 568 days ago? 17. "How do you like the fact they had people infiltrating our campaign? Can you imagine?" 18. "Is there anybody in this big, beautiful arena right now that's infiltrating our campaign?" The arena, in case you hadn't heard, is both "big" and "beautiful." Also, very, very crowded. 19. "In all fairness, I'm no fan of crazy Bernie Sanders. I'm no fan. But I want to tell you, he got screwed." Hey, look, I hate that crazy son of a gun. But, man, Hillary did him dirty! 20. "The only way she filled up the arena was to get Jay-Z. And his language was so filthy that it made me like the most clean-cut human being on earth." Worth noting: The crowd booed when Trump mentioned Jay Z's name. Must not be hip-hop fans! Wait ... 21. "He would stand up there before those crowds. And, by the way, without any musical instruments." Jay Z's greatest crime was not that he supported Hillary Clinton. It was that his music didn't require musical instruments, according to Trump. THE HORROR. 22. "Phil Bredesen supported her. He supported her ideas. Border wall. We have already started doing it." I didn't edit this or splice sentences together. This is exactly what Trump said. He went from attacking Bredesen to saying the words "border wall." Just like that. [looks around in amazement] 23. "You go to the hospital. You have a broken arm. You come out, you are a drug addict with this crap." This feels like an oversimplification of the opioid epidemic. Also of hospitals. And broken arms. 24. "You ever have second thoughts about something?" Literally every second of every day. 25. "I have property in California that I don't care about anymore." Same. 26. "I can tell a contractor. I can smell a contractor, believe it or not." Tell me more ... 27. "Our laws are the worst laws of any country anywhere in the world." ... said the President of the United States. 28. "Nobody leaves in the Senate." He's not wrong ... 29. "In the end, in the end, Mexico is going to pay for the wall. I'm just telling you that." "President @realDonaldTrump: NO. Mexico will NEVER pay for a wall. Not now, not ever. Sincerely, Mexico (all of us)." -- Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, last night 30. "They are going to pay for the wall and they are going to enjoy it. OK? They are going to enjoy it." "President @realDonaldTrump: NO. Mexico will NEVER pay for a wall. Not now, not ever. Sincerely, Mexico (all of us)." -- Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, last night 31. "These are people different from me in the sense that they want to run. I don't want to run. They want to run." The Trump theory of exercise is one of the least appreciated parts of his life philosophy. "Other than golf, he considers exercise misguided, arguing that a person, like a battery, is born with a finite amount of energy," writes the New Yorker's Evan Osnos in a Trump profile in May 2017. 32. "And they go and they work hard and they want to look good." "I get exercise. I mean, I walk, I this, I that. I run over to a building next door. I get more exercise than people think." -- Donald J. Trump 33. "He was working those tears. He was trying so hard." In which the president of the United States accuses the Senate minority leader of fake-crying. 34. "You won't have a Second Amendment if the Democrats take over. You won't have a Second Amendment." A regular Trump claim that has been debunked time and time again. 35. "This is why we call the bloodthirsty MS-13 gang members exactly the name I used last week. What was the name? [Crowd: "Animals!"] Trump has turned a controversy over his referring to people -- even gang members -- as "animals" into a call-and-response with the crowd at a campaign rally. This is politics in 2018. 36. "Phil whatever-the-hell-his-name-is." It's "B-r-e-d-e-s-e-n." 37. "Democrats running for office, many of them are saying great things about me." [narrator voice] They're not. 38. "We have pride in our history." This is a very interesting line. What is Trump referring to as "our history"? And who? 39. "I want it to be called the tax cut cut cut cut plan. Four cuts." Admittedly, if the tax cut law had been named the "Tax Cut Cut Cut Cut Plan," that would have been something. 40. "And then early in the morning, somebody turned their hand in the wrong direction. [crowd boos] That cost our country a lot." The "somebody" is John McCain, who voted against the Republican effort to repeal and replace Obamacare. McCain, who the crowd booed, is currently fighting brain cancer 41. "He said every president, Bush. Bush, $7 trillion in the Middle East. Great. Great. Great investment. A lot of death. Death and blood and money." Trump isn't a big fan of the Bush family. This may be news to you if you have spent the past three years living on another planet. 42. "They think he is so nasty and so tough that I have to hold him back. OK? Pretty great." This is Trump on his national security adviser John Bolton. And, as Trump makes clear, he loves that people think Bolton is too tough. Loves it. 43. "So beautiful. Leather. Most expensive leather money can buy. You know. Thing probably cost $2,000." "Ode to a Leather Binder," by Donald John Trump. 44. "It's totally beautiful. The finest stones, the finest marbles, the best location." Donald Trump on the new American embassy in Jerusalem. Or, Donald Trump on the new Trump hotel. You decide. 45. "We have triumphed over evil like nobody has seen before." The best evils. The biggest evils. Believe me.
(CNN) If you're in your mid-40s and haven't had your colon checked, it might be time. The American Cancer Society's newly updated guidelines for colon and rectal cancer screening recommend that adults at average risk get screened starting at age 45 instead of 50, as previously advised. The updated guidelines come on the heels of what seems to be a rise in colorectal cancer among younger adults. Those at higher risk include African Americans, Alaska Natives, and people with a family history or a personal history of colon or rectal polyps; risk factors such as these could require screening earlier Published in CA: A Cancer Journal for Clinicians on Wednesday, the updated guidelines also indicate that there are six screening test options for adults, ranging from noninvasive stool tests to visual exams like colonoscopy, depending on the preference of the patient and availability of the test. Colorectal cancer, which includes both colon and rectal cancers, is the third most common cause of cancer-related deaths in the world, according to the World Health Organization In the United States, colorectal cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer-related deaths among cancers that affect both men and women, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Some studies suggest that the rates of colorectal cancer deaths are climbing among American adults younger than 55. After declining overall from 1970 to 2004, colon and rectal cancer mortality rates among 20- to 54-year-olds in the United States increased by 1% annually from 2004 to 2014, according to a study published last year in the medical journal JAMA "Behind these numbers are real people and real faces, and all of us in the colorectal cancer world and all the gastroenterologists and all the oncologists have been seeing more and more young people who develop this disease," said Dr. Richard Wender, chief cancer control officer at the American Cancer Society , who oversaw the development of the new guidelines. "In people born more recently, they're at four times the risk for rectal cancer than people born in the '50s (at the same age), for example, and double the risk of colon cancer," he said. "It's what we call a birth cohort effect. Nobody knows why really clearly, and that's a big area of interest, but nobody's questioning that it's happening." Six screening test options To make the updated guidelines, researchers conducted a systematic review of published studies on colorectal cancer screening strategies. The researchers also commissioned a microsimulation modeling study involving a model called MISCAN , which simulates colorectal cancer incidence and mortality and estimates risk factors and the impact of screening and treatment practices. The researchers' new modeling study was an extension of analyses conducted for the US Preventive Services Task Force recommendations, and it assessed the potential risk and benefit of various colorectal screening strategies among black and white men and women in the United States. Based on their review and that simulation modeling, the researchers identified efficient strategies for screening starting at age 45. The updated guidelines also noted that there is wide variation in the costs of those screening options, depending on patient insurance plans, ranging from around $30 for a take-home fecal immunochemical test to thousands of dollars for a colonoscopy. In a written statement Wednesday, the American Cancer Society's Cancer Action Network, the nonpartisan advocacy affiliate of the American Cancer Society, said that consumers should understand what their individual insurance policy will cover should they begin screening at age 45, rather than age 50. "Consumers should also understand that there are many screening options, and they may find certain screening options more affordable than others, particularly when faced with potential out-of-pocket expenses," the statement said. JUST WATCHED Why is health care in the US so expensive? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why is health care in the US so expensive? 02:15 America's Health Insurance Plans spokeswoman Cathryn Donaldson said in a statement Wednesday, "Health plans cover most needed screenings, including mammograms and colonoscopies, often at no additional cost to the patient. Insurance providers consider available evidence, clinical guidelines and recommendations from organizations such as the American Cancer Society to understand when preventive screenings are needed. "Whether or not you need a screening will depend on your age, medical history and other risk factors. When a doctor recommends a screening because of such risk factors, it is usually covered," said the association, which represents companies providing health care coverage and other related services to Americans. Outside of the cost and the frequency in which a test is recommended to be done, "all these tests are approximately equal in their value and can be offered," Wender said. "We know from trials that if you offer a choice between colonoscopy and a less-invasive test, that more people will opt to be screened, which is our goal in the end," he said. "The evidence is now absolutely clear, and I can't emphasize how carefully this was done. It took us two years of work to provide a compelling argument and evidence that the screening age for everyone should begin at age 45, not age 50." What explains the rise in colorectal cancer? Time will tell whether other leading health organizations follow in the American Cancer Society's footsteps with recommending screening for adults younger than 50. Additionally, more research could shed light on why there has been a rise in colorectal cancer among these younger adults, said Dr. George Chang, chief of colorectal surgery at MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, who was not involved in the updated guidelines. "The rates of screening right now under the age of 50 are negligible. Therefore, what we've observed with the rising incidence is not simply a result of detection bias," Chang said. "This appears to be a real phenomenon." He added that he has some ideas regarding what factors could be driving this rise, as "there are a number of things that have changed over the past several decades that have to do with exposures and lifestyle." "We know that obesity's associated with an increased incidence of many cancers, including colorectal cancer, and the obesity epidemic remains an important and growing problem in the US. So that may be one associated factor," Chang said. Other possible factors could include sedentary lifestyles, environmental exposures and diets high in processed foods, he said. "While we have not identified the causal factor, it is likely that all of these factors contribute to this rising incidence," he said. A separate report released last week by the World Cancer Research Fund and the American Institute for Cancer Research highlighted strong evidence that being physically active and eating whole grains and foods high in fiber, along with other healthy habits, can decrease the risk of colorectal cancer. Consuming red meat, processed meat and alcoholic beverages, among other factors, could increase the risk of colorectal cancer For any adult, no matter how old, Chang said that paying attention to your body and bowel habits are important for tracking your overall health -- and that alerting your doctor to any changes is key. "Even if you're younger, if you're noticing that there's a change in your bowel habits or your stools and that something isn't right, then see your doctor," he said. "That's the public health statement, which is, pay attention to your bowels, and seek medical care if things don't seem right, if there's blood in your stools or your bowel habits change suddenly." 'This gives us a real opportunity' Dr. Nilofer Saba Azad, associate professor of oncology at Johns Hopkins Medicine in Baltimore, agrees with the newly updated guidelines. "If you take into account the fact that people develop colon cancer or rectal cancer over many years, and that there's a step wise progression from having no abnormalities to then having polyps and then developing cancer, this gives us a real opportunity to stop people from ever developing cancer by moving screening ages younger," said Azad, who was not involved with the guidelines. "It's not just that you would catch the younger people with cancer but that you would actually catch the younger people with just a polyp that can be removed at the time of colonoscopy, and they never get a cancer. So it's preventative, not just early diagnosis," she said, adding that she thinks the benefits of screening younger outweigh the risks. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Such risks include false-negative or false-positive results , as well as rare complications or feelings of anxiety with more invasive testing approaches, such as colonoscopy. Yet "there are many ways you can screen for colon cancer beyond colonoscopy, and we can find a way no matter how squeamish people are," Azad said.
Hong Kong (CNN) Beijing's push to isolate Taiwan is gathering pace, with two of the island's few remaining allies switching allegiance to China in the past month. Taiwan isn't just taking heat from China diplomatically. Multi-national companies are being pressured over how they describe Taiwan, with Beijing insisting they follow its line that the island is an integral part of China. Shows of force by the Chinese military in the Taiwan Strait, the narrow strip of water that divides the two, are also becoming more commonplace. This ratcheting up of tensions between China and the self-governed, democratic island opens up another fault line for Washington in its dealings with Beijing, with the Trump administration already at odds with China over trade, North Korea and the South China Sea. Washington has signaled closer support for Taiwan and a high-profile demonstration of solidarity comes in June when the United States opens a new complex to house its de facto embassy in Taipei that's three times the size of the original building. Here's what you need to know about the potential flashpoint. How has China been piling on the pressure? While Beijing has been chipping away at Taiwan's shallow bench of diplomatic allies for years, the loss of two -- Burkina Faso and the Dominican Republic -- in the space of a month is unprecedented. Taiwan accuses Beijing of "dollar diplomacy," enticing countries to switch allegiance with cash or other incentives -- a strategy that's become easier as China's grown richer and its pockets deeper. Beijing has also focused its attention on companies that don't toe its line on Taiwan. Some 44 airlines were recently warned not to list Taiwan separately from China on their websites and given a deadline to comply, a move the US government has described on May 5 as "Orwellian nonsense." Most recently, Japanese retailer Muji has been fined for coat-hanger packaging that described Taiwan as a country. China has also prevented Taiwan from attending, even as an observer, the annual meeting of the World Health Organization's decision making body for two consecutive years, a move that excludes the island's 23 million people from information that helps prevent outbreak of global diseases. No target is too small. In the small Australian town of Rockhampton, tiny fish-shaped Taiwan flags featured on a children's art project displayed in public were painted over, reportedly at the behest of Beijing. What's China's goal? China and Taiwan -- officially the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China, respectively -- separated in 1949 following the Communist victory in a civil war that saw the Nationalists flee to the island. The two sides have been governed separately since, though a shared cultural and linguistic heritage mostly endures -- with Mandarin spoken as the official language in both places. Bringing Taiwan back to the fold has eluded China's Communist leaders for nearly seven decades and would be a huge achievement for President Xi Jinping, who now has the option to rule for life. Nicaraguan students wave Taiwanese flags to welcome three Taiwanese Navy warships at Corinto port, some 149 kilometers northwest of Managua, on April 9, 2018. Nicaragua is one Taiwan's few diplomatic allies. Chong-Pin Lin, a former deputy defense minister in Taiwan, said he believes reunification is still a long-term goal for Xi. For now, he says, Beijing is focused on deterring Taiwan from making a declaration of independence -- something that would be a huge embarrassment for Xi. "Beijing is skillful at applying psychological pressure on Taiwan," he says. President Tsai Ing-wen's Democratic Progressive Party has traditionally leaned in favor of formal independence from China, compared to Taiwan's other main political party, the Kuomintang, as the Nationalists are known locally. Although Tsai has been "very prudent" since being elected in 2016 and tried to restrain the more radical wing of her party, says Lin, Beijing may feel that she will look to appeal to her base as mid-term elections near. However, it's not just about the stick for Beijing. China has also been encouraging integration. In February, China's Taiwan Affairs Officer revealed 31 new measures to promote exchange and cooperate with Taipei, many of which make it easier for those from Taiwan to work, do business and study in mainland China, including teachers and doctors. View of the facade of Taiwan's Embassy in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, on May 1, 2018. How does the US fit in? Despite their unofficial nature, Taiwan's ties with the US, which provides arms to the island under the Taiwan Relations Act, appear strong. Defying strong pressure from China, Congress passed the Taiwan Travel Act, which US President Donald Trump signed into law in March, by unanimous vote in both houses. It aims to make it easier for US officials to visit the island and Taiwan officials to visit the US. Another bi-partisan bill aimed at ensuring Taiwan's space in the world stage isn't diminished further was launched on Friday by Republican Sen. Core Gardner and Democratic Sen. Edward Markey. "This bipartisan legislation will help ensure that major international organizations do not turn a blind eye to our ally Taiwan simply because of China's bullying tactics," the senators said. And when the Trump administration opens the new American Institute in Taiwan, as the unofficial embassy is called, on June 12, it's possible that high-ranking members of the Trump administration will attend. However, in Taiwan, some analysts fear that an erratic and unpredictable President Trump may use Taiwan as a bargaining chip to extract concessions in his dealings with China on North Korea or trade. "Taiwan-US relations are pretty good right now, but we don't know what the future holds," said Lin. Director Kin Moy of the American Institute in Taiwan, Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen, AmCham Taipei Chairman Albert Chang and Alex Wong, US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and the Picific, toast during a banquet in Taipei on March 21, 2018. What's Taiwan doing about it? Taiwan has long been used to operating in China's shadow. In 1971, the Republic of China was forced to withdraw from the United Nations after a motion was passed recognizing the People's Republic as the only lawful representative of China to the UN. Many other countries followed suit, including the United States, which switched diplomatic recognition to Beijing 1979 but has maintained unofficial ties with Taipei. Its unofficial relationships, especially with the United States, ultimately carry greater weight than its smaller, formal allies. Taiwan has representative offices, which act as de facto embassies, in more than 100 cities and a passport issued in T aiwan allows visa-free access to 148 countries, compared to 70 for China. Aged anti-landing barricades are positioned on a beach facing China on the Taiwanese island of Kinmen which, at points lies only a few miles from China. Many people in Taiwan barely bat an eyelid when a diplomatic ally is lost -- seeing the money the government spends on maintaining and cultivating these small countries as a waste. What will be key is if Beijing's pressure has an impact on the island's more powerful allies, like the US, EU or Japan or on the companies that do business there. As Beijing has ramped up pressure, Taiwan's government has been more vocal in calling out Beijing's tactics. It has publicly c riticized some companies who have bowed to Beijing's pressure. And Tsai warned of a red line in a statement issued last week in the wake of Burkina Faso's decision to ditch Taiwan. "China's efforts to undermine our national sovereignty are already challenging Taiwan society's bottom line. This we will no longer tolerate," said President Tsai. "We will simply redouble our resolve and continue to engage with the world."
Mirian G., an asylum seeker from Honduras, was separated from her 18-month-old child for more than two months. She is part of the American Civil Liberties Union's class-action lawsuit challenging the government's practice of separating children from their families. Since Mirian is currently seeking asylum, she does not wish to disclose her full name for security reasons. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. (CNN) I came to the United States on February 20, 2018, to seek political asylum. As I walked across the international bridge, which connects Brownsville, Texas, to Matamoros, Mexico, I felt fear rising in my throat. I was walking toward an uncertain future. At the same time, I was leaving behind a life of known danger. I had fled my home country of Honduras with my 18-month-old son after government violence threatened our lives. Now, with my baby in my arms, I was approaching a US port of entry to seek refuge. I knew that the asylum process could take a long time, and that it was possible that my son and I would be detained while we waited for a judge to decide our futures. I never could have imagined they would take him away from me. But soon I discovered how the US immigration system truly works. After I told the officers that I was here to seek asylum, they brought me into a room and asked me questions about why I had come to the United States. I told them of the danger that I had faced in Honduras -- resulting from a military crackdown against protests following a contested presidential election. Each day people were disappearing; I fled just after the military tear-gassed our home. I turned over documents that showed both my identity and my son's, including my Honduran ID card, his birth certificate and his birth record from the hospital -- and the latter two documents listed me as his mother. The officers kept all these documents, and they never asked any questions about whether he was my son. We spent that night in a facility -- it would be the last night that my son would sleep in my arms for months. When we woke up the next morning, immigration officers brought us outside where there were two government cars waiting. They said that I would be going to one place, and my son would go to another. I asked why repeatedly, but they didn't give me a reason. The officers forced me to strap my son into a car seat. As I looked for the buckles, my hands shook, and my son started to cry. Without giving me even a moment to comfort him, the officer shut the door. I could see my son through the window, looking back at me -- waiting for me to get in the car with him -- but I wasn't allowed to. He was screaming as the car drove away. I was brought to Port Isabel Detention Center in Los Fresnos, Texas. I could barely move or speak or think knowing that my son had never spent time without me before, and now he was alone in a separate government facility. The next day, I was told that he had been taken to a federally-sponsored foster home in San Antonio, Texas, but I wasn't told who was taking care of him, how long he would be there or when I would see him next. I was given a phone number to call, but I had no access to a phone. After two days, I was transferred to Laredo Detention Center, where I was able to call my sister for help. She was able to see my son on a video phone, but I was not able to see him or receive any photos. My son is too young to speak, but at least they could have let him hear my voice. I didn't know if he would forget it. In those desperate days, after weeks in detention, I was at a breaking point. Thankfully, I met two women -- Laura and Maria -- also in detention, who helped me find strength. They told me that I had to make it through this separation for my son, that I had to get out in order to find him. While being transferred to three different detention centers around Texas, I prayed, cleaned, took English classes -- anything I could to keep my mind focused on the possibility of getting my son back and not on the pain of losing him. I asked God for help to keep my spirit from breaking, and he answered. On April 3, an immigration judge found that I had a credible asylum claim, and I was released a few weeks later. I was then able to make a request through the Office of Refugee Resettlement that my son be given back. On May 2, my son was brought to me after spending two months and 11 days with strangers. It was an indescribable, uncontainable joy to hold him. I couldn't stop kissing his face. The entire time we were separated, my son was the reason that I held on and finally, he was there, like a vision. This May, I passed my first Mother's Day in the United States with my son. I am proof that parents who are legally seeking asylum are being separated from their children for seemingly no reason. My heart goes out to the other mothers who are still aching for their children. I pray for them to have strength, and that they encounter people who can help carry their spirits, like the other women in the detention facilities did for me. In the face of such cruelty, it made all the difference.
It happens every single month, without fail. You start to feel moody, low and irritable, and you notice a big increase in hunger (and your cravings for chocolate and ice cream). And when you finally get your period, all you can think about is getting into your PJs and eating more comfort food. For most women, these sudden changes in appetite and mood are normal, something we listen and adapt to. But why do we feel more hungry around our period, really? We automatically think it has everything to do with hormones, but it's actually much more than that. "There's certainly some evidence that women do get hungrier and crave sugar and sweet things, primarily chocolate, leading up to their period in the premenstrual or luteal phase of their cycle," Dr Clare Ballingall, a GP and chair of RACGP Tasmania, told The Huffington Post Australia. There are many theories as to why this happens, Ballingall said. "We do know the hormone changes that occur, so oestrogen and progesterone go up and then they drop off just before the period, and this is a theory for increased hunger," Ballingall explained. "The other thing is we know that women possibly become a bit more responsive to insulin in that premenstrual phase. Some women can experience mild alterations in their blood sugar and cravings for chocolate, that's a possible theory. "Women also often get irritable and cranky premenstrually, and there's a theory that somehow eating chocolate increases serotonin and dopamine, which are involved with helping 'prop up' mood." Nutritionist Pip Reed agrees, saying that the occurrence of PMS or PMT symptoms can lead us to reach for foods which boost our energy and mood. "Often this hunger is for more carb and sugar heavy foods as we may find the rise in oestrogen increases PMS symptoms, including irritability, stress, anxiety. So we're therefore looking for foods that will give us a quick energy boost," Reed told HuffPost Australia. "Interestingly, the main paper I looked at, which had the most women involved in, there was no increase in cravings for salt and fast food in that same period. Women eat more leading up to that period, and they sleep less, which is interesting," Ballingall added. Cuddle up with your doggo and be kind to yourself. Beyond physiological reasons for increased hunger around menstruation, Ballingall also said there are psychological and cultural factors at play here. "Psychology Today theorised that culturally we've reinforced chocolate as being a way to deal with stress, through media and subliminal advertising," Ballingall said. "They suggested that in a society we, as women, are told to avoid fat and sugar, and that we're all guilted into having this certain body type image and we must maintain that. "But somehow it's culturally acceptable for one time a month to just let yourself go and reward yourself with chocolate as you're feeling a bit crap because it's your period. Culturally we accept that, where any other time of the month it's unacceptable to binge on chocolate." There's also the fact that treating ourselves to chocolate, getting in our comfies and cosying up in bed with a feel-good movie, really does make us feel good. We're allowing ourselves to relax and indulge in foods we often ban or restrict ourselves of. "Absolutely. Chocolate makes you feel good, that's a proven thing. That melting feeling in your mouth, the sugar hit, the energy hit," Ballingall said. Given that women make up around 50 percent of the world's population, there is surprisingly little scientific research into women's health issues surrounding the menstrual cycle. "There's not actually a lot of journal work done around this area suggesting why this happens, which I think is remarkable," Ballingall said. Gentle exercise can help reduce PMS and PMT. If you are experiencing PMS symptoms and increased hunger and food cravings, try these four tips. 1. Be kind to yourself If you're feeling low, moody and hungry, instead of resenting yourself for it, be kind to yourself. "I have a lot of women who get really bad PMT. There's lots of issues dealing with that," Ballingall said. "I reinforce that cultural message of: don't beat yourself up about it because there's a lot of things women feel guilty about anyway." If chocolate and ice cream is what you want and they make you feel better, then have them in appropriate amounts. "Everything in moderation is fine. To calorie restrict on your premenstrual phase is a miserable thing to do," Ballingall said. "Just generally be kind to yourself more than anything. There's still this 'periods are bad', 'periods are taboo' and 'periods are somehow getting rid of the toxins', and people still believe all that. Try to normalise it as much as possible." Do things that make YOU feel good. 2. Do gentle exercise and eat well Along with that delicious chocolate, try to do gentle exercise like walking or yoga, and remember that eating healthily will actually make you feel better. "I spend a lot of time talking to women about eating well and doing a bit of exercise, especially in the premenstrual period," Ballingall said. "For those who want the treat but still want to eat healthy, choose high fibre natural foods such as dates and walnuts, raw nut treats like caramel slice, and add cinnamon to breakfast and afternoon yoghurt snacks for blood sugar stabilisation," Reed told HuffPost Australia. "Choose dark chocolate varieties over milk for antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties. Pana Chocolate or Loving Earth are made with coconut nectar and taste amazing." Focus on choosing whole grain versions of refined pastas, breads and snacks. "[Choose] whole grain versions such as quinoa, sourdough, rye, amaranth or buckwheat instead which contain more nutrients, are high fibre and won't cause blood sugar spikes," Reed said. "Also make sure you have good healthy fats and protein such as avocado, nuts, seeds, fish and chia seeds to fill you up and decrease inflammation." Make sure you fill up on whole foods (and lots of tea). 3. See a GP If your PMS or PMT symptoms are affecting your day-to-day life, including your concentration or your mood to the point where you feel depressed, see your GP for help. "A lot of women get really bad PMT. Looking at their mood, we sometimes offer a cyclical antidepressant where some women take them in the two weeks leading up to their period and then stop," Ballingall said. "That's accepted treatment now for people who have true PMT which is interfering with their lives." 4. Don't compare yourself to other women The worst thing you can do is compare yourself to that other woman who doesn't get PMS or the friend who glides through their period without any weight gain, increased hunger or pain. "That's where our job is hard -- there's no one size fits all," Ballingall said. "My endeavour every day is for them to take on one simple healthy eating and lifestyle tip, whether it's on their period or not. But also to be kind to themselves." Click below to follow HuffPost Australia on Snapchat!
It took Sara Beckel a year to recover from postpartum depression. "It was debilitating on all fronts," Beckel told HuffPost Canada. "If brexanolone had been around, I would have said 'sign me up!'" As a certified labour doula and founder of Family First Doula Service & Maternal Wellness in Regina, Sask., Beckel has been following the progress of brexanolone, the world's first postpartum depression drug developed by biopharmaceutial company Sage Therapeutics. "The pain and suffering was so great that the chance to escape the daily torture of postpartum depression would have been life changing," Beckel said. "A drug like brexanolone would have given me my life back that I feel was stolen right out from under me." Postpartum depression is common and can be debilitating Approximately 20 per cent of women experience postpartum depression (PPD) affecting 76,000 women in Canada and 400,000 women in the United States annually. PPD results in adverse effects for the mother as well as the child and symptoms include frequent feelings of sadness, worthlessness, hopelessness, guilt, anxiety, irritability and/or anger. Currently, when a woman presents with postpartum depression symptoms, a doctor might prescribe her an antidepressant which could take up to six weeks to take effect, if at all. She may have to switch to a different antidepressant and start the process all over again. But in brexanolone trials, women with moderate to severe postpartum depression who were given an IV infusion over the course of 2.5 days revealed dramatic improvements within 24 hours that lasted for 30 days, the length of time researchers monitored the women for their study. What is brexanolone? The drug is a synthetic form of allopregnanolone, a hormone which increases in women during pregnancy then drops dramatically following child birth. The decline in hormones following labour — including estrogen, progesterone, and in particular allopregnanolone — and its adverse effect on the brain's neurotransmitters in some women is one of the prevailing theories into the cause of postpartum depression. Though the mechanism of action isn't entirely known, providing brexanolone to women suffering from postpartum depression works to help fill the gap created by the sudden loss in allopregnanolone. We believe in screening and diagnosis of #ppd – for the sake of the mother, child and family. #mmhmatters #ThisIsSage — Sage Therapeutics (@SageBiotech) May 24, 2018 "The idea that you could potentially have a drug that could have women treated very quickly within days, which is very different than what's currently available would be a paradigm shift that would be extremely exciting for the field," Brexanolone Academic Principal Investigator Samantha Meltzer-Brody, who is also the director of the Perinatal Psychiatry Program at The University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, told HuffPost Canada. "From a women's mental health perspective, that's a big deal." The drug is currently under review by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and if approved, could be on the market as early as 2019. Brexanolone also looks promising in Europe, having received the Priority Medicines designation from the European Medicines Agency, a designation to "enhance support for the development of medicines that target an unmet medical need." So, when is it coming to Canada? "We are not providing specific guidance on our global regulatory strategy," Sage Therapeutics Senior Director Jeff Boyle told Huffpost Canada, "but we are taking a thoughtful, step-wise approach that supports broad registration for this potentially transformative medicine." Simone Vigod, a psychiatrist and lead of the Reproductive Life Stages Program at Women's College Hospital in Toronto, has been closely following brexanolone's progress. She believes the science has been promising, though she would like to see more research on it before its use becomes widespread. "Samples in the published randomized trial were small, so it would be useful to see replication," Vigod told HuffPost Canada. "Also, it will be important to see the results for women with less severe depression with postpartum onset, and whether there will be benefit for women who have postpartum depression but for whom the onset was not perinatal." Results so far have been promising Results of Sage Therapeutic's "significant and clinically meaningful" phase two findings involving 21 women were published last summer in The Lancet. Women less than six months postpartum with severe postpartum depression were randomly assigned to receive either brexanolone or a placebo treatment for 60 hours. Women were not permitted to breastfeed while receiving treatment. Using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), researchers found that in the women who received brexanolone, scores decreased by 21 points. In women who received the placebo, HAM-D scores decreased by eight points. Side effects included dizziness and drowsiness. The results of two phase three brexanolone trials were recently revealed. In the first trial of 100 women with moderate PPD, brexanolone was shown to reduce HAM-D scores by 14.2 points versus 12 points in women who were given a placebo. In the second trial of 138 women with severe PPD, brexanolone was shown to reduce HAM-D scores by 19.9 points with a low dose of the drug and by 17.7 points with a high dose of the drug versus 14 points in women who were given a placebo. Common side effects included headaches, dizziness, drowsiness, and infusion site pain. "Larger numbers will increase confidence around safety, including implications for safety in lactation," Vigod said. "Novel, safe, effective treatments that are accessible and acceptable to postpartum women would go a long way to improving health of mothers, children and their families." "It could be life changing" After going through postpartum depression, Beckel became a staunch maternal mental health advocate and is one of the lead organizers behind the first annual Our Mothers, Our Future conference in Saskatoon. While she hopes Canada will one day approve brexanlone, Beckel is concerned about potential challenges in administering the drug as well as cost. It's been estimated that the cost could amount to $15,000 to $20,000 per treatment. "Not having facilities set up to room mom and baby in Canada while the mother is being treated is a big challenge and if approved, would it be covered completely? If not, I'm assuming the cost would be extremely high, making it unavailable to most," Beckel said. "On the flip side, it could mean everything to a suffering mom. It could be life changing. This new drug would eliminate the need to chase down the right medication," Beckel said. "It took me a year to start feeling better. That's a lot of wasted time that my kids didn't have with a healthy mom." Also on HuffPost:
On Monday night in New York City, some of the biggest celebrities and models will rub shoulders at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s annual Costume Institute Gala, aka fashion’s biggest night. Among the most anticipated guests are Amal Clooney and Rihanna, who, along with Donatella Versace, are the event’s honorary co-chairs. Seeing the three of them together on the red carpet is like seeing the fashion world’s equivalent of the Holy Trinity. Versace will almost certainly be dressed in one of her own designs, as she often is, but we can’t help but wonder if Rih and Amal will be decked out in Versace, too. We have to admit we’d love to see them rocking some matching gold Versace chainmail or maybe even some decadent crosses, given this year’s Catholicism theme. They’ve worn pieces from the Italian label in the past ― albeit in very different ways, to fit their very different styles ― so it is possible. Check out their best Versace fashion moments from the recent past:
Roseanne Barr is blaming Ambien for her racist tweets and telling her fans, "I'm not a racist, just an idiot who made a bad joke." Sanofi, the maker of Ambien, responded with a statement full of shade: "While all pharmaceutical treatments have side effects, racism is not a known side effect of any Sanofi medication." Barr's Ambien explanation was part of an hours-long tweetstorm reacting to ABC's cancellation of her hit show "Roseanne." She had said on Tuesday that she was leaving Twitter, but she just can't seem to log off. She zig-zagged between apologizing for her foul Twitter behavior and retweeting memes that made her apology sound insincere. She retweeted fans who portrayed her as the victim of a liberal media double standard. All told, she posted more than 100 times. Later in the day, President Trump joined her on Twitter. His first public reaction to the show's cancellation was a tweet criticizing Disney CEO Bob Iger. Related: Trump breaks silence on Roseanne Barr scandal Trump and Barr have been prominent supporters of each other. They both delight in attacking Democrats. In this case, Barr was fired for her Tuesday tweet about former Obama aide Valerie Jarrett. But she kept it up on Wednesday, retweeting photos of Jarrett side by side with an ape. It was Barr's earlier tweet about Jarrett that caused outrage and ultimately led to the show's cancellation. In a response to a comment about Jarrett, Barr had said: "Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj." Barr still claims she was just joking when she compared Jarrett to "Planet of the Apes" and the Muslim Brotherhood in a tweet on Tuesday morning. In a reply to one of her fans, she said "I honestly thought she was Jewish and Persian-ignorant of me for sure, but...i did." She also said she had been on Ambien, a medication used to treat insomnia, at the time. She tweeted, "guys I did something unforgiveable so do not defend me. It was 2 in the morning and I was ambien tweeting -- it was memorial day too -- i went 2 far & do not want it defended -- it was egregious Indefensible. I made a mistake I wish I hadn't but...don't defend it please." She cited Ambien again in a later tweet, saying, "Not giving excuses for what I did(tweeted) but I've done weird stuff while on ambien -- cracked eggs on the wall at 2am etc." Oddly, she later deleted all of her references to the medication. Nevertheless, Ambien became the #1 trending topic on Twitter on Wednesday morning, leading to Sanofi's public rebuke. Barr's explanation was deemed laughable. "I have only taken Ambien once ... but I don't remember one of the side-effects being racism," CNN's John Berman tweeted. Related: The inside story of how ABC fired Roseanne Barr In one of her other deleted tweets, Barr said "I'm sorry 4 my tweet, AND I will also defend myself as well as talk to my followers. so, go away if u don't like it. I will handle my sadness the way I want to. I'm tired of being attacked & belittled more than other comedians who have said worse." Some of her replies to fans clearly expressed how she feels. At one point she said she believes she was fired because of fears over a potential boycott of the show's advertisers. She also lashed out at co-stars Michael Fishman and Sara Gilbert. "You throw me under the bus. nice!" she said in a tweet directed at Fishman. Her Twitter account had a manic feel throughout the morning. Through her selection of retweets, Barr implied that she was fired over her support for President Trump. One of the posts she shared said, inexplicably, "they brought the show back so they could inevitably cancel the show when she said something they didn't like." But then she deleted her retweet of that post. Another retweet, still up as of 7 a.m. ET, quoted Herman Cain on Fox saying "I believe they were looking for a reason to cancel #Roseanne and here's why. Even though the show was a ratings success, forces within ABC didn't like the fact that her conservative defense of certain things was so popular." i honestly thought she was Jewish and Persian-ignorant of me for sure, but...i did. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 30, 2018 Barr also continued to tweet about George Soros, a liberal donor who has been painted as the villain in many right-wing conspiracy theories. One message she re-tweeted on Wednesday falsely accused the Hungary-born Jewish billionaire of collaborating with the Nazis. Barr also said her firing "worked out" because she "would leave when they started to try to censor me." i think i know what really happened. It has made me mad, but as I told u-i would leave when they started to try to censor me, so it all worked out — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 30, 2018 After a head-spinning 24 hours, there are several outstanding questions: -- What will ABC schedule Tuesdays at 8 p.m. this fall in place of "Roseanne?" -- Is there any possibility of a "Roseanne" sitcom without Barr? A way to keep the cast and crew together in some way? -- Will there be any measurable backlash from her fans? -- Will President Trump comment at all? -- What will Barr do next? Tom Werner, her longtime producing partner, told Deadline.com that he supported ABC's decision. He said he hoped "Roseanne seeks the help she so clearly needs."
Story highlights Look for low- or reduced-sodium versions of your favorite foods More than 70% of sodium in an average American diet comes in packaged, prepared and restaurant foods This is part two of a two-part feature. Part 1: Curbing salt intake could add years to your life (CNN) We've covered the many health reasons to curb your salt intake. But let's talk about how, especially when it's hidden in many of the foods we love. When cutting back on sodium, it's important to start slowly, as going cold turkey can shock your taste buds. "If you try to make chicken soup with no salt, you will notice the difference," said Sonya Angelone, a registered dietitian who specializes in cardiovascular nutrition and is the media spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Instead, start with half of the amount of salt you would typically use. You can also look for low- or reduced-sodium versions of your favorite foods, or make your own versions, like homemade spaghetti sauce. For example, canned tomato sauce can have 1,000 milligrams of sodium per serving. "But canned tomatoes have about 300 milligrams, and tomato paste has very little sodium -- so you can just add water or low-sodium chicken broth" to make a sauce, Angelone said. Using herbs and spices can help bring out flavor in foods without salt. Spice blends without salt can come in handy during cooking. You might use a Mexican blend with cumin, chili pepper and smoked paprika for chili, while blends containing rosemary, thyme and oregano might be well suited for Italian dishes, Angelone explained. When dining out, ask for steamed vegetables and fish, and skip the sauces. And when food shopping, compare the sodium values of similar foods. "Some rolls can have 400 milligrams; other ones can have 200," Angelone said. Breads and rolls are top sources of sodium in the US diet, according to the American Heart Association , along with cold cuts and cured meats, pizza, soup, sandwiches and poultry. Read More
Story highlights Cheese contains important nutrients, but calories and sodium can add up Experts suggest using it as a flavor enhancer rather than the focus of a meal (CNN) Yes, cheese is nutrient-rich -- and tasty -- but it's best to consume it in small portions. "Cheese does contain some important nutrients, including calcium and protein, along with vitamin B12 and zinc. However, the calories can add up quickly if you aren't mindful," said Kelly Pritchett, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Softer cheeses tend to have fewer calories than hard cheeses: an ounce of whole-milk ricotta (approximately 2 tablespoons) has about 50 calories, an ounce of feta has 75 calories, and an ounce of whole-milk mozzarella has 85 calories. But an ounce of Swiss (one slice) has 108 calories, and an ounce of cheddar has 114 calories (picture about a one-inch cube, depending on the kind). For the same calories, you can have a cup of black bean soup and probably feel just as full. Cheese is also high in saturated fat, which is known to increase LDL cholesterol, the "bad" cholesterol. In fact, cheese is one of the biggest sources of saturated fat in the US diet Read More
The Tesla Model 3 recently failed to earn a recommendation from Consumer Reports due to poor braking performance but, in a quick turnaround, the car is now recommended after its software was improved in an overnight, over-the-air update. All Tesla cars have mobile data connections that allow them to download software updates "over the air" just as cell phones and tablet computers do. Usually, when car manufacturers need to update software, the vehicles have to be brought into service centers where technicians perform the updates. Before the update, the car had taken an average of 152 feet to come to a full stop from 60 miles an hour, about seven feet longer than a Ford F-150 pickup, according to tests performed at Consumer Reports' Connecticut track. After the update, the Model 3's stopping distance was reduced by 20 feet. The car now has a stopping distance that's roughly the same as other comparable sedans. "I've been at [Consumer Reports] for 19 years and tested more than 1,000 cars, and I've never seen a car that could improve its track performance with an over-the-air update," Jake Fisher, director of auto testing at Consumer Reports, said in a blog post. A Tesla (TSLA) spokesperson told the magazine the software was updated to improve the brakes' performance with different drivers and in varying environmental conditions.. Tesla CEO Elon Musk had publicly promised to fix the braking issue. Anti-lock braking systems use wheel-spin sensors and computers to gauge when the tires are about to skid during hard braking. The system then quickly pumps the brakes many times per second to prevent the tires from losing grip as the car rapidly slows and stops. The braking improvement raised the Model 3's overall test score enough to earn the magazine's recommendation despite a few other complaints. The magazine's test drivers also took issue with wind noise, uncomfortable rear seats and and the car's relatively stiff ride. Tesla CEO Elon Musk told Consumer Reports that changes have already been made in cars leaving the production line to address those issues, according to a Consumer Reports blog post. In addition to the braking updates, Tesla also made changes to the car's touch screen interface, addressing another of the magazine's complaints that the interface is too distracting. "At first glance, these changes seem to be an improvement," the magazine said in its blog post, "but we need to spend more time evaluating them."
David A. Andelman, visiting scholar at the Center on National Security at Fordham Law School and director of its Red Lines Project, is a contributor to CNN where his columns won the 2017 Deadline Club Award for Best Opinion Writing. Follow him on Twitter @DavidAndelman. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) Well, there goes the Nobel Peace Prize . But could President Trump ever have seen himself sharing such an honor with anyone else? Or, for that matter, could he be seen as sharing a global spotlight with someone he'd not so long ago been calling Little Rocket Man? We also need to look at the bizarre events of the last few months from the other end of the telescope. Could Kim Jong Un ever have trusted the likes of Trump to guarantee his safety, his survival, his continued rule as a power-hungry dictator without a single nuclear sidearm, let alone a full-on arsenal? Hardly likely. After all, would Kim really have faced down the leader who, confronted with the most urgent pleas from all of his most loyal allies abroad, was prepared to withdraw from another nuclear pact -- with Iran -- that was in fact guaranteeing exactly what Trump wanted from Kim? Zero nukes for a very long time. Not likely. Yet, isn't that what French President Emmanuel Macron , German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson were warning Trump about? Their message was a simple one, and indeed as it turned out, quite prescient: That his act of summarily withdrawing from the Iran agreement could poison the well of a truce with North Korea and the elimination of its nuclear deterrent. The timing of Trump's announcement on Thursday, unilaterally putting a stake through the heart of his long-sought summit, was hardly unexpected. Just hours earlier, the North Korean leader had welcomed the world press to witness the destruction of the deep tunnels where he'd set off the atomic and hydrogen bombs that so inflamed Trump's passion. JUST WATCHED CNN sees apparent North Korea nuclear tunnel demolition Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN sees apparent North Korea nuclear tunnel demolition 01:03 Suddenly, Kim was showing that he was the big man, capable of the grand, theatrical gesture. Television teams from around the world, admitted to one of the most isolated and carefully guarded locations in the world's most secretive nation, carefully positioned for a truly dramatic act. If that doesn't sound like a scenario ready for prime-time television, what does? How do you spell one-upmanship? There's nothing facile, even easy, about nuclear diplomacy. It's the diplomatic equivalent of three-dimensional chess. But both Trump and Kim have long seemed to be laboring over a game of checkers. At the same time, Trump was doing little to smooth the path to the summit for an individual like Kim for whom paranoia is built into the DNA of his entire family. "We will guarantee his safety. He will be safe, he will be happy, his country will be rich," Trump pledged earlier this week with the president of South Korea sitting by his side in the Oval Office. But guarantee his safety where? In a forced exile in Singapore or Mongolia -- another spot that was at one point under consideration before Singapore was finally selected as the venue for the summit? Neither is a very appealing prospect to an absolute dictator accustomed to having everyone tremble at his beck and call. When it comes down to the now apparently demolished Kim-Trump summit, it's clear that it's all but impossible to play on a level playing field with a weapons-grade egomaniac. Moreover, when each of two individuals has the ability to rain down nuclear horror on the other, and when at least one is just a bit mad, then the odds multiply many times. No, we should hardly be surprised. What the world must now be holding its breath over is just how many other test tunnels, how many storage sites for missiles and weapons is Kim Jong Un harboring that no inspector will now be able to identify. Perhaps Trump has acted as impulsively and ill-advisedly in pulling out of this summit as he did when he surprised the world by accepting Kim's invitation without considering where it all might end up.
(CNN) They're skipping school, they're excluded from sports and they're shunned from places of worship -- once a month, at least, when they're menstruating. For many women and girls in India, even talking about periods is taboo, and a lack of access to sanitary products means life comes to a standstill for a few days every month. The Myna Mahila Foundation is trying to change that. The organization employs 15 local women from Mumbai slums to make sanitary pads, while another 50 women distribute them door to door in the slums. The model means stable employment for the workers and easy, affordable access to pads for people in the community. Women working for Myna Mahila Foundation in Mumbai show the sanitary pads they make and distribute. Speaking to CNN on Monday, marking Menstrual Hygiene Day, the foundation's co-founder Suhani Jalota listed the many reasons women and girls fail to get such essential items. "There's a whole bunch of different factors here where women don't have access to these products -- they don't even have knowledge of these products. There is a lot of stigma around it, there's a lack of facilities and infrastructure at schools," she said, explaining that some schools did not have functional toilets. Read More
(CNN) A small group of nuns and priests met the woman in the chapel of a house one June evening. Though it was warm outside, a palpable chill settled over the room. As the priests began to pray, the woman slipped into a trance -- and then snapped to life. She spoke in multiple voices: One was deep, guttural and masculine; another was high-pitched; a third spouted only Latin. When someone secretly sprinkled ordinary water on her, she didn't react. But when holy water was used, she screamed in pain. "Leave her alone, you f***ing priests," the guttural voice shouted. "Stop, you whores. ... You'll be sorry." You've probably seen this before: a soul corrupted by Satan, a priest waving a crucifix at a snarling woman. Movies and books have mimicked exorcisms so often, they've become clichés. The 1973 film "The Exorcist" shaped how many see demonic possession. But this was an actual exorcism -- and included a character not normally seen in the traditional drive-out-the-devil script. Dr. Richard Gallagher is an Ivy League-educated, board-certified psychiatrist who teaches at Columbia University and New York Medical College. He was part of the team that tried to help the woman. Fighting Satan's minions wasn't part of Gallagher's career plan while he was studying medicine at Yale. He knew about biblical accounts of demonic possession but thought they were an ancient culture's attempt to grapple with mental disorders like epilepsy. He proudly calls himself a "man of science." Yet today, Gallagher has become something else: the go-to guy for a sprawling network of exorcists in the United States. He says demonic possession is real. He's seen the evidence: victims suddenly speaking perfect Latin; sacred objects flying off shelves; people displaying "hidden knowledge" or secrets about people that they could not have possibly have known. "There was one woman who was like 90 pounds soaking wet. She threw a Lutheran deacon who was about 200 pounds across the room," he says. "That's not psychiatry. That's beyond psychiatry." Gallagher calls himself a "consultant" on demonic possessions. For the past 25 years, he has helped clergy distinguish between mental illness and what he calls "the real thing." He estimates that he's seen more cases of possession than any other physician in the world. There was one woman who was like 90 pounds soaking wet. She threw a Lutheran deacon who was about 200 pounds across the room. That's not psychiatry. That's beyond psychiatry. Dr. Richard Gallagher, psychiatrist, professor and demonic possession "consultant" "Whenever I need help, I call on him," says the Rev. Gary Thomas, one of the most famous exorcists in the United States. The movie "The Rite" was based on Thomas' work. "He's so respected in the field," Thomas says. "He's not like most therapists, who are either atheists or agnostics." Gallagher is a big man -- 6-foot-5 -- who once played semipro basketball in Europe. He has a gruff, no-nonsense demeanor. When he talks about possession, it sounds as if he's describing the growth of algae; his tone is dry, clinical, matter-of-fact. Possession, he says, is rare -- but real. "I spend more time convincing people that they're not possessed than they are," he wrote in an essay for The Washington Post. Some critics, though, say Gallagher has become possessed by his own delusions. They say all he's witnessed are cheap parlor tricks by people who might need therapy but certainly not exorcism. And, they argue, there's no empirical evidence that proves possession is real. Still, one of the biggest mysteries about Gallagher's work isn't what he's seen. It's how he's evolved. How does a "man of science" get pulled into the world of demonic possession? His short answer: He met a queen of Satan. A 'creepy' encounter with evil She was a middle-age woman who wore flowing dark clothes and black eye shadow. She could be charming and engaging. She was also part of a satanic cult. She called herself the queen of the cult, but Gallagher would refer to her as "Julia," the pseudonym he gave her. The woman had approached her local priest, convinced she was being attacked by a demon. The priest referred her to an exorcist, who reached out to Gallagher for a mental health evaluation. Why, though, would a devil worshipper want to be free of the devil? "She was conflicted," Gallagher says. "There was a part of her that wanted to be relieved of the possession." She ended up relieving Gallagher of his doubts. It was one of the first cases he took, and it changed him. Gallagher helped assemble an exorcism team that met Julia in the chapel of a house. Objects would fly off shelves around her. She somehow knew personal details about Gallagher's life: how his mother had died of ovarian cancer; the fact that two cats in his house went berserk fighting each other the night before one of her sessions. Julia found a way to reach him even when she wasn't with him, he says. He was talking on the phone with Julia's priest one night, he says, when both men heard one of the demonic voices that came from Julia during her trances -- even though she was nowhere near a phone and thousands of miles away. He says he was never afraid. "It's creepy," he says. "But I believe I'm on the winning side." How a scientist believes in demons He also insists that he's on the side of science. He says he's a stickler for the scientific method, that it teaches people to follow the facts wherever they may lead. Growing up in a large Irish Catholic family in Long Island, he didn't think much about stories of possession. But when he kept seeing cases like Julia's as a professional, he says, his views had to evolve. Some priests say those who dabble in the occult are opening doorways to the demonic. "I don't believe in this stuff because I'm Catholic," he says. "I try to follow the evidence." Being Catholic, though, may help. Gallagher grew up in a home where faith was taken seriously. His younger brother, Mark, says Gallagher was an academic prodigy with a photographic memory who wanted to use his faith to help people. "We had a sensational childhood," Mark Gallagher says. "My mother and father were great about always helping neighbors or relatives out." Their mother was a homemaker, and their father was a lawyer who'd fought in World War II. "My father used to walk us proudly into church. He taught us to give back." Gallagher's two ways of giving back -- helping the mentally ill as well as the possessed -- may seem at odds. But not necessarily for those in the Catholic Church. Contemporary Catholicism doesn't see faith and science as contradictory. Its leaders insist that possession, miracles and angels exist. But global warming is real, so is evolution, and miracles must be documented with scientific rigor. More from 'The Other Side' Some stories blur the lines between science, spirituality and the supernatural. These stories are from "The Other Side." Where do coincidences come from? Synchronicity is familiar to many people, yet few understand how it works. Are our lives are shaped by unseen hands? Or are we victims of psychological narcissm? Beyond Goodbye Some people not only share their life but their moment of death with loved ones. Are these "shared-death experiences" real or a mirage? Why Bigfoot is getting nervous Monster stories have been around for millennia. Now hunters are hot on the trail, armed with cameras, drones and night-vision goggles. Can they catch one? Ghost hunters haunted by competition We've heard of ghosts that harass the living. Now people are starting to harass the ghosts. Across America, teams are creeping through people's homes, trying to get rid of their paranormal pests. Heaven popular, except with the church Popular culture is filled with accounts from people who claim to have near-death experiences. So why doesn't the church talk about heaven anymore? Bidding farewell from beyond the grave? Although visits by the spirits of the recently departed can be chilling, they are also comforting, say those who've seen these "crisis apparitions." Can bonds between loved ones defy death? One of Gallagher's favorite sources of inspiration is Pope John Paul II's encyclical "Fides et Ratio" ("On Faith and Reason"). The Pope writes that "there can never be a true divergence between faith and reason, since the same God who reveals the mysteries and bestows the gift of faith has also placed in the human spirit the light of reason." The church's emphasis on faith and reason can even been seen in the birth of its exorcism ritual. The Rite of Exorcism was first published in 1614 by Pope Paul V to quell a trend of laypeople and priests hastily performing exorcisms on people they presumed were possessed, such as victims of the bubonic plague, says the Rev. Mike Driscoll, author of "Demons, Deliverance, Discernment: Separating Fact from Fiction about the Spirit World." "A line (in the rite) said that the exorcist should be careful to distinguish between demon possession and melancholy, which was a catchall for mental illness," Driscoll says. "The church knew back then that there were mental problems. It said the exorcist should not have anything to do with medicine. Leave that to the doctors." Doctors, perhaps, like Gallagher. Gallagher says the concept of possession by spirit isn't limited to Catholicism. Muslim, Jewish and other Christian traditions regard possession by spirits -- holy or benign -- as possible. "This is not quite as esoteric as some people make it out to be," Gallagher says. "I know quite a few psychiatrists and mental health professionals who believe in this stuff." Dr. Mark Albanese is among them. A friend of Gallagher's, Albanese studied medicine at Cornell and has been practicing psychiatry for decades. In a letter to the New Oxford Review, a Catholic magazine, he defended Gallagher's belief in possession. He also says there is a growing belief among health professionals that a patient's spiritual dimension should be accounted for in treatment, whether their provider agrees with those beliefs or not. Some psychiatrists have even talked of adding a "trance and possession disorder" diagnosis to the DSM, the premier diagnostic manual of disorders used by mental health professionals in the US. There's still so much about the human mind that psychiatrists don't know, Albanese says. Doctors used to be widely skeptical of people who claimed to suffer from multiple personalities, but now it's a legitimate disorder (dissociative identity disorder). Many are still dumbfounded by the power of placebos, a harmless pill or medical procedure that produces healing in some cases. "There's a certain openness to experiences that are happening that are beyond what we can explain by MRI scans, neurobiology or even psychological theories," Albanese says. Dr. Jeffrey Lieberman, a psychiatrist who specializes in schizophrenia, arrived at a similar conclusion after he had an unnerving experience with a patient. Lieberman was asked to examine the videotape of an exorcism that he subsequently dismissed as unconvincing. Then he met a woman who, he said, "freaked me out." Lieberman, director of the New York State Psychiatric Institute, says he and a family therapist were asked to examine a young woman who some thought was possessed. He and his colleague tried to treat the woman for several months but gave up because they had no success. The film "The Rite" is based on the life of the Rev. Gary Thomas, one of the leading exorcists in the US. Something happened during the treatment, though, that he still can't explain. After sessions with the woman, he says, he'd go home in the evenings, and the lights in his house would go off by themselves, photographs and artwork would fall or slide off shelves, and he'd experience a piercing headache. When he mentioned to this to his colleague one day, her response stunned him: She'd been having the exact same experiences. "I had to sort of admit that I didn't really know what was going on," Lieberman says. "Because of the bizarre things that occurred, I wouldn't say that (demonic possession) is impossible or categorically rule it out ... although I have very limited empirical evidence to verify its existence." The tragic case of the real 'Emily Rose' If you want to know why so many scientists and doctors like Lieberman are cautious about legitimizing demonic possession, consider one name: Anneliese Michel. Michel was a victim in one of the most notorious cases of contemporary exorcism. If you have the stomach for it, go online and listen to audiotapes and watch videos of her exorcisms. The images and sounds will burn themselves into your brain. It sounds like somebody dropped a microphone into hell. Michel was a German Catholic woman who died of starvation in 1976 after 67 exorcisms over a period of nine months. She was diagnosed with epilepsy but believed she was possessed. So did her devout Roman Catholic parents. She reportedly displayed some of the classic signs of possession: abnormal strength, aversion to sacred objects, speaking different languages. But authorities later determined that it was Michel's parents and two priests who were responsible for her death. German authorities put them on trial for murder, and they were found guilty of negligent homicide. The 2005 film "The Exorcism of Emily Rose" was based on Michel's ordeal and the subsequent trial. The worst thing you can do to a patient who is delusional is to confirm their delusions. Telling a patient who is struggling that maybe they're possessed by a demon is the worst thing you can do. Steven Novella, a neurologist and professor at Yale School of Medicine One of the leading skeptics of exorcism -- and one of Gallagher's chief critics -- is Steven Novella, a neurologist and professor at Yale School of Medicine. He wrote a lengthy blog post dissecting Gallagher's experience with Julia, the satanic priestess. It could be read as a takedown of exorcisms everywhere. He says Julia probably performed a "cold reading" on Gallagher. It's an old trick of fortune tellers and mediums in which they use vague, probing statements to make canny guesses about someone. (Fortune teller: "I see a recent tragedy in your family." Client: "You mean my sister who got hurt in a car accident? How did you know?") Or take the case of a person speaking an unfamiliar language like Latin during a possession. "A patient might memorize Latin phrases to throw out during one of their possessions," Novella wrote. "Were they having a conversation in Latin? Did they understand Latin spoken to them? Or did they just speak Latin?" Novella says it's noteworthy that no one has filmed any paranormal event such as levitation or sacred objects flying across the room during an exorcism. He's seen exorcism tapes posted online and in documentaries and says they're not scary. "They're boring," he says. "Nothing exciting happens. The most you get is some really bad play-acting by the person who is being exorcised." In an interview, Novella went further and criticized any therapist who believes his patient's delusions. "The worst thing you can do to a patient who is delusional is to confirm their delusions," says Novella, who founded the New England Skeptical Society. "The primary goal of therapy is to reorient them to reality. Telling a patient who is struggling that maybe they're possessed by a demon is the worst thing you can do. It's only distracting them from addressing what the real problem is." The 2005 horror film "The Exorcism of Emily Rose" was loosely based on the death of Anneliese Michel. Driscoll, the Catholic priest who wrote a book about possession, is not a skeptic like Novella. Still, he says, it's not unusual for people on drugs or during psychotic episodes to display abnormal strength. "I have seen it take four grown guys to hold one small woman down," says Driscoll, a chaplain at St. Elizabeth Medical Center in Ottawa, Illinois. "When a person has no fear and is not in their right mind and they don't care about hurting themselves or hurting others, you can see heartbreaking things." That doesn't mean he thinks possession isn't real. He says the New Testament is full of accounts of Jesus confronting demons. "Do I still believe it happens? Yes, I do," he says. "It happened then. I don't know why it would be totally eradicated now." Gallagher agrees and has answers for skeptics like Novella. He says demons won't submit to lab studies or allow themselves to be easily recorded by video equipment. They want to sow doubt, not confirm their existence, he says. Nor will the church compromise the privacy of a person suffering from possession just to provide film to skeptics. Gallagher says he sees his work with the possessed as an extension of his responsibilities as a doctor. In a passage from a book he is working on about demonic possession in America, he says that it is the duty of a physician to help people in great distress "without concern whether they have debatable or controversial conditions." Gallagher isn't the first psychiatrist to feel such duty. Dr. M. Scott Peck, the late author of "The Road Less Traveled," conducted two exorcisms himself -- something Gallagher considers unwise and dangerous for any psychiatrist. "I didn't go volunteering for this," he says. "I went into this because different people over the last few decades realized that I was open to this sort of thing. The referrals are almost invariably from priests. It's not like someone is walking into my office and I say, 'You must be possessed.' " What happened to Satan's queen He may not have asked to join the "hidden" world of exorcism, but he is an integral part of that community today. He's been featured in stories and documentaries about exorcism and is on the governing board of the Rome-based International Association of Exorcists. "It's deepened my faith," he says of the exorcisms he's witnessed. "It didn't radically change it, but it validated my faith." He says he's received thanks from many people he's helped over the years. Some wept, grateful to him for not dismissing them as delusional. As for letting a journalist talk to any of these people, Gallagher says he zealously guards their privacy. Belief in possession exists in many religious traditions. Here, a man enters a state of possession during an African voodoo ceremony. Julia, though, gave him permission to tell her story. But it didn't have a happy ending. He and a team of exorcists continued to see her, but eventually, she called a halt to the sessions. She was too ambivalent. She relished some of the abilities she displayed during her trances. She was "playing both sides." "Exorcism is not some kind of magical incantation," Gallagher says. "Normally, a person has to make their own sincere spiritual efforts, too." About a year after she dropped out, Gallagher says, he heard Julia's voice on the phone again. This time, she had called to tell him she was dying of cancer. Gallagher says he offered to try to help her with a team of priests while she was still physically able, but her response was terse: "Well, I'll give it some thought." He says he never heard from her again. Inevitably, there will be others. His phone will ring. A priest will tell him a story. A team of clergy and nuns will be summoned. And the man of science will enter the hidden world of exorcism again. Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. The critics, the souls that aren't saved, the creepy encounters -- they don't seem to deter him. "Truly informed exorcists don't tend to get discouraged," he says, "because they know it is our Lord who delivers the person, not themselves." Is Gallagher doing God's work, or does he need deliverance from his own delusions? Perhaps only God -- and Satan -- knows for sure.
(CNN) Winning is everything in elections, but expectations can make a tough loss feel like a gut punch or a surprise victory the thing of legend. Pretty much nobody, including his own staff, thought Donald Trump was going to beat Hillary Clinton in 2016, which made his victory all the more surprising. We're starting to see perceptions of a new lock in 2018: that Democrats will see a wave and take control of the House of Representatives. And that could be both good and bad news for them. There's a good probability that so many people assumed Clinton would win in 2016 that they didn't turn out to vote. In hindsight, they might have. That's conjecture, of course, but it's not a radical idea to say that if Clinton had been seen as less of a lock, she might have generated more excitement. But maybe because of that shocking loss, and with Trump in the White House, Democrats won't have to worry about setting lower expectations in 2018, according to Steve Israel, a former New York congressman who chaired the committee in charge of electing Democrats from 2011 thru 2015. He said Democrats have "nuclear energy" right now. "In environments like this, we used to worry that high expectations would lead to voter complacency," he said. "But 2018 has generated the equivalent of nuclear energy for Democrats. They're not staying home on Election Day, they're rushing to the polls. What Republicans are doing is bracing their donors for the worst, so that anything better than catastrophe can be spun as a victory." Republicans, it's true, are predicting a wave could upend their majorities. The House, where every seat is up for election, is much more likely to change hands than the Senate, where Democrats are defending 26 seats and Republicans are defending only eight. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, was using hurricane terminology "This is going to be a challenging election year," McConnell told members of the Kentucky Today editorial board on Tuesday. "We know the wind is going to be in our face. We don't know whether it's going to be a Category 3, 4 or 5." There is a very long list of reasons for Democrats to be optimistic. Here's one that CNN Political Director David Chalian rattled off: Despite all of that, Democrats say they won't be coasting into November. "Here's the bottom line: There's nothing easy about winning 23 seats under the current gerrymandered maps -- in the face of massive outside Republican spending -- and we're taking nothing for granted," said Tyler Law, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee's spokesman. There's no doubt both parties will be working hard, but the problem for Democrats could be beyond their control in some ways, especially if the press and the public start to expect a Democratic takeover of the House. Most Democrats think there's good reason for that expectation, at least right now. "If the elections were held tomorrow, I think we would take back the house," said Rodell Mollineau, a former top Democratic Senate staffer and former president of the super PAC American Bridge 21st Century. But he cautioned that political winds can change and pointed to the 2014 midterms, when Democrats felt good early on but Republicans ultimately saw gains in the Senate and House. He pointed out that national security issues, including ISIS and an Ebola outbreak, changed momentum during the campaign. "There's always danger in complacency," he said, adding, "There are some things that are out of the control of Republicans and Democrats and especially on the House side that will contribute to voters' opinions." In that vein, Democrats want to make the election about the more sensational aspects of Trump and his administration, his effort to dismantle Obamacare and the details of the unpopular tax law. But Republicans, led by Trump, will try to make it about immigration and stoke the fears of the same voters who put him in office. The beginnings of that effort apparently came last week as the President turned to provocative rhetoric about the southern border. Which means 2018 is just getting started.
Those labels describe the three groups of seats in the House of Representatives that will likely determine control of the chamber in November's midterm election. Virtually all analysts in both parties agree that the epicenter of vulnerability for the House Republican majority is in what could be called red pockets: These are the predominantly white-collar suburban seats the GOP still holds in big metropolitan areas that are otherwise solidly Democratic. Those include places such as Orange County, California; New Jersey; Miami; and suburbs outside of New York City, Chicago, Denver, Philadelphia and Minneapolis. But even if Democrats make big gains in those districts, there aren't quite enough of them to provide the party with the net gain of 24 seats it needs to recapture the House. That means House Democrats would also need to make inroads into the two other large groups of vulnerable GOP seats. One is what I call Romneyland: white-collar suburban seats in purple and even red states where Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, almost universally performed better than Donald Trump did in 2016. The third are the "blue-collar blues": mostly blue-collar, non-urban seats in blue states, where Trump almost without exception improved on Romney's performance. More distantly, the Democrats are also eyeing a few Republican-held blue-collar seats in purple and Republican-leaning states. But control of the House will likely turn on how the battle between the parties turns in the red pockets, Romneyland and the blue-collar blues. The red pockets will likely be the most reliable source of gains for Democrats because they compound two sources of Republican vulnerability: They are white-collar districts in areas with large numbers of Democrats, who appear motivated to turn out at higher-than-usual levels next fall. The big question is how far Democrats can reach into places where only one of those advantages is present: white-collar seats in traditionally Republican-leaning areas, or seats in Democratic states that are more rural and blue-collar. JUST WATCHED Intel chiefs: Russia targeting 2018 elections Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Intel chiefs: Russia targeting 2018 elections 02:14 This battlefield reflects the long-term trends that have seen Democrats demonstrate increasing strength up and down the ballot in diverse, heavily college-educated, major metropolitan areas -- even in Republican-leaning states. In parallel, Republicans have established dominant control over preponderantly white non-metro and blue-collar areas, even in otherwise Democratic-leaning states. All of these trends have accelerated under Trump. Amid improving attitudes toward the Republican tax bill, several recent polls have shown a small but measurable uptick in President Trump's job approval rating and a narrowing into the mid-single digits of the previously double-digit advantage Democrats have held in the "generic" ballot test of preferences for 2018. But even with those shifts, polls still consistently find a deeply polarized electorate. Trump and the GOP retain solid support among white men without college degrees, if slightly less than they attracted in 2016. But they are facing intense resistance from younger and non-white voters -- especially African-Americans -- and much lower numbers than usual among college-educated whites, especially, but not exclusively, women. White women without a college education, whose support was critical to Trump's 2016 victory, loom as a wild card: Polls find they have cooled on him, but Democrats still face many obstacles with them. These diverging demographic attitudes shape the geography of the 2018 battlefield. Red pockets The clearest opportunity for Democrats is the relatively few remaining Republican-held districts in blue metro areas with large populations of college-educated whites, and in many cases substantial minority and youth populations as well. These are places crowded with voters who tilt toward liberal positions on social issues and recoil from Trump's volatile persona, particularly the way he talks about race. The renewed visibility of gun control issues after the horrific Parkland, Florida, massacre could provide Democrats another lever in these districts, since the Republicans in them have almost universally voted with the National Rifle Association to loosen gun regulations in recent years. These "red pockets" include the four seats Republicans control in Orange County -- the districts held by Mimi Walters and Dana Rohrabacher and the open seats that will be vacated by Darrell Issa and Ed Royce -- as well as their sole remaining seat in Los Angeles County, held by Steve Knight. Others that fit this description include the seats in the western Chicago suburbs held by Republican Peter Roskam and in the eastern Denver suburbs held by Mike Coffman; the three suburban Philadelphia seats held by Ryan Costello, Mike Fitzpatrick and Pat Meehan (who has announced he will not seek re-election amid a sex scandal); the northern Virginia seat held by Barbara Comstock; two open seats in New Jersey as well as the one defended by Rep. Leonard Lance; Lee Zeldin's seat in eastern Long Island; the suburban Minneapolis seats now held by Jason Lewis and Erik Paulsen; the Seattle-area seat that Dave Reichert is leaving; as well as the Miami-area seat being vacated by Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and the nearby seat held by Rep. Carlos Curbelo. JUST WATCHED Missouri Democrat wins district won by Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Missouri Democrat wins district won by Trump 01:42 Though Romney carried many of these seats -- often narrowly -- in 2012, Hillary Clinton won all of those listed above in 2016 except for the seats held by Lewis and Fitzpatrick, which Trump won by eyelash margins, and Zeldin's, which Trump won more comfortably. These resemble the places where Democrats showed the most dramatic gains in 2017, for instance in their sweep of legislative seats and the huge margins they generated in the governor's race in northern Virginia. Compounding the GOP's vulnerability, the new congressional map the Pennsylvania Supreme Court issued Monday, after earlier ruling that the current district lines represented an impermissible gerrymander, strengthened the Democrats' hand in all three suburban Philadelphia seats. For Republicans, the key in these booming districts will be whether the good economy helps them recapture voters recoiling from Trump's personal behavior. One complication is these blue-state upper-middle-class suburbs are among the most likely losers from the GOP tax plan, which limits the deductibility of mortgage interest and state and local taxes. Democrats are highly unlikely to win back the House without maximizing their gains in the red pockets. Romneyland The next bucket of seats is demographically similar to the red pockets but politically distinct because they are in metro areas that lean much more reliably toward the GOP. I call this group of seats Romneyland because they are filled with voters who resemble Romney demographically and ideologically: professionals and corporate middle managers who want a president who will shrink government and even pursue a center-right social agenda, but also exude professionalism and decorum. Romney won virtually every seat in this category in 2012. In 2016, Trump lost ground relative to Romney in almost all of them, though the residual Republican strength was great enough that he still carried many, albeit often narrowly. The districts in this bucket include the Omaha-area seat held by Don Bacon; the seats in suburban Houston and outside Dallas held by John Culberson and Pete Sessions, respectively; the two suburban Atlanta seats held by Karen Handel and Rob Woodall; David Young's seat outside Des Moines; the Tucson-area seat Martha McSally is vacating to run for the Senate from Arizona; the Lexington, Kentucky-area seat held by Andy Barr; the seats outside Detroit that Dave Trott is vacating and Mike Bishop is defending; and Kevin Yoder's seat in suburban Kansas City, Kansas. These seats are not immune from the forces threatening the Republicans in the red pockets: Handel, for instance, only narrowly survived last June's special election in Georgia, though her predecessor Tom Price had carried over 60% of the vote there as recently as 2016. But as Handel's slim victory over Democrat Jon Ossoff showed, Republicans have more of a cushion in these places than in the red pockets. That's partly because more of the white-collar whites in them are social conservatives than their counterparts in the Democratic-leaning metro areas. Blue-collar blues The third key test for Democrats is the districts I call "blue-collar blues." These are the blue-collar, exurban, small town and rural seats in states that generally lean Democratic. These include Republican seats held by John Faso, John Katko and Claudia Tenney in upstate New York; Mike Bost, Rodney Davis and Randy Hultgren in downstate Illinois; the northeast Iowa seat of Rod Blum; Bruce Poliquin's northern Maine district; and the Central Valley, California, seats of Jeff Denham and David Valadao. JUST WATCHED Dems flip deep-red Missouri state House seat Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dems flip deep-red Missouri state House seat 01:53 These seats present an especially revealing test for Democrats. Former President Barack Obama carried almost all of them at least once and many of them have elected Democratic House members in the recent past. But House Democrats were routed in these places in the 2010 and 2014 midterm elections under Obama, and almost all of these districts turned further toward Trump in 2016. The 2017 results in Virginia and Alabama showed Democrats almost completely failing to crack the GOP's hold on blue-collar and rural voters. But some Democrats argue that terrain is much tougher for the party in the South than in the Northeastern and Midwestern states where these competitive House seats are concentrated. Democrats see an opening in polling, such as the 2017 average of Gallup's daily approval ratings for Trump, that shows a significant erosion in his support across the Rust Belt among working-class white women, even as he remains very strong among blue-collar white men. Converting that female disillusionment with Trump into votes for Democratic congressional candidates is likely the key to seriously contesting the "blue-collar blue" seats. One early test will be March's special election in the heavily blue-collar southwestern Pennsylvania district that Republican Rep. Tim Murphy has vacated: Democrat Conor Lamb, a former Marine, is running competitively against Republican state Rep. Rick Saccone in a district Trump carried by nearly 20 percentage points. Beyond the top-tier targets in the red pockets, there's a spirited behind-the-scenes debate among Democratic strategists about which of the remaining two buckets of seats represents the party's best opportunity in 2018. Some focus most on winning back working-class voters in blue states, who have a recent history of voting for the party but are more favorable to Trump. Others see more opportunity to convert white-collar suburbanites in red states, who have a longer history of voting Republican but are also more disaffected from the President. To recapture the House, Democrats will likely need to do a considerable amount of both. CORRECTION: This story has been updated to note that President Donald Trump won the New York congressional district of Republican Rep. Lee Zeldin, in eastern Long Island.
Baba Ramdev is a proponent of yoga and Ayurveda, selling agricultural products and herbal medicines in a package that includes health and spirituality. And as of this week, he's also one of New India's technocrats, as his Patanjali has launched a WhatsApp competition called Kimbho. It was launched last night among jokes from the smart set, but the truth is that Patanjali is a powerhouse brand in India, whose revenues in 2016-17 were $1.6 billion. With support from Baba Ramdev's massive marketing organisation, Kimbho could be downloaded by the millions. And it's security could already be compromised. Tweets by French security researcher Elliot Alderson suggest that it's possible to break into other people's messages and collect all user information. Alderson has gained fame in India for his work in exposing the weaknesses in Aadhaar and various Indian apps and government sites. Although he's French, the bulk of his following comes from India, and that's perhaps why he's focusing his efforts on the country. Alderson tweeted that Kimbho can easily be broken into, allowing a malicious user to read other people's messages. After tweeting that Kimbho is a joke, and urging people not to install the app, Aldersons said: Ok, I will stop here. The #Kimbho #android #app is a security disaster. I can access the messages of all the users...🤦‍♂️ — Elliot Alderson (@fs0c131y) May 30, 2018 Soon after, the app was removed from Google Play without an explanation. By itself, Alderson's allegations are quite worrying, but that might not be the only concern. The Kimbho app had access to a plethora of information about the users, with a wide ranging set of permissions required. Kimbho promises secure chat and free VoIP video calls. But, it wants access to your identity, all the contacts in your phonebook, your physical location, to be able to read your SMS messages, make phone calls, look at all photos and files on your phone, to be able to use your camera and microphone, and also get your Wi-Fi and device information. In short, everything there is to know about you. Of course, other apps access this kind of data as well. Being able to read SMSes, for example, would be used to enable testing for OTPs, while having access to your mic and camera are obviously required for video chatting - a feature of the app. In fact, WhatsApp also has access to all of these different things as well. However, WhatsApp has - thus far - proven to be secure. There's also the question of how credible the company is and how much trust it deserves. WhatsApp comes from Facebook, a famously data hungry company with reach around the world and that's something to be kept in mind certainly. But up to this point, the two companies have kept their businesses apart, and there are no ads in Facebook, and your data is also - so far - safe. Brian Acton and Jan Koum, the two founders of WhatsApp, both left Facebook among reports of fights over customer data privacy, so this might change in the future, but for now at least, it's likely safe. "If a company like Facebook which gets so much scrutiny does this, imagine what the small apps you've never heard of are doing?" On the other hand, although Patanjali promotes an image of wholesome Indianness, an RTI inquiry revealed that its products fail quality tests. Nearly 40% of Patanjali products were found to be of substandard quality and the armed forces Canteen Stores Department (CSD) had to suspend sales of amla juice from Patanjali. It was also fined Rs 11 lakh for its misleading advertisements in 2016. There's also the perception of close ties to the government, and support for a polarising Hindutva agenda. Thanks to the Cobrapost sting, we've already seen how an app can be weaponised, and if Kimbho catches on, then it'll be in the same position -- and this is a good time to remind you of the kind of data that this app has access to. Once the app is on millions of phones, it can track where those millions of Indians are at any point in time, and potentially sharing this with anyone it wants. Abhay Edlabadkar, CEO of security company Redmorph says users need to pay more attention to permissions and gives us the examples of a torch app that asks for internet access. "People lack awareness of what apps are doing, but even trusted companies are scooping up your data," he says. "If a company like Facebook which gets so much scrutiny does this, imagine what the small apps you've never heard of are doing?"
Brooklyn, NY (CNN) As an emergency physician at Kings County Hospital Center, Dr. Rob Gore has faced many traumatic situations that he'd rather forget. But some moments stick with him. "Probably the worst thing that I've ever had to do is tell a 15-year-old's mother that her son was killed," Gore said. "If I can't keep somebody alive, I've failed." Gore, a Brooklyn native, finds violent injuries particularly hard to stomach -- a feeling compounded by the fact that many of the victims he treats are young men of color. "When I became an ER doc, my patients looked just like me," he said. "A lot of this stuff really hits home." According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, homicide is the No. 1 cause of death for black men ages 15 to 34. "Conflict's not avoidable. But violent conflict is," Gore said. "Seeing a lot of the traumas that take place at work, or in the neighborhood, you realize, 'I don't want this to happen anymore. What do we do about it?'" For Gore, one answer is the Kings Against Violence Initiative -- known as KAVI -- which he started in 2009. Today, the nonprofit has anti-violence programs in the hospital, schools and broader community, serving more than 250 young people. Victims of violence are more likely to be reinjured, so the first place Gore wanted to work was in the hospital, with an intervention program in which "hospital responders" assist victims of violence and their family -- a model pioneered at other hospitals. The idea is that reaching out right after someone has been injured reduces the likelihood of violent retaliation and provides a chance for the victim to address some of the circumstances that may have led to their injury. Gore started this program at his hospital with a handful of volunteers from KAVI. Today, the effort is a partnership between KAVI and a few other nonprofits, with teams on call 24/7. Yet Gore wanted to prevent people from being violently injured in the first place. So, in 2011, he and his group began working with a handful of at-risk students at a nearby high school. By the end of the year, more than 50 students were involved. Today, KAVI holds weekly workshops for male and female students in three schools, teaching mediation and conflict resolution. The group also provides free mental health counseling for students who need one-on-one support. "Violence is everywhere they turn -- home, school, neighborhood, police," Gore said. "You want to make sure they can learn how to process, deal with it and overcome it." While Gore still regularly attends workshops, most are now led by peer facilitators -- recent graduates and college students, some of whom are former KAVI members -- who serve as mentors to the students. School administrators say the program has been a success: lowering violence, raising grades and sending many graduates on to college. "This is really about the community in which we live" he said. "This is my home. And I'm going to do whatever is possible to make sure people can actually thrive." CNN spoke to Gore about his work. Below is an edited version of their conversation. CNN: How did your background as a doctor influence your work? Dr. Rob Gore: I just started asking myself, "Why does this stuff happen?" If we're just doing these Band-Aid approaches, then they're going to be suffering with the same problems. Your perspective completely changes if the trauma becomes personal. I started looking at violence as a public health problem -- this preventable disease where if we intervene, we could really change the scope of this. I want to preserve life and improve vitality, and that has really inspired the work that we've been doing with KAVI. JUST WATCHED CNN Heroes: Violence hits home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Heroes: Violence hits home 02:52 CNN: Why is the hospital responder program necessary, and how does it work? Gore: When you have domestic violence patients, everyone knows what to do -- you call the sex abuse response team and start taking care of their physical and psychosocial needs. But when a 16-year-old male is shot in front of his building, often they'd just send him home. He's going back to the same building, school -- the same situation where he got into trouble and he's expected to carry on normal life. No one has paid any attention to that kid's needs. Hospital responders are individuals from the same community who understand all the social, economic, even gang-related issues that might be impacting them. They are an advocate who makes sure that those patients are offered the same dignity as every other patient. They will follow up with the patients when they're on the hospital wards. They want to make sure that you have a safe place to go and a ride home. They identify the specific needs of that patient and work with the social workers, who have access to other resources. And they keep following up even after the patient has been discharged. We want to make sure that they don't come back for repeat injuries and that they can be in a position to take care of themselves and their families. CNN: KAVI also has several community programs. What is their reach? Gore: Our community programs cover a lot. Our tutoring program is run by medical students and emergency medicine resident physicians; it's a way to build a bridge between the hospital and the community. Our afterschool program for middle school students is called KAVI YO, which stands for Young Ones, named in honor of Willis Young, one of our hospital responders who was stabbed and died in 2015. We also have a summer camp where our high school students work with middle school students. Our students have so much potential. They just need somebody to help figure out how they can access it. That's our ultimate goal -- we want to make sure the people we're serving are at their best. Want to get involved? Check out the KAVI website and see how to help. To donate to KAVI, click the CrowdRise widget below.
(CNN) Dining out frequently is known to increase one's intake of unhealthy sugars and fats. But a new study suggests that there's another reason to eat at home more often: phthalates. Phthalates are potentially harmful chemicals found in hundreds of consumer products, including perfumes, hair sprays, shampoos and the plastics used in food processing and packaging. Consumption of these chemicals has been linked to birth defects in young boys as well as behavioral problems and obesity in older children and adults. Exposure in utero can alter the development of the male reproductive tract , resulting in incomplete descent of one or both testicles. Scientists also suspect that the chemicals can disrupt hormones and may cause fertility problems. They've connected them to childhood obesity, asthma, neurological problems, cardiovascular issues and even cancer. "Phthalates are a class of synthetic chemicals known as endocrine disruptors, meaning they affect hormones in the body," said Dr. Sheela Sathyanarayan a, an associate professor of pediatrics at Seattle Children's Hospital and the University of Washington and past chairwoman of the Environmental Protection Agency's Children's Health Protection Advisory Committee, who was not involved in the study. "Hormones are essential for normal body functions such as reproduction or metabolism." were 35% higher than those who reported eating food purchased at the grocery store. The study , published Wednesday in the journal Environment International, found that the phthalate levels of participants who had eaten at restaurants, cafeterias and fast-food outlets in the previous daywere 35% higher than those who reported eating food purchased at the grocery store. Those who dined out were probably exposed to the chemicals via foods that had been in contact with plastic packaging, said Ami Zota , an assistant professor of environmental and occupational health at George Washington University and a leading author on the study. "The main idea is that food that is made in restaurants and cafeterias may be coming into contact with materials containing phthalates in part because some portion of the food is made in decentralized locations," Zota said. "Most of the phthalates that are of most concern from a health perspective are plasticizers; they're added to make plastics soft," she added. "They're added to food packaging, they can be in food handling gloves, and they can be found in food tubing." The study relied on data collected between 2005 and 2014 from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, administered every two years by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It included 10,253 people who were asked about their dining habits over the past 24 hours and who provided urine samples to evaluate phthalate levels in the body. The researchers found that about two-thirds of respondents reported dining out at least once the previous day. Those who dined out also had significantly greater levels of phthalate metabolites in their urine. This association was consistent across all ages, genders and ethnicities, but it was strongest among teenagers who ate out: They had phthalate levels 55% higher than those who ate at home. "The association between phthalate exposure and dining out existed in all age groups, but the magnitude of the association was highest for teenagers," Zota said. "Certain foods, especially cheeseburgers and other sandwiches, were also associated with increased levels of phthalates, but only if they were purchased from a dining-out establishment." This is not the first time phthalate levels have been linked to food sources. In 2016, Zota led a study that showed a connection between phthalate exposure and fast-food restaurants. The new study expands on this research by showing that the link persists even when eating at other types of establishments, such as sit-down restaurants and cafeterias, she said. "We first used this methodology to focus on fast food and found some striking associations between recent fast food consumption and phthalate exposure," Zota said. "And now, we extended that to see if the findings were unique to fast food, or how do they compare to other food outlets that may reflect other types of food processing and manufacturing systems?" Last year, a report found high concentrations of phthalates in macaroni and cheese mixes, which prompted a push for additional regulation of the chemicals in food. Although the US Food and Drug Administration monitors levels of phthalates in a number of cosmetics, it does not regulate its presence in food or beverage products. "Policy would need to focus on reducing phthalate exposures in food production processes. Food manufacturers would need to know about sources of contamination and work to reduce these," Sathyanarayana said. "The other way to approach it is to either reduce or ban phthalate use in food manufacturing." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. The good news, though, is that phthalates linger in the body for only about a day. Changing your eating habits and consuming more home-cooked meals could therefore have almost immediate health benefits, according to Zota. "Preparing food at home may represent a win-win," Zota said. "Home-cooked meals can be a good way to reduce sugar, unhealthy fats and salt, and this study suggests that they may not have as many harmful phthalates as restaurant meals. "The other important point is that these chemicals are ubiquitous in the environment," she added. "So, to really reduce everyone's exposure to these potentially harmful chemicals, we need systemic changes to how our food is produced and transported, and that's going to require changes in policy as well as market-based solutions."
(CNN) Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will visit North Korea on Thursday, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement, the latest move in Pyongyang's push for diplomatic rapprochement. Lavrov is expected to discuss not only the situation in the Korean peninsula and the wider region, but also the relationship between the two countries, according to the ministry. His visit comes as North Korea, the US and South Korea intensify efforts towards convening a historic summit between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump . On Wednesday, American officials crossed the demilitarized zone into North Korea to meet with officials there, South Korean media reported, purportedly to discuss the substance of any talks should they occur. North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho had extended an invitation to Lavrov to visit the country on a trip to Moscow on April 10. The long-time Russian foreign minister has previously traveled to Pyongyang, including in 2009 during an earlier round of negotiations on North Korean disarmament. There were no discussions during the April 10 meeting of either Russian President Vladimir Putin or North Korean leader Kim Jong Un visiting each other's capitals, Lavrov said at the time, but added that both leaders "regularly exchange statements." JUST WATCHED Questions surround outcome of Trump-Kim summit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Questions surround outcome of Trump-Kim summit 01:23 Shuttle diplomacy ramps up North Korean and US officials have been spotted in Singapore, ostensibly planning the logistics of the event which was scheduled for June 12 in the city-state until Trump called it off last week. He has not said definitively that the summit was back on, but the shuttle diplomacy between the three nations to find common ground has been a positive signal to observers that it will go ahead. JUST WATCHED Shadowy figures behind North Korean diplomacy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shadowy figures behind North Korean diplomacy 02:13 As Lavrov arrives in Pyongyang, Kim Jong Un's right-hand man Kim Yong Chul will be in New York meeting with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo . Trump confirmed Kim's travel in a tweet on Tuesday, and said the trip was a "solid response" to his letter from last week to Kim Jong Un. In his letter Trump had decried the "tremendous anger and open hostility" seen in statements out of North Korea, but also said he looked "very much forward to meeting" Kim Jong Un. The forging of a relationship with the US has North Korean allies like China and Russia concerned that it would hinder their influence and standing with Pyongyang. Putin had criticized Trump's decision to cancel the summit , telling reporters last week that "we in Russia view it with regret because we really counted on this very significant step toward the de-escalation of the situation on the Korean Peninsula and that this will be the beginning to the whole process of denuclearization." He went on to say that Russia and its partners would work to try to bridge the gap between the US and North Korea, and said it would "be better to revert to the mechanisms which have worked quite well to create some kind of dialogue." Russian influence in North Korea has waned Even though the two nations established relations 70 years ago, the shadow once cast by Russia has lessened in North Korea as Moscow's global influence has waned and its own economy has been shaken by international sanctions. "Russia has far less influence or leverage with North Korea than China does, and that's not because of the military stuff, it's purely because of money," said Bruce Bechtol, a professor of political science at Angelo State University who has authored several books on North Korea. Late North Korean leader Kim Jong Il is greeted by women in traditional costume as he arrives August 1, 2001 at the train station in the Siberian city of Omsk, Russia for the first stopover on his train journey to Moscow. Kim met Russian President Vladimir Putin on August 4. "During the Cold War, Russia subsidized everything in North Korea. North Korea was not a poor country, it was simply a subsidized member of what we can now call the Soviet Union's satellite states," he told CNN. That all ended in 1991, said Bechtol, when the Berlin Wall came down, communism in the Soviet Union and its member states collapsed, and Russia opened its economic doors to the West.
A clip from a Chinese game show called “I’m the Winner” in which a woman completely destroys her competition in a cotton candy-eating competition recently went viral — and after one viewing, you’ll totally understand why. This woman truly knows how to candy crush the competition. I love how she goes from classy, to OFGLARBDKVNES, then to classy again... I have watched this roughly 28,543 times now and it keeps getting better and better https://t.co/pE8jzm8AL5 Breathtaking singularity of purpose. Flawless technique. The kind of élan vital that powers legends. https://t.co/cOz0XqIwmk It's like this woman had been waiting her whole life for this one moment when should could fulfil her cotton candy eating destiny According to a HuffPost translation of the video, which was originally posted on the Chinese social media network Weibo, a host on the show can be heard asking her male opponent to “take a look to his left” as the woman stands finished way ahead of him, her mouth filled with candy. “No matter what game it is, want to beat me? Not going to happen,” the woman wrote in the status of her post. She also shared another clip of a game show where she was challenged by the hosts to transport cream from one bowl to another using only her face. In the status of this video, she wrote: This scene [of me with cream of my face] reminds me of myself many years ago — so honest yet embarrassing. Now I eat up cotton candy in three seconds gracefully. I only want to say to my mom, look how much your daughter has grown! BuzzFeed identified the woman as 25-year-old An-Qi, who works as a TV anchor in Zhejiang, China. She told the outlet that her male opponent was talking smack before the competition and she knew she had to win. “My urge to beat my competitor was too strong,” she said. And to think, some people believe women like to be meek while they eat. Thanks for being anti-Lady Doritos, An-Qi!
At age 69, Sandi Zahar takes home around $3,100 a month from Social Security and her part-time job, but still relies on a food bank. She has diabetes and is a cancer survivor, and estimates that about a third of her income goes to her health care costs. Her income is too high to qualify for food stamps or Medicaid. And she needs to keep working to make ends meet. "I don't know how long I am going to be able to work," said Zahar, who lives in Texas. "Physically, I probably shouldn't be working ... it's taking a toll on my body." She's had to make some tough decisions on how to cut back. "I went on an insulin pump because Medicare pays for it. I don't like it, it's not as good for me, but it's cheaper," she said. Millions of Americans like her make too much money to qualify for federal assistance, but struggle to afford to put food on the table. More than 41 million people are "food insecure," meaning they don't have consistent access to adequate food, according to Feeding America. One in four people who are food insecure aren't likely to be eligible for most federal nutrition programs, a recent report from the hunger-relief organization found. That means they either go hungry, skip meals, or rely on food banks to fill in the gaps. Zahar gets a box of food from the food bank once a month. She's careful with how she spends money on food, buying in bulk when she can and cooking longer-lasting meals. Related: Almost half of US families can't afford basics like rent and food Though the economy has greatly improved since the Great Recession, life is getting more expensive: Consumer prices have been rising, and while wages have started to tick up, some workers are finding their paychecks are being stretched too thin. The rate of food insecurity is currently higher than it was before the Great Recession. "Even in what seems to be a robust economic recovery, food insecurity remains at a historically high level," Feeding America President Matt Knott. Nearly every county in the country has families that can't afford to put an adequate amount of food on the table. Many earn too much to get government assistance. The problem tends to be more prevalent in the South and rural areas. Jefferson County, Mississippi, has the highest rate of food insecurity at 36%. Nearby Issaquena County has the highest number of children facing food insecurity at 40%. In every state, children are more likely than the general population to live in a home at risk of hunger, the report found. "The majority of people our pantries are serving aren't eligible [for government assistance]. We hear stories that they earn $1 or $2 over the limit," said Sarah Ormbrek, community relations director for Second Harvest, which is part of the Feeding America family. Ormbrek herself once relied on food banks and government aid to get by and had to make some tough choices. "I skipped meals, I was trying to get the most out of the money. So fresh vegetables or any fresh foods were out of the question. It was the cheapest processed lunch meat I could find," she recalled. "To this day, my son doesn't like pancakes. I would water down the batter to make it last longer." Related: In booming economies, food banks are busier than ever Some Republican lawmakers have been looking to overhaul the federal food stamps program, formally known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, by requiring more recipients to work. Some experts fear this would cause many to lose their benefits. "We are the last line of defense. The government is the first line," said Knott. "The government's program serves 12 meals for every one meal we do. Any cuts can have a real effect on our network."
Ann Brenoff’s “On The Fly” is a weekly column about navigating growing older ― and a few other things. Dear millennials, Sorry to be the bearer of bad news here, but you are about to get sucked into a hellhole unlike anything you’ve ever previously imagined. It will devastate you, leave you emotionally spent, make you physically ill and resentful at times. It could totally derail your career or force you to dip into your retirement savings ― and then one day it will abruptly end and leave you in a state of deep grief. Oh, and the government doesn’t really give a damn about any of this, so you are pretty much on your own. What is this nightmare scenario? You are about to become my generation’s caregivers. That’s right. A recently released AARP report, “Millennials: The Emerging Generation of Family Caregivers,” points the finger squarely at you. It notes that your caregiving responsibilities are just starting to rev up, with about 1 in 4 of you already putting in an extra 21 hours a week taking care of us. To be clear, that is 21 unpaid hours ― while you work at your real jobs and/or care for your own families at the same time. Close to half of you will be helping a parent or a parent-in-law. In most cases (65 percent), it will be your mother, said AARP. About 76 percent of the people cared for by millennial family members are 50 or older, and the average care recipient is 60 years old. The average care recipient helped by a grandchild is 77 years old. And more than half of millennial family caregivers (51 percent) are the sole caregiver, alone in their duties. You can expect this trend to continue. As more people like me go not-so-gently into our elder years, more of you will be asked to step up and take care of us. Why? U.S. public policy has lagged woefully behind today’s reality that 10,000 baby boomers a day are turning 65. And that burden is headed straight to your shoulders. So let’s start with what caregiving entails. My generation already knows this, because we’ve served as our own parents’ and spouse’s caregivers, but here’s the CliffsNotes version for you. It’s a dirty job, but somebody’s got to do it. Family caregivers today do many of the same things that nurses do, and then some. And much of it isn’t pretty. You can look forward to changing adult diapers (just don’t dare try to claim those as a caregiving expense!), giving medications, installing safety bars, taping down rugs and telling your grandmother who helped raise you that she can’t drive anymore while she sobs and asks you what your name is. Again. You will be changing catheters and testing blood and hooking up your dad to a home dialysis machine because visiting health aides don’t come every day. Family caregivers do. You will sometimes forget to dispose of your “sharps” properly and someone will call you on it. You will make multiple trips a week driving your loved one to doctors, waste hours in line at the pharmacy and spend hours on the phone with insurance providers all the while trying to juggle your own life, family and job. You will blow your stack, cry yourself to sleep and endure days when you don’t even have time to shower. Your own health will suffer. The stress of trying to work while doing all this will feel unbearable at times, especially if you’re doing it without help. Impatience may become your middle name. You not only don’t get paid; it will cost you. You are a godsend ― that’s what everyone will tell you. After all, the work done by the nation’s family caregivers would cost about $642 billion a year if it were done by paid skilled nurses, according to the Rand Corp. Meanwhile, Rand put the annual income lost by family caregivers for the elderly at $522 billion. That was in 2014, so you can mentally adjust for inflation. It’s staggering. Bear in mind: Family caregivers labor free of charge, contributing their time, their energy and often their own well-being. You will join their ranks out of love, obligation, guilt ― and for one other important reason: You’ll have no choice. And it will cost you in yet another way. Caregivers’ out-of-pocket costs were nearly 20 percent of their annual income, AARP said in its 2016 report, with average annual spending of $6,954. To cover the extra expense, AARP notes, many family caregivers cut back on their own spending. They reduce, if not stop, saving for retirement altogether. They don’t eat out or take vacations. And many have dipped into personal or retirement savings. The damage to caregivers is long-lasting. Many caregivers find their health adversely affected. A UCLA Center for Health Policy Research survey found that nearly one-third of the estimated 3 million-plus informal caregivers in California reported emotional stress so severe it disrupted their lives. “Caregiver syndrome” is the popular name for the anger, guilt and exhaustion that come from providing unrelenting care for a chronically ill loved one. As you will quickly find out for yourself, respite care ― an outsider to come in and give you a break once in a while ― is expensive and not always available. Caregiving can impact your health, but what it does to your career is something awful times two. Caregivers miss days of work, don’t apply for or accept promotions, and sometimes just drop out of the paid workforce altogether to care for their loved ones. Lost wages and benefits average $303,880 over the lifetimes of people 50 and older who stop working to care for a parent, according to a National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine report. To add insult to that injury, a lower earnings history means reduced Social Security payments when you become eligible. Government could help a lot but doesn’t. That National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine report provides a very sobering look at the state of family caregiving in the U.S. It notes that caregivers are cracking under the strain, and although things could be done to support them, nobody is really paying attention. What could be done to ease the almost certain misery you’re headed for? How about tax credits for caregiving or reimbursement for caregiving expenses? Why not offer Social Security credits so that caregivers don’t miss out down the road? And maybe pass paid family leave to take care of an elderly loved one, so that after you’ve spent the night dealing with Grandpa’s tendency to rage after sunset, you don’t have to report to work at 9 a.m. the next day? Good luck, Ann P.S. Welcome to the club.
Perth has long battled a reputation for being one of the most boring places in Australia, if not the world. But a queer culture and lifestyle magazine is hoping to shift that view by showcasing the city’s refreshingly diverse gay, bi and trans community. This article contains images that may not be considered suitable for work. Liam Campbell interviewed and photographed 17 queer Perth men for the new issue of Elska magazine, released May 1. The 176-page edition is the largest in the publication’s nearly three-year history ― a testament, he said, to the city’s underrated vitality. “When people wrote things like, ‘You should come to Melbourne, but if you can’t, just please don’t choose Perth’ or ‘Sydney would be great, but absolutely not Perth ― it’s the most boring city in the world.’ These comments just made me want to choose Perth more,” Campbell, the magazine’s founder and editor, told HuffPost. “I wanted to prove them wrong and give Perth some love.”
(CNN) At least one police officer was killed and five others injured in an attack on the Afghan Interior Ministry in Kabul on Wednesday, according to police. Ten assailants attacked the ministry after an explosives-laden vehicle detonated at the front gate of the compound, according to Interior Ministry spokesman Najib Danish. All the attackers were killed by security forces after a nearly two-hour assault. Danish did not provide information on any civilian casualties. Afghan security personnel guard the site of the attack. ISIS Claims Responsibility ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack a few hours later in a statement released by ISIS' media wing, Amaq Agency. The Amaq statement did not provide the names or specify the number of attackers. Read More
If you're a female of menstruating age and you don't know what pre-period breast pain feels like, then go and buy a lottery ticket immediately. You're obviously a) extremely lucky and b) a member of the minority. For the rest of us, that pulsating, tender, heavy feeling is all too familiar, and it's the pits. So why exactly do your normally friendly boobs turn into your worst enemies at a certain time of the month? And is there anything you can do to get some relief? As with pretty much everything to do with your period, breast pain all comes down to hormones, Dr Judith Reddrop of Women’s Wellbeing told The Huffington Post Australia. "It's all due to hormonal fluxes in the menstrual cycle," Reddrop said. "Estrogen reaches a peak around the middle of your cycle, and progesterone reaches its peak the following week. "As it turns out, both are at very high levels during the second half of your cycle. It's like a hormone party in your breasts. "On top of that, breasts are particularly affected because they have estrogen and progesterone receptors, so they are especially picked on in that way." If you're wondering exactly how progesterone and estrogen affect your boobs (as if you didn't know already), they can make them swell, become congested, feel tender and, for some women, cause lumpiness. "It's not comfortable but there's a good biological reason for that happening, and it shows your hormones are working particularly efficiently," Reddrop said. In terms of actions you can take to minimise discomfort, Reddrop says there are plenty of things you can do (aside from clutching a hot water bottle to your chest and eating Ben and Jerry's out of the tub, though that's good too). "There are lots of lifestyle things you can do which really help. Obvious things, like having a well fitting bra or, if you're exercising, a good sports bra, are very important. "What a lot of people don't know is exercising the week before your period actually seems to help. Also, avoiding caffeine, as it tends to aggravate the symptoms. "If there's too much salt in your diet, this can lead to fluid retention which only makes the congestion feel worse." In terms of remedies, Reddrop recommends vitamins B1 and B6 (50 - 100 mg per day) as well as evening primrose oil, which she suggests particularly bad PMS sufferers take throughout the entirety of the cycle. "Vitamins B1 and B6 are involved in the hormonal pathways that manufacture your sex hormones, so they are known to help," Reddrop told HuffPost Australia. "Evening primrose oil works best if you take it continuously (recommended dosage: 1000 - 2000 mg per day) which might seem like a bother, but some people who get real problems might be motivated to do that. "When you're actually sore, Panadol or Nurofen or other anti-inflammatory medications can prove useful. "Or, if your symptoms are particularly bad, you might want to consult a medical practitioner about the possibility of going on the contraceptive pill, which obviously stops ovulation and helps to give you stable and continuous hormones. "That is quite a drastic measure but in some cases, ladies really need that additional help." As a final point, Reddrop states breast lumpiness prior to your period is generally nothing to be worried about, but if you're concerned, it's best to check your breasts after your period has ended. "The thing with sore breasts is, once the period starts, you'll find there is quite swift relief of the soreness and congestion," Reddrop said. "The best time to check your breasts [for lumps] is after the period has finished, when the breasts are at their quietest. "I wouldn't recommend conducting a breast check in the pre-menstrual time, because the breasts are having that hormone party they can feel quite lumpy. Don’t be alarmed. Just wait til the period is gone and check them then. "Of course anything unusual, such as bleeding from nipple or discharge, any changes like that will mean you need to see your doctor as soon as possible."
John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion who focuses on climate change and social justice. Follow him on Snapchat , Facebook and email . This story is part of a CNN series called " Vanishing ." Learn more about the sixth extinction and get involved. Nosy Andragnombala, Madagascar (CNN) It's 2 a.m. when the half-moon wakes Hary. He senses its gravitational pull -- feels the moon coaxing fish out of a nearby reef and into his fishing nets here at the edge of Africa. The 33-year-old fisherman seems to have an almost-telepathic relationship with the coral that surround this castaway island, which is little more than a heap of sand off the southwest coast of Madagascar. That relationship was passed down from his father, and it's one held by Vezo people here. That word -- Vezo -- is taken to mean "at struggle with the sea," and residents of Nosy Andragnombala define themselves by that struggle. At birth, their umbilical cords are placed in seashells and tossed as an offering into deep blue waters. They are part of the reef, and it is part of them. There's little else: No electricity or freshwater. No industry, no jobs, no school. If you don't know the reef -- can't feel its tides and sense its moods -- then you can't survive. And that makes what's happening on this island all the more tragic. The reef is disappearing. Coral have started turning white and dying. No one here understands why. Local theories abound. Was it that hurricane? A chemical spill? A curse? Moake, an older neighbor of Hary's, told me white coral snagged his fishing net one day. It spooked him, and now he won't return to that spot. "I've already seen the white coral but I don't know what's caused it to become white," Hary tells me. "I don't know whether it's something in the water that's caused it to turn white." Hary wakes well before dawn to cast fishing nets into the Mozambique Channel. Yet, he's seen clues. "There's a time when you see it," he says. "During the hot season." Scientists can explain the mystery of the white coral. But, frankly, I'm starting to see it as a curse, too. A curse you and I cooked up. 'And then we wept' By now, the storyline should be familiar: We humans are burning loads of fossil fuels and chopping down the rainforest, and that's causing the atmosphere to heat up rapidly. That's true regardless of who's in the White House. What's less understood is that the ocean is actually storing much of that heat. Beneath the surface, there's evidence of a mass extinction brewing. Coral are among the silent victims, and the results are undeniable. This year, amid record heat, 93% of the Great Barrier Reef experienced bleaching , the term used to describe sick coral that eject the bright-colored algae that live on them. Bleached coral turn white, and while they're not dead, they are suffocating. The colorful algae feed the coral with the oxygen and sugar they need to survive. With prolonged or repeated bleaching, coral begin to die, eventually turning to rubble or becoming smothered by plants. It doesn't help that adding CO2 to the atmosphere and ocean also makes the waters more acidic, and worse still for the survival of coral. CNN Map The consequences are truly stunning. Research indicates nearly all the world's coral reefs could be lost by 2050. This is just one sign of the sweeping changes we humans are inflicting on the natural world, and ultimately on ourselves. Biologists say we are on the verge of the Earth's sixth mass-extinction event -- something akin to the end of the dinosaurs. Anthony Barnosky, a researcher at Stanford, told me we have perhaps 20 years to change course -- including addressing climate change -- or three-quarters of the world's species could vanish in coming centuries. Overfishing and pollution also threaten coral in Madagascar. But climate change -- and the warming and ocean acidification that come with it -- is expected to land the soundest blow. To stop that, we need to eliminate net carbon pollution. Basically, that means purging fossil fuels from the global economy. If we fail, there will be dire consequences. Journalists often see the end of coral through the eyes of scientists. "I showed the results of aerial surveys of #bleaching on the #GreatBarrierReef to my students, And then we wept," Terry Hughes, a professor at Australia's James Cook University, wrote on Twitter in April. Or we focus on losses for the tourism industry, which could be considerable. Those perspectives matter. More critical, though, are the 275 million people who depend on coral reefs for survival. Hary and Lydia are raising six children. They can't afford to send them to school. They're people like Hary, his wife, Lydia, and the six children they're raising. Their fates are linked to a catastrophe we are helping to cause. 'My children can't eat' Hary stops by my tent on his midnight walk to the ocean. "Ooh-OOH! Ooh-OOH!" he calls. Translation: Get up, reporter dude. The fish are waiting. I stumble out of my sleeping bag, groggy and confused. Soon, we push off into the darkness of the Mozambique Channel in an outrigger canoe that Hary built by hand. Hary is in the back; the butt cheeks of his shorts are patched from years spent perched on the rails of the narrow boat. His second eldest son, Harizo, is up front. The 13-year-old is his dad's professional shadow. A blood-colored moon hangs on the southern horizon. Father and son are faint silhouettes against the midnight sky and charcoal sea. The air tastes of salt, and the lull of the waves feels almost womb-like. Most surreal: The waters are bioluminescent, so each stroke of the paddle causes twinkling constellations of light to swim across the reef below us, as if mirroring the stars. The scene is exhilarating, especially for a city dweller like me. In this moment I understand how completely tied Hary is to waters around the island. As we paddle away from shore, sea melting into the distant horizon, I think about the disaster unfolding below the hull of the boat: The reef already is dying. If we don't find anything out there, my children can't eat. Lydia, Nosy Andragnambala A local nonprofit called Blue Ventures has been doing scuba surveys of reef health in this area. Their divers found 70% of reefs were bleached in April, at the peak of a heatwave, which is attributed partly to El Niño but also to the warming trend we're causing by burning fossil fuels. Hary and the other fishermen know their catch is a fraction of what it once was. "We really suffer when we go a week without catching anything," he says. Their children cry from hunger, his wife, Lydia, tells me. "If we don't find anything out there," she says, "my children can't eat." 'Ways of the sea' Hary and Lydia's response to the crisis? Try harder. They're nothing if not resourceful. They moved to this island years ago because the reef on mainland Madagascar was too degraded -- and because the fishing was farther away. Hary lived out here with his father as a boy, and Lydia later joined him. They'd known each other as little kids in school. Neither was able to finish, though. They had to fish. They have four kids together and care for at least two others; one is the son of a relative who died. The village is home to a few dozen people, and many depend, at least in part, on Hary's catch for their own survival. Out here, people have to work together to make it. After putting his net in the water about 3 a.m. Hary makes it back at shore by about 5 a.m. He is out again at dawn to collect his nets, and then spends the afternoon on the water, casting a long line with 50 hooks on it into the deep ocean just beyond the barrier of the reef. In all, he spends about 12 hours per day at sea. Lydia and the kids are hard at work, too. If you walk around Nosy Andragnombala, you're sure to see tiny children building and playing with wooden toy boats. They whittle out the hull and mast and then attach scrap-plastic sails. The kids push these little boats out onto the waves, tapping them with sticks so they catch the wind just so. When the children are about 10 years old, Hary says, they'll be ready to fish out on the water. He won't need to teach them to sail, though. They'll already understand how wind and wood work together. Lydia searches reef flats near the island for octopus. Like other women on the island, Lydia hunts octopus and cooks. At dusk, she boils fish on a fire while the sun sets and humpback whales perform their lumbering acrobatics on the horizon. It's an idyllic place, but the struggle to live here is real. Several years ago, locals created an ocean reserve to protect the reef. They work with a village association to police the waters. Those efforts, combined with an intimate knowledge of the reef, make survival possible. But barely. One day, Lydia asks me, though an interpreter, if I want her to "teach me the ways of the sea." I do, of course. I slap some $12-a-bottle sunscreen on my face, and she leads me onto the ankle-deep reef flats, a spear in her hand and a notebook in mine. 'Hara, John!' Lydia is a woman defined by brightness. Her shirt is magenta, yellow and blue. Her smile is loud and infectious, and she paints her face with a paste of mashed-up mangrove seeds, turning it orange and protecting it from the sun. Her intellect shines, too. If you duck down and follow her into her home, whose footprint is about the size of three queen mattresses and often sleeps eight, you'll notice two pieces of butcher paper pinned to the thatched walls. On them: English words translated into phonetics and then into Vezo, the local language. "Water = oatere = rano." "Fish = fise = fia." "This is our octopus reserve = Dise ize ore aketapose rezeriva = Ato misy ty rezeriva horita nay." She has been learning English in case a visitor showed up someday. "Photo, John! Photo!" Lydia points at a black urchin in the ankle-deep water. Each time she sees something new -- especially spiky, don't-step-on-that stuff, like an urchin -- she gestures frantically and insists I take a photo and write down the Vezo word for the creature in my notebook. "John, photo!" A round, pink urchin. "Photo!" Some greenish blob that apparently will kill you. "Horita!" That's an octopus, which she identifies by noticing the way the creature has arranged a pile of rocks, just so, in front of its secret den. The spot is completely unremarkable to me until she dips her spear into the hole and then twists it gently, like a baker rolling bread sticks. A tentacle emerges and wraps itself around the stick. Lydia pulls the creature out, notes that it is large enough to harvest sustainably (she won't take small octopuses because she worries about depleting the reef; and the community has established its own reef management system to try to protect its natural resources) and then stabs the tip of the spear through its Jell-O head. A black ink cloud puddles in the water. She ties the octopus to a bright blue string and drags it like a rag doll. The tour continues. Local coral is damaged for many reasons, but climate change could deliver the knock-out punch. "Hara, John!" Hara means coral. Lydia points at one piece of healthy coral in a mess of rubble, a vast expanse of reef that looks something like the ruins of an ancient city. It stretches on like almost as far as I can see, a few live coral here and there, but mostly khaki, beige and gray. It is heartbreaking to see this rubble. Especially juxtaposed against her enthusiasm. 'Don't touch it' I struggle with whether or how to engage Hary and Lydia in a conversation about climate change and the white coral -- this foreign curse that understandably makes little sense out here. How do you tell someone that factories and cars and deforestation on the other side of the world are slowly heating up the entire planet, warming the ocean, making it more acidic, and messing up reefs worldwide? It's a tricky concept even for those of us who are climate culprits, who live in polluted cities and burn coal to pump electricity and air conditioning into our homes. Out here, there are no factories, no air pollution, no cars or roads. Lydia says she's only been in a car once in her life, and it was to take her son to another family member's funeral. Her son cried, she says, because he didn't understand what was happening. Only one or two cell phones (solar powered) exist on the island, and there's a single dusty television set. Its owner uses it mostly to play Kung Fu movies from a USB stick for the island's kids. Yet, this is an existential crisis. To be Vezo, according to some, you have to work on the water. This place -- and its culture -- could vanish with the reef. I ask James Paul, a diver who surveys reefs in this area for Blue Ventures, and is Vezo himself, how he handles local conversations about climate change. It's difficult, he says. "I tell them just be careful, it's sick. Don't touch it. If you touch it, it's dead quick." Of course, there are solutions. But if you're on an island with essentially no carbon footprint there isn't much you can do to prevent global warming -- aside from sharing your story. Their only real hope is for us to listen. 'We're as good as dead' I invite Lydia to sit down on a sand dune to talk about all this. I feel like the prophet of doom. I tell her that people like me on the other side of the world -- people who are addicted to dirty energy sources, like coal and oil, and who drive around in cars and make things in factories that billow black smoke -- have a hand in turning the coral here white. Lydia is a master at finding and identifying ocean creatures. Yes, there are local problems contributing to problems with the coral. The cyclone that almost killed her son destroyed some coral, and overfishing plays a role. But scientists say people like me must change or coral reefs all over the world -- not just here -- will disappear. She stares at me -- more in disbelief than anger. Then she laughs, seemingly to cover the discomfort. "We're as good as dead," she says. "There'll be no more ocean livelihoods when the coral turns white." "It scares me, people far away are causing this," she adds, rightly. "It's like they're the ones sending us this heat, which is destroying the coral. So what happens if there's something else they do or make that causes death here?" She worries about her children. Before Hary's mother died two years ago, some of her kids lived with their grandmother on the mainland so they could attend classes. But after she died the family couldn't afford it, she tells me, so they had to come back to the island. ( School, by the way, costs only $3 per month per child , but the family earns too little.) She wants her children to grow up Vezo -- to know the ocean -- but she also wants them to have options. Without an education, what other career options will they have? What happens to them if all the coral turns white? She turns to our translator and asks a question about me and a CNN videographer. "So when they go back home, they'll teach people what they've learned here? They'll tell people about what they've seen? They'll tell people this is what life is like in Madagascar?" She trails off. "Maybe there are just too many cars where they're from." I tell her the reason I've come is to tell her story. And that yes, I hope that when people turn on their lights or start their cars or get on airplanes (or, most importantly, vote for public officials who care about this) that they will think about a tiny island in Madagascar. About people whose lives are threatened by the curse of the white coral. But, secretly, I worry about those of us causing the curse. Will we actually care enough to stop? Side to side The night after that conversation I wake up with a piercing headache. I'd been dreaming about swimming down a pristine canal that suddenly turns into an industrial wasteland. Blue water turns brown and smells of gasoline. Smoke fills the air. Nosy Andragnambala is located off the coast of Madagascar, a large island nation in eastern Africa. When I awake, I realize the smell of gas is real. I unzip the tent and walk into a stiff wind, toward the beach. The horizon glimmers the color of peach, the first sign of dawn. Where is that smell coming from? I can almost taste the tang of gasoline in my mouth. But how can that be? There are no motors on the island. Then I see it. Our boat, with its 25-horsepower Yamaha engine. We used the motor to cut across the Mozambique Channel to this island in an hour, as opposed to the three or four or five needed to cross by sail. The irony didn't hit me at the time. I figured we would need the motorboat to maximize the reporting we'd do. We're as good as dead. There'll be no more ocean livelihoods when the coral turns white. Lydia, Nosy Andragnambala We make these choices by default. Too often, we don't see them or smell them -- don't actually feel the results of our actions. That's particularly true of climate change, since the effects are both diffuse and long term. Our actions now determine the type of world Lydia's great-great-great-great-great grandchildren will inherit. Climate change is sinister that way. There are signs of progress. We're moving into the clean-energy era. Technology is helping. But all this is happening at a glacial pace. And it doesn't help that US President-elect Donald Trump has threatened to scrap the Paris Agreement, which aims to get the world to ditch fossil fuels and limit warming to 2 degrees Celsius. Will we do enough to save the coral -- and so many other species? We depend on them more than we know. I walk around the boat to get some fresh air, blowing in straight from the sea. I sit down to watch the sunrise. A flock of birds hold formation in the wind. Crabs with little telescoping eyes skitter side to side in the sand. A hunk of dead coral is at my feet. We are scheduled to leave Nosy Andragnombala in a day. The scent of gasoline will evaporate then. But our mark remains.
Story highlights Cocoa flavanols have been shown to help lower blood pressure and cholesterol, improve cognition Limit portions to 1 ounce of dark chocolate daily (CNN) Yes, dark chocolate has compounds that offer health benefits and can be enjoyed without guilt, even on a daily basis. But the portion size matters, since too many bites can contribute extra fat, sugar and calories and negate its health benefits. Dark chocolate is rich in cocoa solids, which contain compounds known as flavanols. At high levels, cocoa flavanols have been shown to help lower blood pressure and cholesterol, improve cognition and possibly lower the risk of diabetes. Dark chocolate has the highest amount of cocoa flavanols; milk chocolate has less, and white chocolate has none. But while cocoa flavanols in dark chocolate make it a healthful treat, they give it a bitter flavor. Manufacturers may process chocolate to make it more palatable, but doing so can remove some of these beneficial compounds Factors in processing, including fermentation and roasting, which deepen the flavor and give chocolate its distinct aroma, can affect flavanol content, explained Matt Hartings, assistant professor of chemistry at American University. "Roasting generates all sorts of new flavors ... and to generate those flavors, you have to destroy molecules in the unroasted bean ... and there is always the chance that it is destroying compounds that we want around, including flavanols," Hartings said. Read More
Story highlights The former senior adviser to President Obama recalls when Scalia asked for the appointment of a justice who is a stalwart liberal Scalia knew Obama wouldn't pick a conservative, so he lobbied for a friend, Elena Kagan, Axelrod says David Axelrod is CNN's senior political commentator and host of the podcast "The Axe Files." He was senior adviser to President Barack Obama and chief strategist for the 2008 and 2012 Obama campaigns. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) When the shocking news of Justice Antonin Scalia's passing hit Saturday night, my mind raced back to a White House Correspondents Association dinner seven years ago, when we were seated together. David Axelrod We bantered about my hometown of Chicago, where he had taught law before ascending to the bench. He opined on wine and music and generally lived up to his reputation as a man who told and enjoyed a good story. And then our conversation took an unexpected turn. Justice David Souter, Scalia's longtime colleague on the court, had just announced his retirement, creating a vacancy for President Obama to fill. Scalia figured that as senior adviser to the new president, I might have some influence on the decision -- or at least enough to pass along a message. Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, who was found dead on Saturday, February 13, was one of the most influential conservative justices in history. He was 79. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos President Ronald Reagan announces the nomination of Scalia to the Supreme Court on June 17, 1986, as a result of Chief Justice Warren E. Burger's retirement. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia works in his office in Washington on July 28, 1986. Scalia, who was appointed in 1986, was the longest-serving justice on the Supreme Court. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia appears before the Senate Judiciary Committee during his confirmation hearings in Washington on August 6, 1986. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia, seen in a 1986 photo, was the first justice of Italian-American heritage and passed through confirmation with a unanimous vote. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Retiring Chief Justice Warren Burger, right, administers the oath to Scalia, as Scalia's wife, Maureen, holds the Bible on September 26, 1986. Scalia was the 103rd person to sit on the court. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos U.S. Supreme Court justices pay their respects in front of the casket of former Chief Justice Warren E. Burger during a prayer ceremony in the Great Hall at the Supreme Court Building in Washington on June 28, 1995. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia speaks to a crowd gathered at the Religious Freedom Monument in Fredericksburg, Virginia, to celebrate Religious Freedom Day on January 12, 2003. Scalia complained that courts have gone overboard in keeping God out of government. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia shakes hands with U.S. Marines Corps Maj. Gen. Robert C. Dickerson, commanding general, upon Scalia's arrival at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, for an official visit on March 12, 2004. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia speaks to Presbyterian Christian High School students in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, April 7, 2004. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos The casket of Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist lies in the Great Hall of the U.S. Supreme Court as Scalia and Sandra Day O'Connor, left, walk past on September 6, 2005, in Washington. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Members of the U.S. Supreme Court, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Justice Stephen Breyer, Justice Clarence Thomas, Justice David Souter, Justice William Kennedy, Justice Antonin Scalia, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor and Justice John Paul Stevens file out of the U.S. Supreme Court Building to attend funeral services for Chief Justice William Rehnquist on September 7, 2005, in Washington. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Surrounded by security, Scalia walks in the annual Columbus Day Parade on October 10, 2005, in New York City. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia calls on people during a question-and-answer period at the American Enterprise Institute on February 21, 2006, in Washington. Scalia delivered the keynote address about foreign law and the debate about how it is used in American Law during the seminar called "Outsourcing Of American Law." Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Heather Myklegard, Scalia, Dirk Kempthorne and U.S. President George W. Bush walk through the Rose Garden before Kempthorne is sworn in as the new interior secretary at White House on June 7, 2006, in Washington. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia listens as U.S. President George W. Bush speaks at the the Federalist Society's 25th Anniversary Gala Dinner at Union Station in Washington, on November 15, 2007. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia speaks during the American Bar Association's 59th annual antitrust law spring meeting in Washington on March 31, 2011. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia testifies during a hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee on October 5, 2011. The justice testified on "Considering the Role of Judges Under the Constitution of the United States." Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia and his wife, Maureen, arrive for a state dinner in honor of British Prime Minister David Cameron at the White House on March 14, 2012, in Washington. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia conducts a naturalization ceremony for 16 new U.S. citizens during the commemoration of the 150th anniversary of President Abraham Lincoln's historic Gettysburg Address on November 19, 2013, at Gettysburg National Military Park in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos U.S. President Barack Obama greets Supreme Court Justices Clarence Thomas, Antonin Scalia, Sonia Sotomayor, Anthony Kennedy and John Roberts at Obama's inauguration for his second term of office. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Justice Antonin Scalia's life in photos Scalia speaks at the University of Minnesota as part of the law school's Stein Lecture series on October 20, 2015, in Minneapolis. Hide Caption 22 of 22 "I have no illusions that your man will nominate someone who shares my orientation," said Scalia, then in his 23rd year as the court's leading and most provocative conservative voice. "But I hope he sends us someone smart." Read More
Watch "We Will Rise: Michelle Obama's Mission to Educate Girls Around the World" on CNN International on October 11 and on CNN on October 12. (CNN) Some 62 million girls around the world are not in school, according to the U.S. Agency for International Development. But you can empower these girls by helping them receive an education in a safe environment. First lady Michelle Obama is on a mission to help young women achieve their potential through Let Girls Learn , an initiative she co-founded in 2015. The US government initiative provides access to education, especially in areas of conflict such as Afghanistan or Nigeria. The following organizations are working to educate girls:
“Sadly, based on the tremendous anger and open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting,” Trump wrote in a letter to Kim, which was sent to reporters. President Donald Trump on Thursday canceled a scheduled June 12 summit in Singapore with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un after recent sparring between the two countries over the planned nuclear talks. South Korean officials appeared blindsided by the announcement. “We are attempting to make sense of what, precisely, President Trump means,” said spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom, according to The Washington Post’s Anna Fifield. South Korean President Moon Jae-In urged both Trump and Kim to hold direct talks, South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency reported. It’s also unclear whether State Department officials were aware of Trump’s decision before he released the letter. When asked if the announcement came as a surprise, a staffer in the office that works on North Korea issues said he had to check with State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert. Speaking at the White House later Thursday, Trump said he had just spoken with military officials, as well as the leaders of South Korea and Japan. They are “ready for foolish or reckless acts be taken by North Korea,” he said, adding that “an unfortunate situation is forced upon us.” “Hopefully positive things will be taking place with respect to the future of North Korea. If they don’t, we are more ready than we have ever been before,” he said, apparently a threat of military action. On a call with reporters, a senior White House official asserted that Trump “had constant communication with our allies,” but did not explain why U.S. allies were caught off guard. The official did not say whether Trump and Kim had spoken directly. Of the letter, the official said Trump had “dictated every word himself.” Trump’s announcement came hours after North Korean officials threatened to cancel the summit, angered by recent comments from Vice President Mike Pence and national security adviser John Bolton, who compared North Korea with Libya.
Guy Verhofstadt, a former Belgian prime minister, is president of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Group (ALDE) in the European Parliament. The opinions in this article are those of the author. (CNN) On Tuesday evening, members of the European Parliament representing the broad church of the European Parliament's political families -- of which I was one, as the president of the Liberal and Democrat grouping -- gathered in Brussels to question embattled Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg . The session took place in light of revelations about the misuse of European citizens' data following the Cambridge Analytica scandal, amid allegations of widespread election and referenda interference and allegations of non-compliance with EU data security legislation. After numerous requests for testimony, Mr. Zuckerberg finally agreed to answer a few questions from each of the politicians in attendance, under a prearranged format that was doomed to disappoint both the public and journalists alike. The fact that the session amounted to considerably less time than was offered to US legislators in the Senate and Congress did not go unnoticed. In the end, Mr. Zuckerberg refused to answer almost all of the questions posed, instead accepting an offer to submit written answers to my questions and those of fellow parliamentarians. In just over 90 minutes, Mr. Zuckerberg rattled out a stream of apologies mixed with pleas for patience and promises to investigate the breaches and harvesting of EU citizens' data, the infiltration of dark ads and fake accounts sowing discord online. Fundamental questions remained unanswered. The Facebook CEO offered apologies for past mistakes. But in my view, saying sorry and promising to fix mistakes isn't enough when our democratic processes are being undermined. The more I heard from Mr. Zuckerberg, the more he reminded me of the fictional character Mr. Kalden from the book "The Circle," the owner of a big data company which grew out of his control and ended up facilitating the manipulation of elections and distorting democratic processes. While the buck stops with Mr. Zuckerberg as the CEO of Facebook, European institutions have also dramatically failed to implement their own data protection safeguards. Both now have to answer the following questions: The case of Facebook and Cambridge Analytica was known for months, if not years. Why didn't data protection authorities in Europe act sooner? Why haven't EU-based users of Facebook been individually informed whether their data was misused -- and will the necessary compensation be forthcoming? How many other companies have played fast and loose with our data protection regulations? Is Facebook tracking the data browsing history of people who logged off or are not even Facebook users? If so, why? Facebook enjoys an unprecedented monopoly position; will the EU anti-trust authorities investigate and will Facebook cooperate? JUST WATCHED Internet roasts Zuckerberg for 'booster seat' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Internet roasts Zuckerberg for 'booster seat' 01:55 In an era of big data, politicians -- who often lack the technical knowledge required to understand how big tech operates -- are playing catch up. European regulators and legislators must now embark on a thorough review of European laws covering data protection, fake news and online platforms. Mr. Zuckerberg's testimony came in the same week that the EU's General Data Protection Regulation enters into force, setting a new global standard for consumer data privacy. However, there are already fears that Facebook has taken steps to at best mitigate the protections detailed in the GDPR legislation and at worse, to evade its provisions. We need Mr. Zuckerberg to explain in detail how he uses the US-EU Privacy Shield agreement to transfer data to the US, and why he chooses to export the data of Facebook users to another jurisdiction, outside the EU, by changing the terms of their contract with users. This contrasts rather sharply with his promise to apply European GDPR standards even outside of the EU. Following this week's hearing, the prospect of tighter EU legislation on a range of issues has now increased markedly. For too long we have stood by as our online platforms, increasingly the prominent source of news for citizens in our democracies, is polluted by foreign state and non-state actors who wish to sow disinformation and leverage division in our societies for their own ends. This has to end, which is why I welcome calls by French President Emmanuel Macron to clamp down on the proliferation of online fake news. Mr. Zuckerberg has committed to take concrete measures to ban all bots and guarantee that bots cannot misuse Facebook's platform. If this action is not forthcoming, it will strengthen the case for stricter regulation. The health of European democracy should be reliant on European legislation and the safeguards that democratically elected governments have developed, not the scout's honor of an American CEO, no matter how powerful or wealthy.
(CNN) Here is a look at the life of soccer player Lionel "Leo" Messi, who plays for FC Barcelona and Argentina's national team. Personal: Birth date: June 24, 1987 Birth place: Rosario, Argentina Birth name: Lionel Andrés Messi Father: Jorge Messi, factory worker Mother: Celia Cuccittini de Messi Children: Ciro, Mateo and Thiago Won the European Golden Shoe award four times: 2009-10, 2011-12 , 2012-13 and 2016-17. As a young boy, Messi was diagnosed with a growth hormone deficiency. At age 13, he signed with Futbol Club Barcelona and moved to Spain. As part of the contract, FC Barcelona agreed to pay for Messi's hormone treatments. Timeline: 1995-2000 - Plays for the local club team, Newell's Old Boys, in Rosario, Argentina. 2000-2003 - Signs with FC Barcelona and works his way up through Barca's youth squads. November 16, 2003 - Makes his team debut , as a replacement in a friendly match against FC Porto. 2007 - Establishes the Establishes the Leo Messi Foundation , working to improve access to education and health care for children. August 2008 - Leads Argentina's soccer team to a gold medal at the Leads Argentina's soccer team to a gold medal at the Summer Olympics in Beijing. March 11, 2010 - Messi is announced as a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador. 2011-2012 season - Sets the all-time record for most goals scored in a single season for a major European football league, Sets the all-time record for most goals scored in a single season for a major European football league, with 73 goals. June 2013 - Prosecutors in Barcelona file tax fraud charges against Messi and his father for the period between 2007 and 2009. The complaint alleges that Messi and his father, aiming to lower their Spanish tax bill, sought to manage the player's lucrative income from image rights through shell companies set up overseas. Messi denies all allegations of wrongdoing. August 14, 2013 - Messi and his father, Jorge Messi, make a "reparatory" payment of €5 million ($6.6 million) to Spanish authorities for allegedly committing tax fraud between 2007 and 2009. Messi and his father, Jorge Messi, make a "reparatory" payment of €5 million ($6.6 million) to Spanish authorities for allegedly committing tax fraud between 2007 and 2009. March 16, 2014 - Scores a hat-trick (three goals during a game), to become FC Barcelona's all-time leading scorer with 371 goals, eclipsing the record set by Paulino Alcantara, who scored 369 goals. Scores a hat-trick (three goals during a game), to become FC Barcelona's all-time leading scorer with 371 goals, eclipsing the record set by Paulino Alcantara, who scored 369 goals. May 2014 - Signs a new contract with FC Barcelona for a reported annual net of €20 million ($27 million). June 2014 - A Spanish state prosecutor asks the judge to drop the tax fraud charges against Lionel Messi, but not his father. July 13, 2014 - Messi wins the Golden Ball award for the best player of the Messi wins the Golden Ball award for the best player of the World Cup tournament. July 28, 2014 - A judge rules that the tax fraud case against Messi and his father will proceed, despite the Spanish state prosecutor's June request that the charges against Messi be dropped. November 22, 2014 - Messi scores a hat-trick (three goals during a game) Messi scores a hat-trick (three goals during a game) to become the Spanish league's all-time leading goalscorer with 253 goals , surpassing Telmo Zarra's previous record of 251 goals. October 8, 2015 - A Spanish court rules that Messi and his father will stand trial for tax fraud charges. May 31, 2016 - The tax fraud trial begins for Messi and his father. The tax fraud trial begins for Messi and his father. June 27, 2016 - Says he probably will retire from international soccer after Argentina loses the Copa America final to Chile on penalties. Says he probably will retire from international soccer after Argentina loses the Copa America final to Chile on penalties. July 6, 2016 - A Barcelona court fines Messi €2 million ( A Barcelona court fines Messi €2 million ( $2.3 million) and also sentences him to 21 months in prison for tax fraud. However, because this is the first time Messi has committed an offense he is not expected to serve jail time as long as he doesn't break the law again. The Spanish courts officially reduce Messi's prison sentence to an additional €252,000 ($287,000) fine in July 2017. August 12, 2016 - Messi announces that he will play for Argentina once again, having stated in June that he would retire from soccer. Messi announces that he will play for Argentina once again, having stated in June that he would retire from soccer. June 2017 - Is ranked Is ranked number three on Forbes' list of the world's highest paid athletes, with estimated earnings of $80 million.
Almost 36,000 feet underwater, near the very bottom of the world’s deepest ocean trench, scientists came across a troubling find: a plastic bag, similar to one you might take home from a supermarket, lying incongruously in the darkness. A recent study on deep-sea ocean pollution identified the bag, found in 1998 by a robotic submersible at a depth of 35,756 feet in the Mariana Trench, as the deepest known piece of plastic trash on Earth. Scientists say its presence in one of the world’s most remote environments signals just how worryingly pervasive plastic pollution has become. And the problem isn’t limited to a single plastic bag. For the study, researchers from Japan, together with scientists from UN Environment’s World Conservation Monitoring Center, combed through the Deep-Sea Debris Database, a massive Japanese library of deep-sea photos and videos taken on more than 5,000 dives over the course of 30 years. The database was made public in 2017. What they found was a disturbing amount of trash clogging deep-sea environments, including the Japan Trench and the Mariana Trench, as well as deep-sea areas in the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic oceans. The scientists said the images they scoured showed more than 3,400 pieces of debris. More than one-third of the waste they counted was made of plastic ― a staggering 89 percent of which was single-use items like plastic bags, packaging and bottles. In environments deeper than 19,000 feet, more than half of the debris logged by the study was plastic ― and almost all of the plastic found at those depths was single-use. “The ubiquitous distribution of single-use plastic, even to the greatest depths of the ocean, reveal a clear link between daily human activities and the remotest of environments,” UN Environment said in a statement last month.
Leah Millis/Reuters “We do not allow hate groups on Facebook, overall,” according to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. While his genius may be largely uncontested, Mark Zuckerberg’s vision of Facebook is badly adrift from reality. He paints the social media behemoth he founded in 2004 as a tool “to bring the world closer together,” but in many ways, it has become an indispensable amplification device for people who want to make it known that they hate other people. Testifying before Congress last Wednesday, Zuckerberg declared: “We do not allow hate groups on Facebook, overall.” As with many things the Facebook CEO said during his trip to the Hill last week, it was difficult to square this statement with the actual experience of using Facebook. Angry observers were quick to point to anti-Muslim, anti-Semitic, anti-Rohingya, anti-LGBTQ and other hateful groups actively operating on the platform. Zuckerberg’s claim hit a nerve for me as well. Two months ago, a private Facebook group devoted to alt-right Trump memes inaugurated a campaign of sexual harassment against me. When alerted to the situation, Facebook’s response was, essentially, ¯\_(ツ)_/¯. Facebook/Emperor Trumps Dank Meme Stash The cover photo for the closed Facebook group "Emperor Trumps Dank Meme Stash." On Feb. 13, I awoke to find a stream of friend requests on Facebook and a startling message from a man I did not know: “There is some random weirdo posting pictures of you.” He sent me a screenshot of a photo posted in the private Facebook group “Emperor Trumps Dank Meme Stash,” which had more than 72,000 members at the time. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter YouTube Pinterest Snapchat Instagram CLOSE There I was: standing on the beach in Oahu, wearing shorts, a bikini top and a cardigan. I loved that photo ― it was a reminder of a day spent hiking and swimming with my family during our first vacation together in years. I posted it on Facebook last April. I was stunned as I stared at it almost a year later, along with my full name, literally hundreds of comments and a caption that read: “This is going to be a hard one guys. Huffington Post reporter, smash or pass?” Facebook A cropped copy of my photo posted in "Emperor Trumps Dank Meme Stash." Immediately, I requested permission to join the closed group and was directed to answer two questions for approval by its administrators: “Where do you fall on the cuck spectrum?” and “Are you a normie?” I turned back to the man who had alerted me to the photo and asked him to send me screenshots of as many of the responses as possible, so I could email them to the appropriate representatives at Facebook. As is common in the publishing industry, HuffPost and Facebook work closely on products, partnerships and other shared objectives. “It is a lot of comments,” he warned. “None of them are nice.” Facebook Screenshots of comments left on the "smash or pass" photo, including "smash with a bat for being a cunt." It’s difficult to describe how it feels to discover hundreds of complete strangers debating how fuckable you are. Or to see them casually suggest they’d like to “smash,” “pump” and “skullfuck” you as an apparent form of punishment for your gender and job title. Dozens of my friends and coworkers reported the group to Facebook. Several hours later, Facebook responded to them with a message saying it had discovered content that “doesn’t follow our Community Standards.” It added: “We removed that specific content … instead of the entire group.” But subsequent screenshots showed my photo was still there. A staff manager at HuffPost also contacted Facebook directly to request that the post be taken down as quickly as possible. His message contained the screenshots of comments and stressed the matter’s urgency. Two days later, a representative followed up and asked him for the link to the post with the photo, which was inaccessible to anyone who did not belong to the private group (and which I had failed to obtain from the growing swarm of “trolls” in my inbox). The Facebook representative said that without the link, not much could be done. So the harassment continued, and it worsened. Facebook "Shoot some conservative values all over her tits," one commenter wrote. As my account was flooded with creepy messages and friend requests (now 890 and counting), one of my colleagues wrote a public Facebook post asking others to report the group, hoping that it might expedite the process of getting my picture removed. Soon enough, the trolls found her profile, too. “We’ll just post your pic and do a smash or pass,” one man wrote on her status below two other nasty comments. Another appeared in her inbox: “SMASH.” It was clear that she was also being targeted in “Emperor Trumps Dank Meme Stash.” She deactivated her account. My photo remained posted in the group for at least six days ― long enough for it to garner even more attention and be shared to at least three other pages. So after nearly a week of apparent inaction from Facebook, I got in touch with one of the group’s administrators, who can review reports about members’ posts, remove content and revoke membership as they please. He told me that the picture might have “flown under the radar.” “Don’t blame me,” he said, after assuring me he had taken the photo down. “Blame Facebook for their stupid reporting system.” When I asked him to let me join the group, so I could see for myself that it was gone, he refused. Facebook "Only if she gets deported over the wall, or dropped off at a refugee camp immediately afterwards," someone wrote. With a growing network of more than 2 billion users around the globe, Facebook’s role in shaping the way we communicate online cannot be easily overstated. It has public policies in place to penalize those who violate its Community Standards (including posts containing nudity, hate speech and violent or graphic content). These users may have their content removed or their accounts disabled, or may even be reported to law enforcement. Moderating hate speech is an issue “that we struggle with continuously,” Zuckerberg said last week. “There’s a lot of content flowing through the systems and a lot of reports, and, unfortunately, we don’t always get these things right when people report it to us.” He vowed that Facebook would have “more than 20,000 people working on security and content review across the company” by the end of the year, acknowledging that “no amount of people that we can hire will be enough to review all of the content.” But instead of advocating for more moderators, pundits have long been calling for greater transparency surrounding the organization’s internal content review standards to ensure consistent enforcement and accountability ― a plea many say has fallen on deaf ears. Facebook "Smash with a ballgag so she doesn't speak." A Guardian investigation into leaked documents from Facebook, including private guidelines for content moderation, revealed last year that phrases like “To snap a bitch’s neck, make sure to apply all your pressure to the middle of her throat” are allowed, while others like “Someone shoot Trump” are not. The report noted that moderators often have “just 10 seconds” to make a decision when evaluating material. It also said many have concerns about “the inconsistency and peculiar nature of some of the policies,” especially those regarding sexual content. Experts have cautioned that inadequate moderation practices can have serious consequences, such as fostering a culture of online impunity ― leading sites like Facebook to become breeding grounds and safe havens for harassment. Whereas trolls used to work under the cover of relative anonymity on sites like 4chan and Reddit, many of the Facebook users who commented on my photo and sent me grotesque messages, astonishingly, felt comfortable enough to do so using their real profiles ― with their real names, photos, locations and even places of employment listed. Facebook "Smash so hard she goes conservative."
Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump lambasted "Chuck and Nancy" and told supporters in Tennessee at a rally on Tuesday that Democratic Senate candidate Phil Bredesen would do the bidding of Democratic congressional leaders. Trump was in Nashville to campaign for Bredesen's Republican opponent, Rep. Marsha Blackburn, in the race to replace the retiring Sen. Bob Corker. "I never heard of this guy, who is he? Who is he?" Trump said of Bredesen. "He's an absolute, total tool of Chuck -- of Chuck Schumer. He's a tool of Chuck Schumer and of course the MS-13 lover Nancy Pelosi." Bredesen is, in fact, a popular former Nashville mayor and Tennessee governor, but he last ran for public office in 2006. He has led Blackburn in recent polls. Trump latched Bredesen to Schumer, the Senate minority leader, and Pelosi, the House minority leader, as well as former President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. "If Bredesen were ever to get elected," Trump said, "he would do whatever Chuck and Nancy -- remember the term, 'Chuck and Nancy?' They don't want the wall, they want open borders, they're more interested in taking care of criminals than they are of taking care of you -- Bredesen donated a lot of money to the campaigns of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton." "Crooked Hillary," Trump added, as the crowd chanted "lock her up." Trump also claimed that Pelosi "loves MS-13," the gang whose members Trump claimed are being deported "by the thousands." Pelosi criticized the President's use of the term "animals," although it appeared she was referencing reports that suggested Trump was referring to all undocumented immigrants. Trump says he was referring to MS-13 gang members when he used the term. Reached for comment, Drew Hammill, deputy chief of staff for Pelosi, responded to Trump's comments by pointing to a PolitiFact article that said Trump's claim that Pelosi came out in favor of MS-13 was false. Trump also turned his reference to members of the MS-13 gang as "animals" into a campaign rallying cry. "They're not human beings. They're not human beings. And this is why we call the blood-thirsty MS-13 gang members exactly the name I used last week," Trump said. "What was the name?" he asked. "Animals," the crowd responded. Trump is popular in Tennessee too. He trounced Hillary Clinton there in 2016, winning 61% of the vote to Clinton's 35%. A recent Vanderbilt University poll showed that Trump has a 53% approval rating, with 43% disapproving of his performance. The Tennessee race has major implications for control of the Senate, where Republicans have a 51 to 49 majority and can afford a net loss of just one seat in November's midterm elections. Democrats are eyeing Nevada, Arizona, Tennessee and even potentially Texas as possible pick-up opportunities. But the party is also defending 10 seats in states Trump won in 2016 -- five of which Trump won by double digits. Corker greeted Trump at the airport in Nashville and attend the night's events with the President. When Trump introduced Corker at the rally, he was met with audible boos from the audience. Corker had been a thorn in Republicans' side in the race to replace him, calling Bredesen a friend and only offering a tepid endorsement of Blackburn. For Trump, the trip to Tennessee comes as part of a ramped-up midterm travel schedule. He has recently hit the road to rail against endangered Senate Democrats, including Indiana's Joe Donnelly and West Virginia's Joe Manchin. Trump also repeated his 2016 campaign pledge that Mexico will pay for the construction of a wall along the United States' southern border. "In the end, Mexico is going to pay for the wall, I'm just telling you that," he said, pointing to negotiations to change the North American Free Trade Agreement. He blamed the Mexican government for a recent caravan of Central American migrants who arrived at the US border seeking asylum. "They make all of this money, and they do absolutely nothing to stop people from going through Mexico from Honduras and all these other countries -- the caravan, all of this stuff -- they do nothing to help us, nothing," Trump added. "They're going to pay for the wall and they're going to enjoy it, OK? They're going to enjoy it. They do nothing for us." Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto responded on Twitter Tuesday night. "President @realDonaldTrump: NO. Mexico will NEVER pay for a wall. Not now, not ever. Sincerely, Mexico (all of us)."
Story highlights Tackle football remains a popular sport for children, despite parents' safety concerns 982,000 children ages 6 to 12 played tackle football in the US in 2016, survey said The Parent Curve offers a look at the norms and numbers around tough decisions parents face. Where are you on the curve? (CNN) As safety concerns such as spinal injuries, concussions and chronic traumatic encephalopathy have emerged around college football and the NFL in recent years, some parents have questioned whether to start their kids in the beloved pastime. But is that really keeping them away? In 2016, an estimated 982,000 US children ages 6 to 12 were core participants in tackle football, according to a Sports and Fitness Industry Association survey conducted on more than 24,000 individuals and households. The number includes any child, boy or girl, who has participated in tackle football 26 or more times a year, whether it is through football organizations, school or even pickup games, the association said. The Parent Curve offers a look at the norms and numbers around tough decisions parents face. Where are you on the curve? That's a 1.8% dip in participation since 2011 -- between 2012 and 2014, youth participation was shrinking by the tens of thousands each year -- but numbers have started to grow, including a 1.7% increase from 2015 to 2016. Read More
(CNN) Congressional Republicans spent last weekend huddling with President Trump at Camp David to frame their legislative agenda in 2018. But they have already placed the bets most likely to determine their fate in November's midterm election, as a series of dramatic events late last week demonstrated. Two of their biggest decisions over the past year already loom over the upcoming election. The first has been to align more closely with Trump even as questions have mounted about both his basic fitness for the presidency and the potential legal exposure that he and his inner circle might face in the investigation of special counsel Robert Mueller. The second has been to pursue a policy agenda, on issues from taxes to health care to the environment, aimed almost entirely at the preferences of their party's conservative base, with strikingly few concessions to any voices or interests beyond their core coalition. Before November, the GOP might modulate each of these choices. But Republicans have engraved the fundamental outline of each direction so deeply over the past year that they are unlikely to be significantly altered. The decisions to increasingly lock arms with Trump and to pursue such a partisan agenda reflect the same political calculation. On each front, Republicans are placing the highest priority on maximizing unity and enthusiasm among their base voters -- even at the price of infuriating and energizing Democrats, and antagonizing more swing voters -- especially suburban college-educated whites. For voters anywhere on the continuum from ambivalent to alarmed about Trump, congressional Republicans are now sending a clear signal that they are far more inclined to empower than to constrain him. "During the campaign, they were making a bet -- and it's clear that it's a misplaced bet -- that once Trump became president they could control him and contain him and he would somehow rise above what he was during the campaign," said Pete Wehner, the director of strategic initiatives in the George W. Bush White House. "And it's been the opposite. Once they made that deal with the figurative devil, they were stuck. They are on the train and they don't think they can get off." JUST WATCHED Trump's 2017 victories and missteps Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's 2017 victories and missteps 09:24 A succession of rapid-fire events late last week encapsulated each of the GOP's two key wagers. Last Thursday morning came widespread excerpts from the scabrous new book by Michael Wolff, "Fire and Fury: Inside the White House," that alleged virtually all of the administration's officials privately mock Trump's capacity and despair over his impulsiveness and refusal to process almost any information they present him. Both Trump and the White House have dismissed the claims. But the charges -- deepened when Wolff's full book was released Friday and he appeared in his first television interviews -- underscored the President's greatest political vulnerability: the conclusion among many voters that he is not equipped -- by judgment, temperament, values or experience -- to meet the demands of his office. A few hours after Wolff's first revelations came another body blow: the report last Thursday night by The New York Times that Trump, through his White House counsel Donald McGahn, had pressured Attorney General Jeff Sessions not to recuse himself in the Russia probe. That reporting underscored the president's potential legal vulnerability to charges of obstruction of justice in Mueller's probe. So did a succession of spectacular charges in Wolff's book, including a report that Trump personally directed the misleading statement about the meeting of his son Donald Trump Jr. and other top advisers with Russians offering "dirt" on Hillary Clinton in June 2016. CNN has not independently verified all of the details in Wolff's book. Any of these revelations might have been expected to provoke alarms from congressional Republicans. But no leading Republican raised an eyebrow about the accusations in Wolff's book. And bookended around the reports of White House pressure on Sessions, House and Senate Republicans each pushed to intensify investigations not against Trump but rather the authors of the "dossier" that initially raised charges of Russian meddling and connections with his campaign. On Wednesday, House Speaker Paul Ryan sided with House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes, a fierce Trump defender, in demanding new documents from the Justice Department outlining how it handled the dossier. And on Friday, Republican Sens. Chuck Grassley and Lindsey Graham further raised the stakes by asking the Justice Department to open a criminal investigation against Christopher Steele, the former British spy who authored the dossier. This push to shift the investigative focus from Trump to his critics followed the broader direction among congressional Republicans, who are embracing the President more unreservedly, and defending him more reflexively, than they did when he took office. "It seems to me a pretty bottomless well," said Wehner, now a senior fellow at the conservative Ethics and Public Policy Center, and a frequent Trump critic. "If there is some line Trump can cross that can cause them to stand up to him, we haven't seen it." Sandwiched between the release of Wolff's excerpts and the McGahn reporting, the Trump administration issued a major policy announcement that helps explain that evolution. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke announced that the administration intends to open virtually all of the country's coastal waters to offshore drilling by oil companies. The plan proposed 47 lease sales over the next five years covering some 1.5 billion acres of offshore waters. In each case that was more than even President Ronald Reagan and his controversial interior secretary, James Watt, proposed in 1982 (41 lease sales and about 1 billion acres), before a bipartisan coalition in Congress forced them to retrench their plans in a landmark political battle of that era. JUST WATCHED Trump plans to roll back offshore drilling ban Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump plans to roll back offshore drilling ban 00:41 The offshore oil announcement fit the clear policy pattern of Trump's first year: It granted virtually every wish of a key component in the GOP coalition -- in this case the oil industry -- with virtually no concession to any interests outside that coalition, from environmentalists to the mostly Democratic governors of coastal states. The same uncompromising pattern has been evident in Trump's efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act; the administration's moves to rescind an array of Obama-era environmental and consumer safety regulations; Trump's succession of highly ideological federal judicial nominations; and the recently passed tax bill, which not only directed the vast majority of its benefits to the highest earners but also punished Democratic-leaning states by limiting the deductibility of state and local taxes. (For that reason, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo last week called the tax plan "economic civil war.") On elements of his America First nationalism -- particularly his skepticism about trade, legal immigration and foreign alliances -- Trump may eventually spark more resistance from mainstream Republicans and their allied business interests. But so far his willingness to advance so many long-standing conservative causes has clearly encouraged more Republicans initially skeptical about his fitness to lash themselves more tightly to his turbulent presidency. "You would have to say that the tax cut/corporate wing of the party has gotten what it signed up for and the social conservatives have certainly gotten what they signed up for," says William Galston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and former deputy domestic policy adviser to President Bill Clinton. "And the portion of the agenda that is being pursued through administrative action, rather than legislation, is very much in line with what a more traditional Republican conservative would have done. ... The coalition as it existed before Trump came on the scene is getting paid off big time." Given the policy rewards, both Wehner and Galston are dubious that almost any provocation from Trump could cause either congressional Republicans or the broader conservative movement to establish more independence from him, unless voters send a clear message of discontent in 2018. This approach increases the odds that the core Republican coalition will remain united heading into 2018 but magnifies the risk of alienating voters beyond it. Polls have shown that cornerstones of the Trump agenda -- led by the ACA repeal and the tax bill -- face enormous resistance from Democrats and independents. It was revealing that neither the ACA repeal effort, nor, even more remarkably, the tax cut bill, could draw support from a single Democrat in either chamber -- even though 10 Senate Democrats are seeking re-election in states Trump carried in 2016. Even more important, surveys have consistently found that Trump's performance in office has convinced a solid majority of Americans that he lacks the temperament , skills and even stability they expect in a president. By choosing not to provide any meaningful check or oversight on Trump, congressional Republicans risk convincing those dubious voters that the only way to constrain the president is through a Democratic-led Congress. Indeed, in a December national Quinnipiac Poll 56% of Americans said they believed Trump is not qualified to serve as president -- and fully 83% of those critics said they intended to vote Democratic for Congress. "What's happened now is a strong majority of the country has decided that they deeply oppose Donald Trump, and it's not based primarily on policy," notes Wehner. "It's based primarily on their judgment that he's not fit to be president. The Republican Party is in a position of standing there and making the opposite argument -- and there's going to be a price for that."
Raheem Sterling has been a target of the tabloid press ever since he shot to fame as a teenager in 2012. But the latest controversy – the accusation that he is glamourising gun violence with a large new tattoo – has sparked a bitter row about racism, representation and the power of role-models in the sport. Sterling has been widely criticised by anti-violence groups after he posted an image of his new body art – an M16 assault rifle. It triggered outrage in parts of the press, but so far, the 23-year-old’s only comment on the matter has been to say it has “deeper meaning”, and relates to when his father was shot dead when he was just two years old. But many of his young fans see the tabloid interpretation differently. “It’s to show you can turn bad things into a positive,” says Migel Ramirez, a 12-year-old football lover at the Archbishop Lafranc Academy in Croydon. “To follow your dreams, and let things motivate you to keep striving.” Like many of his friends who participate in special coaching sessions organised by the charity, Football Beyond Borders, Ramirez is unequivocal in his support for the footballer. “It’s because his dad was shot dead in Jamaica, and that’s motivated him to only shoot with his right foot and never touch a gun,” he said.
1. Trade war fears: The Trump administration must soon decide whether to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum products from the European Union, Canada and Mexico. The decision on whether to extend tariff exemptions could be announced as soon as Thursday, according to media reports. Moving ahead with the metal tariffs would escalate trade tensions, and potentially spark retaliatory measures. The European Union and Canada have both pledged to strike back. The United States is juggling potential trade conflicts on several fronts. The Trump administration announced Tuesday it would impose tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods and restrict Chinese investment in the United States. China said Wednesday it was ready to retaliate. 2. Roller coaster in Italy: Investors are trying to get their heads around the latest drama in Italian politics. The main stock market in Milan has bounced back after days of heavy losses. Yields on government bonds have also dropped, indicating that investor fears have subsided. However, investors remain worried about a populist government or new elections that could boost euroskeptic politicians. The rest of Europe is worried about contagion. "A debate is raging in Brussels over whether the European Union should 'do a Brexit' and let the Italian situation resolve itself, or intervene to try and influence the outcome of the potential early election," Eurasia Group analysts wrote in a research note. 3. Softer US banking rules: Regulators unveiled the first rewrite of the Volcker rule on Wednesday. The post-financial crisis regulation bars banks from making risky trades with their own money, including customer deposits. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a statement that the proposed change would strike at "some of the uncertainty and complexity that now make it difficult for firms to know how best to comply, and for supervisors to know that they are in compliance." 4. Global market overview: US stock futures were pointing higher. Most major European and Asian markets posted gains. The Dow Jones industrial average and the S&P 500 closed 1.3% higher on Wednesday, while the Nasdaq added 0.9%. Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now! 5. Earnings and economics: Dollar General (DG), Dollar Tree (DLTR), Express (EXPR), and Sears Holdings (SHLD) are set to release earnings before the open. Costco (COST) and lululemon athletica (LULU) will follow after the close. Facebook (FB) is scheduled to hold its 2018 stockholder meeting on Thursday. The company could face tough questions from investors following its privacy scandal. The US Bureau of Economic Analysis will release personal income and spending reports for April at 8:30 a.m. ET. The weekly report on US crude inventories will be published by the Energy Information Administration at 11:00 a.m. Eurozone inflation data for May is out at 5:00 a.m. Canada's first quarter GDP figures will be published at 8:30 a.m. Markets Now newsletter: Get a global markets snapshot in your inbox every afternoon. Sign up now! 6. Coming this week: Thursday — Facebook annual shareholder meeting Friday — May jobs report
TORONTO — Tim Hortons will pilot all-day breakfast in a dozen Ontario locations and look to introduce a kids menu, delivery and loyalty program, in a bid to regain the trust of franchisees and customers. The fast-food giant's president Alex Macedo told The Canadian Press that the all-day breakfast experiment will begin at a handful of Hamilton and Brampton locations later this summer and include all of the menu items typically available at the store in the morning. If it is successful, he said the company would consider rolling it out further. "The demand is loud and clear," he said. "Any time we bring up the idea of breakfast at any time, the response is very favourable and very strong." 'Things are looking much better' Macedo's announcement came as the company has publicly been struggling to fix its strained relationship with some franchisees, who have been sparring with the company in recent months over everything from cost-cutting measures made in the wake of Ontario's minimum wage hikes to delays in supply deliveries to a $700-million renovation plan that they say will cost store owners $450,000 per restaurant. Last month, Macedo admitted that "we could have done a few things better" and started touring the country to meet with franchises and promise them that he would fix the relationship. This week, he said the visits had concluded and added that "it can take some time to get exactly where we want to be, but right now, I think things are looking much better than they were at the beginning of the year." Watch: Restaurant Brands International announces a plan to improve Tim Hortons. Story continues below. His attempt at easing the tensions have coincided with an intensification of Canada's breakfast wars. In early May, McDonald's, one of Tim Hortons' biggest rivals, announced it had begun serving bagels across the country and in recent years. A&W, Taco Bell and Burger King have all upped the ante with breakfast offerings to compete with Tim Hortons, Starbucks and Country Style. Macedo said Tim Hortons' all-day breakfast launch wasn't triggered by the McDonald's bagel announcement, adding that "something as big as this would never be a reaction to anything a competitor would do." The company, he said, had done a market test on all-day breakfast in 2013 and found it was "generally successful," but ultimately chose not to roll it out, in part because "the guests weren't asking for it as much as they are now." Since then, he said consumer interest in breakfast has grown, as evidenced by research companies NPD Group and Nielsen calling it the fastest-growing part of the day for restaurants since 2012. Looking at kids menu, kiosks, loyalty programs, delivery In addition to all-day breakfast, he revealed that the company would also be looking to a kids menu, new packaging, kiosks, loyalty programs and delivery to entice customers and regain franchisee confidence, but he said he wasn't prepared to share more details on any of those plans yet. "I don't think there is one answer to driving brand love," Macedo said. "My only concern is to work with franchisees all over the country. ... I think they are very willing to work with us to get the brand where we want it to be." The busier the stores are, the better the day goes. Among those franchisees is Aron Burch, who will offer all-day breakfast at five of his seven locations. He said he was eager to get on board with the pilot because he owns a handful of locations near McMaster University in Hamilton and finds most of his customers are students who like to sleep in, often making it to his restaurants just as breakfast is winding down for the day. He said the months of tension between Tim Hortons and the franchisees, and the rise in the cost of living, had caused his stores to see "a little bit" of a decline in transactions in same-store sales, but he was confident that all-day breakfast would help them lure more customers. "Being able to offer all-day breakfast definitely is going to help us go to the customer who might have gone somewhere else or have it at home because of the convenience," he said. "The busier the stores are, the better the day goes." Also On HuffPost:
Washington (CNN) House Speaker Paul Ryan's bombshell announcement that he will not seek re-election brings with it immediate and long-term political ramifications for his southeast Wisconsin district and the House landscape overall, where Democrats need to pick up 23 seats to gain the majority in 2019. The most acute effect will be felt in Wisconsin's 1st Congressional District, which Ryan has represented since 1999. He already was facing a potential challenge from Democrat Randy Bryce, who had raised nearly $5 million for his campaign, including $2 million in the first quarter of 2018. The district, which includes Kenosha and Ryan's hometown of Janesville, is more favorable terrain for Democrats than the southwest Pennsylvania district Conor Lamb won in the March special election. The Republican-aligned candidate in the recent Supreme Court race in Wisconsin won this district by five percentage points, despite losing the statewide race by more than 11 points. That GOP performance is on par with Mitt Romney's margin in the district in 2012, but less than Donald Trump's 10-point spread there in 2016. Bryce's bid is likely to lose a little enthusiasm without Ryan's name on the ballot, but the energy this cycle is clearly on the Democratic side. More broadly, Republicans are also losing the party's best fundraiser for House candidates. Just this Monday, Ryan's campaign announced hauling in more than $11 million in the first quarter of the year, bringing its total raised to $54 million -- and transferring more than $40 million to the National Republican Congressional Committee to help other GOP candidates this cycle. Then there are the optics of the decision. By announcing his retirement now, it sends a dire signal to Republicans that an already tough environment could get even more challenging. Ryan's open seat moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican, with the potential to become more competitive depending on who the GOP nominates to run in this district. At the same time we are making a few other changes to our House race ratings. Arizona AZ-08: We are soon going to get yet another peek into the 2018 political landscape with an upcoming special election where Republicans are hoping the natural DNA of the district will be somewhat more resistant to the Democratic enthusiasm that toppled their candidates in Pennsylvania and Alabama. The April 24 contest in Arizona's 8th Congressional District features Republican Debbie Lesko, a former state senator, and Democrat Hiral Tipirneni, an emergency room physician. The seat was vacated in December when GOP Rep. Trent Franks resigned amid sexual harassment allegations. Democrats did not contest this House seat in 2016 or 2014. At the presidential level, Trump defeated Hillary Clinton by 21 points in the district, which is made up primarily of the western Phoenix suburbs and chock full of retirees. Romney bested Barack Obama there by 25 points in 2012. On the heels of Lamb's victory last month, Republicans aren't taking any chances. They've poured more than $600,000 into the race to keep it from flipping to the Democrats. Democrats aren't nearly as bullish on this special election as they were about Pennsylvania. Republicans hold a 17-point advantage in voter registration in the district. Lesko remains a heavy favorite, but given how Democrats have overperformed in special elections the past year, this race should be closer than most would normally expect. This race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican. Ohio OH-12: After the Arizona special election, all eyes will turn to this central Ohio district, which became open when Republican Pat Tiberi resigned in January to lead the Ohio Business Roundtable. The district is more urban than PA-18, which should make it a bit bluer. The inner ring Columbus suburbs are the kinds of places where Democrats expect to make gains this cycle. It's slightly less white than PA-18, and also a bit younger and with more college graduates. Trump got 52% of the vote here in 2012, underperforming Romney's 54% mark. There are crowded primaries on both sides, but the makeup of the district and the Democratic edge in enthusiasm mean this one is likely to get more competitive before August. This race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican. Florida FL-15: Ryan's isn't the only retirement announcement from Republicans Wednesday. Four-term Rep. Dennis Ross is leaving as well, opening up a seat in a district that includes the Tampa Suburbs -- and has the same partisan tilt on the presidential level as Ryan's district. There is a crowded Democratic primary there, with 31-year-old Navy veteran Andrew Learned holding a slight fundraising edge at this point. With Ross no longer on the ballot, this seat appears primed to become more competitive. This race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican. New York NY-11: Max Rose, a former non-profit healthcare executive and Army veteran, gives Democrats a candidate who could make inroads in this district, home to Staten Island. Rose also stands to benefit from a fractured Republican primary, with incumbent Rep. Dan Donovan running against former Rep. Michael Grimm, who served time in prison for felony tax fraud. For his part, Donovan is facing allegations he used his position to intervene in the arrest of his domestic partner's son on charges of heroin possession. This race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican. Ohio OH-14: Democrat Betsy Rader doesn't have a primary, giving her a clear shot at challenging GOP Rep. Dave Joyce in the 14th, home to the Cleveland and Akron suburbs. Like OH-12, this district has been more favorable to Democrats in previous elections than PA-18. Trump won it by 11 points in 2016, but Romney carried it by only three points in 2012. This race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican. Wisconsin WI-07: GOP Rep. Sean Duffy looks well-positioned to win re-election in northern Wisconsin, with more than $2 million in the bank at last check. But the recent state Supreme Court election in the Badger State suggests it might not be a sure thing, with a 20-point swing in favor of the Democrats from Trump's margin in 2016. Democrats think Bon Iver manager Kyle Frenette could give them a shot here. Frenette recently announced raising $250,000 in the six weeks since his campaign launched. This race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican.
(CNN) They are very convincing when they call. They have a Washington phone number and can cite your financial history down to the cent. They say you're under investigation, in danger of losing your home, or worse, your freedom -- unless you pay thousands of dollars on the spot. But they're not real. And you're not in trouble. Not unless you take it seriously. This is a scam. A big one. Federal authorities say it's the largest IRS impersonation scam they've ever seen -- swindling victims out of more than $15 million since it began in 2013. "They have information that only the Internal Revenue Service would know about you," said Timothy Camus, deputy inspector general for investigations with the Treasury Department. "It's a byproduct of today's society. There's so much information available on individuals." Using identity theft technology, the thieves have successfully victimized more than 3,000 people in the past two years, although the Treasury Department cautions that number is only documented cases and the true number might be higher. Camus said they've recorded more than 366,000 reports of contact with the scammers, and it's increasing at a rate of 10,000 to 12,000 a week. Authorities believe the thieves are operating out of India, using phishing technology to make it appear they're IRS agents in Washington. The Federal Trade Commission, which goes after scammers like these from a civil standpoint, and the Treasury Department, which leads the criminal probe, both have open investigations. The largest loss reported was a staggering $500,000, Camus said. Most have lost about $5,000. One of those victims was former NFL player Frank Garcia, who is now a sports radio host in Charlotte, North Carolina. When he got the call, it sounded so authentic, he left the radio station in a panic, scramming to get the money they wanted. "The only thing running through my head is, I'm going to jail. I'm gonna be on television, in handcuffs, for tax evasion," he recalled. "I had to follow specific steps not to be arrested. That the authorities had been contacted and in fact, they are on the way and will be there in 30 minutes." Garcia says he spent five hours driving to various stores around Charlotte, depositing $500 each time into a PayPal account set up by the woman on the phone. He ended up losing about $4,000. He, and other victims, told CNN the swindlers never let their victims hang up the phone. "I have never been arrested in my life and was very scared," said Kin Ko, a New Jersey resident who lost about $5,000 after he says the impersonator told him he was facing five years in prison, and the IRS was about to confiscate his assets: His car, his house and all the money in his bank account. The person had a badge number, read him an arrest warrant from a nearby police jurisdiction. The thieves are incredibly smart and convincing. They harness stolen identities and use programs such as Google Earth to identity locations where their victims can transfer money. "It sounded as legitimate as could be," said Al Cadenhead, a pastor in North Carolina who also fell victim. "They knew where I was. He told me where to go -- to the Rite Aid, up two streets turn left to the Rite Aid. The names of the streets, it was really just incredible." Cadenhead told CNN he didn't come to his senses until he'd signed over $16,000. "It was like I came out of a coma and realized this was not normal and this is not how you do business," he said. "I know other people who've heard the story say 'How did a guy with a Ph.D. fall victim?' I was the perfect victim. I've never been audited, never paid a traffic ticket. I don't know how to pay fines. How do I know they aren't stern and serious about everything?" Camus said many people are afraid when they hear from the IRS, so they do whatever the caller says. In December, federal authorities found and arrested two U.S.-based "runners" who admitted to transferring almost a million dollars from pre-paid cards to foreign bank accounts. In many cases, victims are warned and stopped from sending more money by bank tellers or clerks at money wiring locations. Ko said that it was a bank teller who told him this was a scam when the impersonator asked him to go through a second round of depositing money. How to get help If you think you have been a victim of an IRS impersonation scam, you can report it to TIGTA's web site or call 800-366-4484. For Frank Garcia, the light came on when the woman on the phone asked him for another $8,000 after he thought his debt had been paid. He says he decided to hang up and await what the woman promised would be an arrest -- which, of course, never came. "I felt taken advantage of. I felt small. And I was naive," he said. "I wasn't aware. I didn't understand the system. And didn't blame anybody but myself for not taking more time to understand those things." Often, Camus says, immigrants are targeted and threatened with deportation. The elderly are also a popular target, although the scam has grown so large, people of all ages, income levels and status are getting these calls. Treasury Department officials say if you get one of these calls, the best and simplest way to handle it is to hang up. Camus himself, a Treasury Department investigator, even got one. He told them, "Your time is coming."
Social Security is running out of money. America gives too much aid to other countries. Nothing is made in the U.S.A. anymore. Those are some of the reasons why working class whites feel the economy is headed in the wrong direction. Some 53% of these folks said they are very dissatisfied with the country's economic situation, well above the share among whites with college degrees or working class blacks and Hispanics. Another 25% said they are somewhat dissatisfied, according to a new CNN/Kaiser Family Foundation survey. What's more, they think their children will suffer as a result. Half feel their kids' standard of living will be worse when they hit the same age. This gloomy view, however, doesn't extend to their own financial circumstances. Nearly two-thirds of working class whites say they are satisfied with their own personal financial situation. More than three-quarters are optimistic about how things are going in their own lives. A similar share of those who are working feel their jobs are secure. Take Pete McGuire of Mansfield Center, Connecticut. McGuire, who runs a landscaping company with his wife, was frustrated recently when he couldn't find work boots made in the United States at Cabela's, an outdoor recreation retailer. "We're not making anything," McGuire said, noting that the few American products he does find are often more expensive. "I'd be willing to pay a little more to buy something made in the U.S.A. to keep somebody working here." The 61-year-old ticked off why he thinks the nation is in trouble: The national debt is growing. The federal government is doing more to help other countries than struggling Americans. Veterans are being ignored. Related: Working class whites blame Washington, but still want more government help His four daughters will have to deal with all of this. And most of them "are making ends meet by the skin of their teeth." Two are stay-at-home moms and one is a teacher's assistant in an elementary school. The one who is doing the best financially became an accountant after graduating from the University of Connecticut. As for his own financial security? "We're comfortable. We are paying our bills," said McGuire, who recently applied for disability because of back problems that have forced him to cut back at the landscaping firm. McGuire feels he was able to build a more secure life because the economy was better during most of his working years. After he graduated high school, he was always employed -- in textile factories, for the state, in a construction company and finally at his own small business, often holding second jobs on the side pumping gas or mowing lawns. His wife, who has a bachelor's degree, works for the city of Norwich, providing job coaching for mentally handicapped kids. He has a small pension and retiree health care, thanks to his tenure with the state Department of Transportation. Nowadays, he feels, it's harder for blue-collar workers to make a decent living. "When was the last time a factory worker got a pay raise of more than a dime or a quarter?" he said. Working class whites were less likely to get a boost in pay than their college educated peers. The poll found some 42% of working age people in this group said they or someone in their household had received a raise in the last year, compared to 54% of whites with college diplomas. It's not surprising that many working class whites have a negative view of the nation's economic direction, said Gary Burtless, a senior fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution. Americans are often more dour if their political party is not in power. And since many working class whites lean Republican, they feel the Obama administration has made things worse. (Some 53% of working class white Americans CNN/KFF surveyed said they were Republicans or leaned that way, while 33% said they were Democrats or Democratic-leaners and 11% independents.) Related: The anatomy of a white working class Trump voter Plus, Republican nominee Donald Trump and his onetime rivals spent the past year decrying how troubled the nation is, he said. "People are more likely to the take the party line about the state of the economy than their own private economic circumstances," Burtless said. "If we had a President McCain or a President Romney, they'd say the economy isn't so bad." Los Angeles resident David Gibson typifies this view. "Everything Obama and his administration does is wrong," said Gibson, 82, who just retired as the owner of a real estate escrow business. "I'm not sure Obama knows what he's doing and he doesn't listen to people." The president's actions haven't directly hurt Gibson's finances, however. He worked well beyond the typical retirement age because he liked it and now plans to live off savings and investments. His daughter and grown grandson are also employed and doing fine. But among his circle of friends, there's a lot of concern over the economy, national security and America's standing in the world. Related: The economy needs a Cheerleader-in-Chief "It's a feeling that everyone is on pins and needles," he said, noting that the economy is only growing at a 1% rate and many people have dropped out of the labor market because they can't find jobs. "You don't know what's going to happen. We're a ship without a captain right now." Others, like Nicole King, feel the nation's problems have been building for a while and blames both parties for not coming together to address the issues. King, who watches both CNN and Fox and listens to NPR to get a variety of views, said she is concerned about the shaky state of Social Security and the mounting national debt. She also fears the next generation is not as hard working, which will further damage the economy. "All those things together don't paint a very positive picture," said King, 40, who feels her job in a bank's IT department is secure. "The U.S. as a brand is not as strong as it once was." Related: White Working Class & Worried The Charlotte, N.C., resident and her husband are on a very strict budget so they can save money for retirement and their children's college education. They buy used cars and gave their older daughter, who is 3, a piggy bank so she will learn the value of money at an early age. And they worry that their daughters will not be as comfortable as they are because the economy is so troubled. Part of working class whites' frustration with the nation's direction stems from their feeling marginalized in society, said Arlie Hochschild, a professor emerita in sociology at the University of California, Berkeley, and author of the new book, Strangers In Their Own Land: Anger and Mourning on the American Right. They think the nation views them as uneducated and racist, Hochschild said. Their pro-life views are demonized, while they feel under attack from the rise of secularism. And the tipping point is that their path upwards on the economic ladder is blocked by the decline of the middle class. Related: The 'forgotten tribe' in West Virginia Yet, at the same time, they draw happiness from living in their own isolated enclaves with family, neighbors and fellow churchgoers nearby. "People are more optimistic personally than they are about the country as a whole," Hochschild said. White, Working Class & Worried is a CNN partnership with the Kaiser Family Foundation - an extensive survey of white, working class Americans and voters who form a backbone of the support for Donald Trump. See more tonight on Anderson Cooper 360 and see full coverage at CNN.com/WhiteWorkingClassAndWorried. About the survey: CNN partnered with The Kaiser Family Foundation to conduct an in-depth survey of the white working class in America, their politics, their perceptions of America's changing demographics, the economy, immigration, their personal finances, their faith, among others. This group has become increasingly important to the 2016 presidential race since they have been a key support to Donald Trump's bid for the White House. Here are the full results of the survey.
Google is bringing a second app to China as it looks to grow its presence in a huge market where most of its services are blocked. The company said in a blog post Thursday that it has launched its file management tool, Files Go, in four Chinese app stores. The app was released in the United States in December. Many of Google's (GOOGL) best-known services -- such as search, Gmail, YouTube and Maps -- are banned or widely inaccessible in China, the world's largest smartphone market. But Files Go is unlikely to upset the country's censors -- it suggests files to delete, organizes images, videos and documents, and lets users share files offline. Related: Google is opening an artificial intelligence center in China Google effectively left China in 2010, but the country's hundreds of millions of internet users make it too large a market to ignore. The company has been hunting for ways to expand there in recent years. It released its language translation app in China a year ago. The company said the number of users of Google Translate in China grew 400% in the first five months. It declined to give the current number of users. Related: Google's man-versus-machine showdown blocked in China Google faces challenges getting more services into the country, including stricter censorship regulations and increased scrutiny of foreign tech companies. The company's own app store, Google Play, remains blocked in China, which means that for Android phone users, Files Go and Google Translate are only available on third-party app stores, like the ones run by Chinese smartphone makers Huawei and Xiaomi. Google is also setting up an artificial intelligence research center in Beijing, the company's first in Asia. The move will help China pursue its aim to become a global leader in AI.
JD(S)'s HD Kumaraswamy took oath as the chief minister of Karnataka on Wednesday after a dramatic week following a hung assembly in the state, without any party getting past the half-way mark. Congress's G Parameshwara took oath as the deputy chief minister of Karnataka. Opposition leaders like UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi, Congress president Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and BSP leader Mayawati were present at the ceremony to show unity with Kumarswamy. Sharad Pawar, Sitaram Yechury and Akhilesh Yadav were also present at the ceremony. Kumaraswamy's swearing-in comes days after BJP's BS Yeddyurappa resigned as the chief minister of the state only two days after he was sworn in. Kumaraswamy was chosen as the chief ministerial candidate of the JD(S)-Congress alliance when the Congress reach out to JD(S) after counting to form the alliance. Though the Congress and JD(S) had the numbers to form government (78 and 37 respectively), the Governor of Karnataka Vajubhai Vala had invited the BJP to form a government in the state. The alliance had maintained that the BJP did not have the numbers and had approached the Supreme Court to contest Yeddyurappa's bid to form government. The Supreme Court had directed the BJP and Yeddyurappa to prove its majority on the floor of the house after it told the court that they had the numbers. Ahead of the floor test, several Congress and JD(S) MLAs had told the media that the BJP had offered them bribes of large sums of money and ministerial positions in the state if they moved to the BJP. On the day of the floor test, after an emotional speech Yedyurappa conceded that he did not have the numbers and resigned as the chief minister paving way for Kumaraswamy. Son of former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, Kumaraswamy is president of JD(S) in Karnataka. He served as the chief minister of Karantaka between February 2006 to October 2007.
TORONTO — Teen girls who are considering contraception should look to intrauterine devices as their first-line choice, as they provide the greatest protection against an unplanned pregnancy, the Canadian Paediatric Society recommends. The position statement, the CPS's first on the issue, was set to be released Thursday during the organization's annual meeting in Quebec City. Known as IUDs or IUSs, the small and often T-shaped devices are placed inside the uterus and are more than 99 per cent effective in preventing pregnancy, compared to 91 per cent for birth-control pills and 82 per cent for condoms, the CPS says. What we're saying is this should be an option and this should be something that we think about that leads our list of options. Dr. Giosi Di Meglio IUDs, or intrauterine devices, typically incorporate copper in their design, which is toxic to sperm; IUSs, or intrauterine systems, release a small amount of hormones over time. Both act continuously over the course of several years, but can be removed at any time by a health-care provider. "Intrauterine contraception and the long-acting reversible contraceptives in general ... those should be your first line because they're the most effective," said Dr. Giosi Di Meglio, a co-author of the paper and an adolescent medicine specialist at the Montreal Children's Hospital. That doesn't mean that young women shouldn't choose the pill or other forms of birth control like a skin patch or injectable contraceptive, she said in an interview from Quebec. "What we're saying is this should be an option and this should be something that we think about that leads our list of options." Watch: Birth control side effects: Which have the most and the least? Story continues below. Di Meglio said that depending on the particular type, copper-based IUDs may not need to be replaced for five to 10 years, while the protective lifespan of IUSs ranges from three to five years, depending on the make. The devices do carry a small risk of tissue perforation during insertion through the vagina, and doctors also monitor patients for possible bacterial infection for a few weeks after the device is implanted. But Di Meglio said such an occurrence is rare and can be treated with antibiotics. Studies suggest that intrauterine devices are not a direct conduit for infection, and there is a theoretical possibility that IUSs may actually decrease the risk of infection, she said. We have even used it for that reason instead of for contraception in kids who have not even had sex. Still, the idea of having a device inserted may cause anxiety for some teen girls, and Di Meglio concedes the procedure can initially be somewhat uncomfortable. "You get a few pretty intense cramps, but nothing more than you would have with a really bad period," she said. "It subsides pretty quickly and then for the next few days, you might have a few cramps on and off." Di Meglio said a girl can get an IUD or IUS any time after getting their first period and ideally prior to becoming sexually active. By age 17, about half of Canadian youth are having sex, the CPS says. "We're not recommending that this be used the minute the kid has their first period, but there are certain benefits in using the hormonal IUS — one of them being that it can reduce the amount of bleeding or also reduce cramping a lot," she said. "We have even used it for that reason instead of for contraception in kids who have not even had sex." Up-front costs higher Andrew Townsend of Planned Parenthood Toronto welcomed the CPS recommendation, saying the clinic gets a lot of questions from young people who "still view the pill as the first kind of birth control that they should start on or that they have to start on. "Something like IUDs being a recommended option is great because different people have different needs," he said, adding that a growing number of clients being seen in the clinic are opting for the implanted devices. The program provides information and health-care services to those aged 13 to 29. While intrauterine contraception may be the most effective means of preventing unplanned pregnancy, the up-front costs of the devices are high compared with the pill and other methods, said Di Meglio. One hormone-releasing IUS that lasts five year costs the Quebec government's prescription plan about $325, while copper-based IUDs run from about $60 to $100, she said. For those not covered under private insurance, the provincial plan covers 65 per cent of the cost of birth control pills and IUDs. At the end of the day, we just want to facilitate whatever contraceptive they choose. Coverage by public insurance plans varies across the country. In Ontario, for instance, long-acting reversible contraceptives are fully covered for women under age 25, along with the physician's fee for implanting one of the devices. Di Meglio said that over time, IUDs and IUSs are actually more cost-effective than most other birth-control methods because of how long they last before needing to be replaced. The CPS statement also recommends that practitioners adopt a collaborative approach that empowers youth to make informed decisions about their birth control options, weighing the benefits, risks, side-effects and suitability of each method based on individual preference. "At the end of the day, we just want to facilitate whatever contraceptive they choose," Di Meglio said. Also On HuffPost:
White, Working-Class and Worried is a CNN partnership with the Kaiser Family Foundation - an extensive survey of white, working-class Americans and voters, who form a backbone of the support for Donald Trump. Watch Anderson Cooper 360 and CNN.com for reports throughout the week. Washington (CNN) The white, working-class Americans who form a backbone of Donald Trump's political support have a split view of Muslim immigrants -- strong majorities believe both that immigrants from Muslim countries increase the threat of terrorism in the United States, but also that most immigrants from those countries are good people. The data is from a new survey from CNN and the Kaiser Family Foundation and is aimed at unveiling the political motivations of the voting bloc that has propelled the GOP nominee. Threats of terror, both abroad and at home, have repeatedly rolled the race for the White House and the candidates have sought to improve their standing with voters in their responses to the terror attacks in Paris, Brussels, San Bernardino, Calif., and most recently after the attacks in New York and New Jersey. Polls generally show that voters trust Trump more than Hillary Clinton to handle terrorism. Trump's tough talk about combating terrorism and threats abroad, including a plan to erect a wall at the US-Mexico border and his repeated suggestion that profiling as a preventative tactic against terrorism has helped fueled his rise. While a majority (63%) of white, working-class Americans say immigrants from Muslim countries are generally good people, the same share say that immigrants from Muslim countries increase the risk of terrorist attacks. Members of this group, which exit polls had at around 44% of the US electorate in 2012 though the exact figure is difficult to quantify, also have a more negative view of immigration: nearly half (47%) of whites without a college degree view immigrants as a burden on the country. Even among those white, working-class voters who view immigrants as a burden, 50% say immigrants from Muslim countries are good people compared with 35% who say they are not. There is also a partisan divide: White, working-class Democrats are more likely to hold positive views about immigrants from Muslim countries than their white, working-class Republican counterparts. 47% of white Democrats without college degrees say Muslim immigrants increase the risk of terrorist attacks in the US compared with 83% of white Republicans with no college degree. Trump has made his hard line against Muslims a key component of his campaign, and his white, working-class supporters have strong views about the impact of immigrants from Muslim countries. Fifty-three percent of white voters without college degrees who are considering supporting Trump say immigrants from Muslim countries are basically good, but 82% say they increase the risk of terrorist attacks in the US. 'Under attack' More than 6-in-10 white, working-class Americans also say that Christian values are under attack in the United States. That viewpoint is more widespread among older working-class whites than among younger ones. Seventy-three % of white, working class adults 65 and older said Christian values are under attack, while just 41% of working-class adults under the age of 30 said the same. Trump backers were more likely to say that Christian values were under attack than those who support Clinton. Eighty-one percent of white, working-class voters who would consider supporting him in November said Christian values were under attack, compared to 31% who support Clinton. Candidate positioning In the hours following the bombings in New York and New Jersey, Clinton and Trump tussled over who was better qualified to combat terrorism as well as its cause. Clinton cast herself as the candidate best prepared to combat terrorism and said that her opponent's positions are "not grounded in fact" and "meant to make some kind of demagogic point." "I am prepared to, ready to actually take on those challenges," the former secretary of state told reporters on Monday, "not engage in a lot of irresponsible, reckless rhetoric." Trump blamed Clinton and President Barack Obama for failing to keep the country safe and called for profiling to beef up what he sees as currently lackluster anti-terrorism efforts. Instead of treading lightly, Trump said on Fox News Monday morning, the better approach would be to "knock the hell out of 'em." "Our local police, they know who a lot of these people are," Trump told Fox. "They are afraid to do anything about it, because they don't want to be accused of profiling. And they don't want to be accused of all sorts of things."
Ontario Progressive Conservative Leader Doug Ford doesn't feel that the controversial views of some Tory candidates and his own public feud with Toronto's former top cop clash with his steady criticism of the NDP as "radical" and anti-police. "I'm on a fruit farm here... if you want to compare apples and peaches, it's night and day," Ford told a reporter Wednesday at a campaign event at a family farm near Sarnia. With polls suggesting a tight race between the PCs and Andrea Horwath's NDP, Ford has gone all-in on painting the orange team as replete with radical activists who are unfit to lead the province, often because of controversial social media posts from candidates. But a reporter for QP Briefing noted that PC candidates have also raised eyebrows, including: one who defended Holocaust-deniers on the grounds of free speech, one who promoted a website that features content from white supremacists, and one who denied global warming is man-made. "Are these views mainstream or radical?" the reporter asked the PC leader. "There's one candidate you're speaking of. He's come out. He's apologized," Ford said. The PC leader was referring to London West's Andrew Lawton, a former radio host and Rebel Media contributor who said his mental illness was behind past comments that Liberals and New Democrats called homophobic and racist. The NDP highlighted this week that, in a 2016 Rebel podcast, Lawton said that while it is "offensive" to claim the Holocaust never happened, a group promoting that idea on a university campus should be permitted to "make that appeal." Ford said his candidate "had a few struggles in life," but they don't compare to remarks made by NDP candidates. He frequently notes the example of Toronto candidate Tasleem Riaz, who said last week that she was horrified a meme featuring Adolf Hitler appeared on her Facebook page years back. The other incidents the reporter flagged aren't linked to Lawton, though. Donna Skelly, running for the PCs in a Hamilton-area riding, was put on the defensive after Press Progress revealed she was photographed at an event holding a hat promoting the alt-right website, "Free Bird Media." To clarify, I was invited to a Christmas party by Mohawk McMaster Young Conservatives. I mingled with the crowd was handed a hat on my way to podium after speaking to a young man. I had never met him or heard of this group before. I stayed for 20 minutes and left before he spoke. — Donna Skelly (@SkellyHamilton) May 29, 2018 Ottawa-area Tory candidate Goldie Ghamari stated at a debate last week that while she believes climate change is real, she does not believe it is "man-made," according to CBC News. Tories are pledging to scrap Ontario's cap-and-trade program and fight against a carbon tax to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Yet Ford said he has the best slate of candidates who are ready to form government. "It's like an NHL all-star compared to a house league team," Ford said. PCs are also pouncing on two separate controversies involving NDP candidates and police. The Toronto Sun revealed that Gurratan Singh, the brother of federal NDP leader Jagmeet Singh who is running in Brampton East, held a sign stating "Fuck the police" at a 2006 protest. Horwath said Tuesday that while Singh's sign was "despicable," he "turned his life around since his early 20s." Watch Horwath from CBC News: A column from The Sun Wednesday also highlighted that Jill Andrew, running for the NDP in Toronto, posted to social media in 2016 that Toronto Police Chief Mark Saunders deserved a "coon award." Andrew and Saunders are both black. Ford said at his event that the NDP "say disgusting things about our police." But a reporter from The Canadian Press asked the PC leader how he could criticize other candidates' views on police when he is not collaborating with the investigation into the alleged 407 Express Toll Route data theft and had a "very ugly" feud with former Toronto police chief Bill Blair. "Oh my goodness, that's rich. You've never had a bigger supporter of the police than Doug Ford," he said. "I love our police and I've never waivered." On the 407 data issue, Ford said he took quick action by accepting the resignation of Simmer Sandhu, the former Brampton East PC candidate. Sandhu, who previously worked for the 407 ETR, cited unspecified allegations about his work life and nomination campaign when he quit weeks ago. Ford said at the time that the party was "looking into" allegations the data may have been used in PC nomination races. Sandhu denies any wrongdoing. Liberals have pushed Ford to call in the provincial police to investigate his party's nomination process across Ontario. The Tory leader did not respond to the question about his feud with Blair. Ford, who served as a Toronto city councillor from 2010 to 2014, clashed publicly with Blair at the height of a scandal over an infamous tape of his late brother, former Toronto mayor Rob Ford, smoking crack cocaine. In 2014, Ford apologized under legal threat for accusing Blair of leaking information that police were set to subpoena the mayor as "payback" for the police board not extending his contract. Blair went on to become a Liberal MP and now serves as the parliamentary secretary to the justice minister and the government's point person on marijuana legalization. In a heated interview with Global News in 2016, Ford said Blair "shouldn't be involved in politics." Ontario voters head to the polls on June 7. With files from The Canadian Press
(CNN) Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen accused China of "serial acts of suppression" and "dollar diplomacy" after Burkina Faso became the second country in a month to break off diplomatic ties with the island in favor of Beijing. The move by the African nation, which was welcomed by China, came after the Dominican Republic announced it had severed ties with Taiwan, switching its allegiance to Beijing. China refuses to maintain diplomatic relations with any country that recognizes Taiwan, a self-governed and democratic island off China's southeastern coast that Beijing considers an integral part of its territory. Taipei reacted angrily to the news, which left the island with 18 diplomatic allies around the world -- mostly small and poor countries in the Pacific and the Caribbean. "This is a warning to the Chinese government: This behavior is detrimental to cross-strait relations and China's international image, and does nothing to ease the international community's concerns about China," President Tsai told reporters in an unusually strongly worded statement late Thursday. "China's suppression will only make Taiwan's partnerships in the international community even closer. We will never give in," she added. Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen speaks during a press conference announcing Burkina Faso cut the diplomatic relations with Taiwan on May 24. The foreign ministry in Beijing said that China appreciates Burkina Faso's decision, according to Xinhua, China's official news agency. "We welcome Burkina Faso to join in China-Africa friendly cooperation as soon as possible on the basis of the one-China principle," it said in a statement. Taiwan minister offers to quit Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said he had offered his resignation to President Tsai. He added that his country will also halt all bilateral cooperative projects, cut all assistance to Burkina Faso, and pull out its diplomatic staff and technical missions from the African country. Beijing and Taipei have a long history of rivalry in their efforts to gain economic opportunities and diplomatic support from governments around the world. With China's rapidly rising economic and political might, however, the race is increasingly tilting in China's favor. View of the facade of Taiwan's Embassy in the Dominican Republic on May 1, 2018. The Dominican Republic cut ties with Taiwan a few days later. China and Taiwan -- officially the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China, respectively -- separated in 1949 following the Communist victory on the mainland after a civil war. Although both Beijing and Taipei view the island as part of China, neither government recognizes the legitimacy of the opposing side. Unofficial ties Washington has close unofficial ties with Taiwan and provides the island with arms under the Taiwan Relations Act, but the US has formal diplomatic relations only with Beijing. Nicaraguan students wave Taiwanese flags to welcome three Taiwanese Navy warships at Corinto port on April 9, 2018. Nicaragua is one of Taiwan's 18 remaining allies. In the past few months, the Trump administration angered Beijing by authorizing US manufacturers to sell submarine technology to Taiwan, as well as enacting the Taiwan Travel Act to encourage official visits between the US and the island. Earlier this month, the White House publicly admonished China f or warning foreign airlines to change how they identify Taiwan and other areas on their websites. More than 30 airlines — including some US carriers — were recently told by the Civil Aviation Administration of China to remove any information suggesting Taiwan, Hong Kong or Macau are not part of China. Chinese media reported this week that Japanese retailer Muji was fined 200,000 yuan ($31,000) by Shanghai authorities for importing a batch of coat hangers wrapped in packaging that described Taiwan as a country. "China's serial acts of suppression against Taiwan in the diplomatic sphere clearly show their unease and lack of self-confidence," said President Tsai in her statement on Burkina Faso's diplomatic desertion.
(CNN) Eating an egg a day may lower your risk of cardiovascular disease, a study of more than 400,000 adults in China suggests. Daily egg eaters had an 18% lower risk of dying from cardiovascular disease, which manifests as heart attacks and strokes, compared with adults who avoided eggs, according to the research published Monday in the journal Heart. Commonly called heart disease, cardiovascular disease includes heart failure, arrhythmias and heart valve problems in addition to strokes and attacks. Raised blood pressure, carrying too much weight or obesity, and elevated blood sugar all contribute to the risk of cardiovascular disease, which is triggered by unhealthy diet, physical inactivity, smoking and harmful use of alcohol. 'Controversial' nutrition source In the past, doctors sometimes warned patients to avoid eating too many eggs Though eggs contain high-quality protein and other positive nutritional components, they also have high amounts of cholesterol, which was thought might be harmful, explained Canqing Yu , a co-author of the study and an associate professor in the Peking University School of Public Health in Beijing. Yet "existing studies on the association between egg and cardiovascular diseases are controversial due to small sample size and limited information," Yu wrote in an email. Past studies have provided only limited evidence from the Chinese population, "which have huge differences in dietary habits, lifestyle behaviors and diseases patterns," Yu said. These are among the reasons why he and his colleagues decided to investigate the relationship between eating eggs and cardiovascular disease. To begin, they used information from an ongoing study of half a million adults living in 10 regions of China. They concentrated on 416,213 participants who'd never been diagnosed with cancer, cardiovascular disease or diabetes. Slightly more than 13% of these adults, ranging in age from 30 to 79, said they ate about an egg a day while just over 9% reported never or very rarely enjoying an egg. Nearly all the participants ate chicken, not duck, eggs, Yu noted. Over nearly nine years, the research team tracked this select group. They focused on major coronary events, such as heart attacks and strokes , including hemorrhagic strokes -- when a blood vessel bursts in the brain due, usually, to uncontrolled high blood pressure -- and ischemic strokes -- when a blood vessel feeding the brain becomes blocked, usually by a blood clot. "Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of deaths in China, which accounted for half of the total mortality," Yu said. "Stroke, including hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke, is the first cause of premature death, followed by ischemic heart disease." During follow-up, 9,985 people died of cardiovascular disease, and an additional 5,103 major coronary events occurred. Nearly 84,000 other participants were diagnosed with heart disease in this time period. Analyzing the data, the researchers found that eating about an egg a day related to a lower risk of heart disease compared with not eating eggs. In fact, participants who ate up to one egg daily had a 26% lower risk of hemorrhagic stroke, which is more common in China than in the United States or other high-income countries. Additionally, the egg eaters had a 28% lower risk of dying from this type of stroke. Finally, egg eaters also enjoyed a 12% reduced risk of ischemic heart disease, which is diagnosed in those who show the early signs of gridlocked blood flow to the brain. Based on the results, Yu said, eating eggs in moderation -- less than one a day -- is associated with a lower incidence of cardiovascular diseases, especially hemorrhagic stroke. Even more, the new research is "by far the most powerful project to detect such an effect," he said. On the downside, the research team collected only "crude information" about egg consumption from participants, and this prevented them from estimating effects "more precisely," Yu said. "We should [also] be cautious when interpreting our results in a context of different dietary and lifestyle characteristics from China." Part of a healthy diet Caroline Richard, an assistant professor of agricultural life and environmental sciences at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, said the new study is simply observational and so cannot show a direct cause and effect between eating eggs and risk of heart disease. "Saying that, this is a very large study, and that in itself is a strength, and the researchers have done the best possible job to control for other factors," said Richard, who was not involved in the research. Her own systematic review of studies showed that when participants are provided with between six and 12 eggs a week, no change occurs in major cardiovascular risk factors, including higher rates of blood sugar, inflammation and cholesterol. "Several studies in our review observed a positive effect of egg consumption on HDL cholesterol," or "good" cholesterol, she added. The new study, then, "delivers a similar message" that "egg consumption does not increase the risk of developing a cardiovascular disease," Richard said. Some studies have suggested that consuming eggs increases the risk of diabetes, she said. "In this study however, they didn't assess the risk of developing diabetes, which may be because diabetes is a newer disease in the Chinese population and there is not good documentation of who has it," Richard said. Still, she noted, "this will be very important data for helping develop dietary prevention guidelines in China." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Cardiovascular disease, which takes the lives of 17.7 million people every year, is the leading cause of death and disability worldwide, according to the World Health Organization . Cardiovascular disease causes nearly a third -- 31% -- of all global deaths each year. "Overall, I would say that consuming egg as part of a healthy diet does not increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, and we now have another carefully done study to support that," Richard said.
You've just started a new workout routine and eating a more healthy diet (after noticing those jeans have in fact not shrunk, *sigh*), and you're asking this one important question: How long does it take to lose weight? Is it a few days? Please, be yes. A few weeks? A few months? To get the answer we all want to know, The Huffington Post Australia spoke to two health experts -- dietitian and sports nutritionist Robbie Clark and trainer Daine McDonald. "Physiologically speaking, to lose weight you must burn more calories (through physical activity) than you eat or drink," Clark told HuffPost Australia. "Basic body functions (breathing, nerve function, manufacturing cells, blood circulation and maintaining body temperature) use 50-70 percent of your calories or energy. The rate at which your body uses calories/energy for basic body functions at rest is called the basal metabolic rate (BMR)." Additional factors that strongly determine your BMR include your genes, age, gender and body composition. "Therefore, much of your energy use is predetermined," Clark explained. "However, the amount of energy you burn each day also depends on how much exercise you do (intensity, type and duration)." Once we consume more than our bodies need over a period of time, this then turns into weight gain. How long it takes to lose weight While this depends on the individual as every person's body and goals are different to one another, if you begin to exercise three times a week and eat a healthy diet, you may find you lose weight quickly. "There is no calculation for this as every individual is different and how their body responds to exercise will differ, as well," Clark said. If an individual is significantly overweight and has more weight to lose than the average person who wants to lose five kilograms, they might lose more weight more quickly, Clark explained. However, this weight loss may be a combination of fluid loss and fat loss. "For someone who has started exercising three times a week and eating a healthier diet, they may expect to lose one kilogram in 1½-2 weeks," he said. "This is also dependant on the type of exercise they are performing and the duration and intensity of their training." The rate at which you lose weight depends on your exercise type and duration, as well as lifestyle choices and your overall health. McDonald agrees, explaining that your 'training age' has a lot to do with how much weight you can lose. "[Weight loss] really depends on where you are starting at in terms of your base level of physique. By that I mean what is your training age, which is the number of years you have trained for," McDonald told HuffPost Australia. "An example might be if you had not trained in years and put on 20 kilograms of weight, in particular around the midsection. Once you got into a routine of training, say four times per week and living by the 80/20 rule with your nutrition (80 percent good food and 20 percent bad), no doubt you would see a noticeable shift by the end of the first fortnight by potentially a few kilograms." For someone who is new to training and doing 3-4 sessions per week while eating correctly, you can expect to lose anywhere between 0.5-2kg per week, depending on just how much weight they need to lose. However, if you had been already training three times per week and eating well, and decided to ramp it up to 5-6 exercise sessions per week and refine your food, then you may find a much smaller amount of results. "There is no magic formula when it comes to predicting weight or fat loss," McDonald said. "In saying that, from experience, for someone who is new to training and doing 3-4 sessions per week while eating correctly, you can expect to lose anywhere between 0.5-2 kilograms per week, depending on just how much weight they need to lose. "The main things to remember are that, if you are serious about results, you want to train four times per week ideally and follow the 80/20 rule above. This alone should make a different to your body composition and overall health." Why it's harder to lose weight than to gain it As we all know, it's much easier to gain weight than it is to lose it. While this is primarily due to habit (if we're used to eating cake every day, it's ridiculously hard to stop), according to Clark and McDonald, there are a few other reasons why it can be difficult to shift weight. Lifestyle choices "I think it's important to note that the biology of weight loss and weight maintenance is a complex process," Clark explained. "There are so many factors that contribute to overweight and obesity such as diet, inactivity, genetics, smoking, motivation, alcohol consumption, stress, poor sleep hygiene, occupation, environment and hormone imbalance, to name a few." We can't underestimate the power of sleep for our mental and physical health. Underlying health issues "If you are struggling to lose weight, it's important to rule out any underlying causes first and foremost," Clark said. "There could be a medical reason for your struggle such as a chronic health condition like cardiovascular disease or type 2 diabetes, or a hormone imbalance such as your thyroid, sex hormones, insulin or cortisol." Stress "In today's world I believe the biggest factor that influences weight gain is stress, both physiological and psychological," McDonald told HuffPost Australia. "When your stress hormones such as cortisol are elevated in your body for prolonged periods of time it limits your body's ability to burn body fat, so when you factor in work stress, family stress, training stress, financial stress and so on, people end up being in an overly stressed and exhausted state. "Over time this can lead to a large build up of visceral fat, which can be hard to shake." Mindfulness or meditation can do wonder for stress levels (and you don't need to go to a fancy retreat do practise). Dieting and ageing Although dieting can be a tempting method of quickly losing weight, Clark said the negative effects of dieting far outweigh the positive. "Other factors that contribute to difficulties losing weight include regular yo-yo dieting, mindless eating, sedentary lifestyle and slowing metabolism that comes with age," Clark said. "These factors predominately influence your hormone function, which plays a major role in your body's ability to lose weight. "For example, weight cycling or yo-yo dieting can change your physiology. A reason for this is that through constant dieting your hunger hormone (ghrelin) increases and your fullness hormone (leptin) decreases. As a result, you will feel hungrier and less satiated every time you eat." Fill up on these goodies instead of restricting. How to lose weight in a healthy, sustainable way In order to lose weight safely and in a way that you will actually be able to follow for more than a week, Clark and McDonald recommend the following. 1. Be realistic with your weight loss goals "A guide to follow for safe and sustainable weight loss is to aim for 0.5–1 kilogram per week. In order to lose one kilogram per week, you would need to burn and reduce your dietary intake by approximately 1,000 calories per day," Clark said. If you're thinking 1,000 calories per day is completely unachievable, it equates to a one hour HIIT session (around 800 calories) and eating one less snack (around 200 calories). "Having said this, it is also important that you create as much food variety as possible so you don't put yourself at risk of malnutrition or nutrient deficiencies." 2. Avoid dieting and skipping meals Not only is skipping meals bad for your mood, energy levels and overall health, but it can also affect the way you eat later on. "If you do skip meals, you are more likely to eat more when you do eat, and this may lead to a larger stomach capacity," Clark said. "Crash dieting is a short term solution that will increase your body fat levels in the long term due to your body lowering its metabolic rate as a result." Getting up and moving is addictive once you get into the rhythm and routine. 3. Exercise regularly "Train four times per week for 45-60 minutes per workout," McDonald said. "While three times per week is good, four times per week is much better." For best results, Clark recommends doing a combination of resistance (weight) training and cardiovascular training. "Think of strength training as the main course at a restaurant -- cardio and yoga are all the equivalent of an entrée. So strength training is the foundation of health and fitness," McDonald added. "To stay in shape you need to teach your body to be healthy -- by being consistent with your training and nutrition week in and week out." 4. Cut down on the refined carbs "Refined carbohydrates such as cake, biscuits, cookies, muffins, chips, cupcakes, soft drink, fruit juice and most supermarket breads will make you store fat if not burned off," Clark explained. 5. Watch your portions "Be cautious of portion size of main meals and snacks -- always eat to 80 percent full before returning for seconds," Clark said. 6. Avoid drinking your calories "Don't drink your calories -- avoid beverages that contain 'empty' calories and don't fill you up such as soft drinks, large fruit juices and energy drinks," Clark said. 7. It's never too late to start (or to try again) "Health is in the mind, so remember you are never too late to start and it is never too late to rekindle your passion for health and fitness," McDonald said. Follow us on Snapchat!
(CNN) Weeks before Saudi Arabia is due to lift a ban on female drivers, authorities in the kingdom have detained four of the women who campaigned for the right to get behind the wheel. Activists Loujain al-Hathloul, Iman al-Nafjan, Aziza al-Yousef and Aisha Almane were arrested last week, along with four male supporters, according to Saudi media outlets close to authorities. They are accused of "suspicious contact with foreign entities to support their activities, recruiting some persons in charge of sensitive government positions, and providing financial support to hostile elements outside the country," state news agency SPA reported, quoting a state security spokesman. The spokesman said the women wanted to "destabilize the kingdom and breach its social structure and mar the national consistency." The statement did not name the activists, but local media did, with one headline in the daily al-Jazirah newspaper branding them as "traitors." Read More
(CNN) In a year dominated by the beginning of the Trump presidency, readers came to CNN Opinion looking for insight into the man occupying the highest office in the land. But Donald Trump's many actions and tweets weren't the only subjects of interest. Stories of racism and white supremacist groups, workplace sexual harassment, freedom of the press and a series of horrific natural disasters attracted your attention, too. Here are excerpts from a selection of some of the most popular opinion pieces of 2017. David Axelrod: I woke up this morning as an alternative fact January 31 I woke up this morning as an alternative fact. In justifying the appointment of Steve Bannon, the President's chief strategist, to the National Security Council, Trump spokesman Sean Spicer cited my role in the Obama White House as a precedent. Spicer said press secretary Robert Gibbs and I attended classified National Security Council meetings "all the time." That is simply not true. As a senior adviser to President Obama in 2009, I had the opportunity to witness the fateful deliberations of his National Security Council Principals committee over the strategy the United States would pursue in the war with al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan. I was not a member of the committee. I did not speak or participate. I sat on the sidelines as a silent observer with Gibbs because we would be called upon to publicly discuss the President's decision on that critical matter and the process by which he arrived at it. Read more here Dean Obeidallah: Donald Trump's most bone-chilling tweet February 6 Dean Obeidallah Here is Trump's truly jaw-dropping tweet from Saturday morning: "The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!" Why is this so concerning? It's OK to argue about whether the judge should or shouldn't have issued this order. But Trump is apparently attempting to delegitimize our federal judiciary by calling Judge James Robart, a George W. Bush-appointed judge, a "so-called" judge while arguing that his decision is "ridiculous." Let's be blunt, because the stakes demand it: An independent federal judiciary is our last, best hope at preventing Trump from violating the US Constitution and illegally grabbing power. And Trump has to understand that, hence his attempt to undermine it. Read more here George Takei: On this Remembrance Day, I hear terrible echoes of the past February 19 George Takei I was just a child of 5 when soldiers marched up our driveway in a Los Angeles residential neighborhood, bayonets in hand, and pounded on our front door, ordering us out. We were permitted only what we could carry, no bedding, no pets. I remember my mother's tears as she and our father gathered us up, with our precious few belongings in hand. She was determined to bring a sewing machine, fearful that we would need to make or mend clothes where we were headed. She wasn't sure the authorities would allow her to take that Singer machine, so she kept it a secret, even from us. She managed, however, to pack a few treats for us children for the long journey ahead. That was in 1942. Earlier that year, on February 19, 75 years ago yesterday, President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued an executive order, No. 9066, which set the internment into motion. Read more here Peter Bergen: Why the 'mother of all bombs' and why now? April 13 Peter Bergen The dropping of a "mother of all bombs" Thursday by the United States on an ISIS cave and bunker complex in Achin district in eastern Afghanistan should be understood as part of an effort to reverse a war that is not going well for the Afghan government and, by extension, the United States. The non-nuclear 21,600-pound GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast Bomb (MOAB) "targeted a system of tunnels and caves that ISIS fighters use to move around freely," White House press secretary Sean Spicer said. Thursday's bombing had a feeling of deja vu. A decade and a half ago the US Air Force dropped massive 15,000 pound "Daisy Cutter" bombs on the Tora Bora complex where Osama bin Laden was hiding in December 2001. Achin district is only a dozen or so miles from the Tora Bora region. Read more here Nikki Haley: An unprecedented step on human rights April 19 Nikki Haley The Syrian war is just one example of how human rights violations can become a vicious cycle of violence and instability that quickly spirals into all-out war. What began as an act of free expression of the kind Americans take for granted has become a conflict responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of desperate refugees. Nations thousands of miles away have been impacted. As the US ambassador to the United Nations, I've looked at how we can do more to respond to human rights violations before they reach the level of conflict. Traditionally, the United Nations Security Council has been considered the place where peace and security are debated, not human rights. But Tuesday, at the insistence of the United States, for the first time the Security Council took up the connection between human rights and conflict. We debated how widespread human rights violations are a warning sign -- a loud, blaring siren -- that a breakdown in peace and security is coming. Read more here Sarah Lenti: Single, childless and nearing 40, I saw one real option April 25 Sarah Lenti It was a year ago when a young woman stopped me in a neighborhood shop. She gazed at my stroller and started crying. She told me how lucky I was to be married with kids. My heart dropped. She didn't know me at all. I am a single mother by choice. Yet I was raised in a Christian, conservative home, where I grew up believing in the traditional family unit. And I was taught that there was an order to achieving it. First, fall in love. Second, marry a man. Third, start a family. Now in my fifth decade, only one has proven true for me -- and it isn't the first. Read more here John McWhorter: A man who is tragically unfit to be president May 2 John McWhorter When President Donald Trump revealed that he doesn't know why the Civil War was fought, or at least figures it could have been averted by the kind of deal-making he supposedly excels at, it was revealing in ways beyond the ones easy to glean. The ignorance is, as usual, stunning for someone in the public spotlight. "People don't ask that question, but why was there the Civil War?" Trump asks rhetorically, which is like saying no one has bothered to study anatomy or physics. Yet this sort of thing should no longer surprise us from this man. He doesn't read and lacks curiosity, but that's hardly rare among human beings. A college teacher friend of mine the other day noted that no one in his class could name who was president in the 1980s, nor, upon being told who it was, could they name his political party. People like this don't mysteriously develop an interest in civics after college. Sometimes they become president. Read more here Michael D'Antonio: The little boy president May 16 Michael D'Antonio Like most little boys, Donald Trump can be disarmingly honest, as when he once said, "When I look at myself in the first grade and I look at myself now, I'm basically the same. The temperament is not that different." The trouble is that the first grader is now President of the United States, and his temperament is on display for the world to see. Unpredictable, impulsive and immature, Trump acts in a way that would be expected of a 6-year-old boy, but is terrifying in a man whose moods dictate decisions carried out by adults on behalf of the most powerful nation in the world. Trump's dismissal of FBI Director James Comey offers a sterling example of the childish -- and reckless -- Trump style. When Comey broke with bureau tradition and spoke negatively about Trump's rival in the election, though initially he was criticized by candidate Trump, he was later praised -- and effusively. Over and over again, the soon-to-be-president described how Comey had done the right thing in criticizing Hillary Clinton. Comey remained in Trump's good graces after he was inaugurated, and Trump's team expressed confidence in him up until last week. Read more here Anushay Hossain: The ugly truth behind Saudi Arabia's love for Melania Trump May 23 Anushay Hossain Donald Trump's first major trip overseas may be fraught with diplomatic land mines for the President, but the Trump administration can at least comfort itself with the clear hit that Melania Trump has been with the Saudi press. The fact that Melania is communicating with the media and the public in Saudi Arabia -- mainly through what Saudi news reports have deemed her "classy and conservative" fashion choices -- works well in the notoriously anti-woman kingdom. Her intense appeal makes sense, considering the first lady represents so much that Saudi citizens find familiar and can relate to, especially visually. Melania walks behind her husband, is quiet and reserved, does not make obvious demands (at least not ones we can hear), and most importantly, she looks beautiful and polished... In Melania, the Saudi press and the Saudi government found the perfect spokeswoman, who projects a glamorous image that glosses over one of world's most autocratic and oppressive regimes. Read more here Gloria Borger: Trump, home all alone May 30 Gloria Borger So Trump returns to the White House this week just as he left -- lonely, angry and not happy with much of anyone. The presidency, Donald Trump is discovering, is not an easy or natural fit. "He now lives within himself, which is a dangerous place for Donald Trump to be," says someone who speaks with the President. "I see him emotionally withdrawing. He's gained weight. He doesn't have anybody whom he trusts." The question, he adds, is whether Trump will understand the enormity of what he faces or will instead "be back to being arrogant and stubborn." He will have to realize that "all this trip really did was hit the pause button." Read more here Douglas Heye: After baseball attack, the hate in politics has got to go June 14 Douglas Heye Politics is a business with a lot of tough talk where contrasts and distinctions are constantly drawn. Negative ads have become an art form. But what we've seen in recent years is different. Increasingly, we question not just the judgment of those we disagree with, but each others' motives and legitimacy. On the far ends of the political spectrum, invective and hate -- or a blind "us versus them" tribal mentality -- stand above reason and debate. Those voices gain prominence and followers as the media incentivize them to go further by giving them airtime and clicks. Our nation faces many challenges, but healing our divisions may be our biggest one. More than Obamacare, tax reform, ISIS or our national debt, this rhetoric, and the divisions it causes, directly constrains our ability to tackle other issues. We know what we will do today. We will pray and we will come together. But what we do tomorrow is even more important. Read more here John Kirby: Here's what we're sure of in the USS Fitzgerald collision June 17 John Kirby First, we know the crew fought heroically to save their ship and the lives of their shipmates. We know that from early reports by Navy officials but also from the images that flashed across our screens, our tablets and our phones after the incident happened early Saturday. One look at the crushed, twisted starboard side, the hoses flaked about, the water being discharged, the frantic work being done tells you all you need to know about the stuff you can't see in those same images: a fiercely brave crew working together to staunch the flooding, to rescue their shipmates and to save their ship. You can be certain they ended up drenched, exhausted, scraped and bruised -- but not broken. They kept that ship from foundering for 16 brutal hours. And they brought her back into port. Read more here Jen Psaki: Putin set a trap and Trump fell into it July 7 Jen Psaki The Russians just played the President. It was predictable. And he let it happen. On paper, Vladimir Putin should not have had the upper hand going into the meeting. To start with, Russia has been living with sanctions put in place more than three years ago because of its annexation of Crimea. And most Americans, save a few people including the President of the United States, are confident that Putin led the Russian intervention into the American election and into many other elections around the world. President Obama booted out nearly three dozen spies in December and closed two compounds, and there are many, from both parties, calling for an additional round of sanctions on Russia. We should have had some leverage. So what happened? Read more here Jane Carr: What the white supremacist view of history leaves out August 18 Jane Greenway Carr The white supremacists in Charlottesville said they wanted to "defend history" by protesting efforts to take down Confederate monuments. They say they feel threatened. They fear the removal of "white stories" from our culture. I used to teach African-American literature and cultural history. I wish I could tell them what real erasure looks like. I'd ask them to think about the memorials that never existed in public spaces in the South -- noting Richmond's past as a slave market, or the communities of free blacks who were terrorized by the installation of these Confederate monuments in the first place. To take down Charlottesville's statue of Robert E. Lee will not change the fact that all Virginia schoolchildren know his name, while the names of those who lived in the lost Charlottesville neighborhood of Vinegar Hill are forgotten. I keep returning to the question: How can people who claim to love history get the meaning of history so very, very wrong? Read more here Lev Golinkin: Jared and Ivanka are failing a basic moral test August 19 Lev Golinkin But the silence emanating from Jared and Ivanka was exponentially more powerful than any I'd heard before. To me, as a Jew, seeing nothing but two tweets from Ivanka brought the kind of pain I'm sure is echoed by African-Americans anytime Ben Carson defends the President, and Asian-Americans in the wake of Elaine Chao's and Nikki Haley's equivocations: condemning hate in general terms while carefully avoiding criticizing the very administration they're part of. No press conference was forthcoming, no rejection of Donald Trump's words; there was no statement from Jared about the horror his grandparents had survived; nothing from Ivanka, who had spoken about standing up for mothers on the campaign trail, about defending today's Jewish children -- her children; indeed all children -- from intimidation and violence. There was nothing, but the sound of steady clicking on Ivanka's electronic device as she wrote two tweets. It was like listening to the fabric of Judaism tear at itself. Read more here Peniel Joseph: Can 'I Have a Dream' help us heal after Charlottesville? August 26 Peniel Joseph Fifty-four years later, King's legacy offers concrete ways of dealing with a contemporary racial landscape that has produced a sense of vertigo in large swaths of the American public. King's words remain a singular anchor for all those who believe in freedom; by speaking truth to power in a political climate more racially toxic than our own, King did more than dream about racial justice. He challenged all of us to embrace a vision of a liberated future capable of touching individual hearts and minds as it traversed through the blood and veins of the body politic, on the way to creating a nation as good as the best of its citizens. Read more here Alice Stewart: What Trump got right in Texas August 30 Alice Stewart Hurricane Harvey is historic, not just in its size and scope, but in its significance as Donald Trump's first natural disaster test as President. His "darned if you do, darned if you don't" decision to visit South Texas on Tuesday, away from the rescue efforts, was the right call. Trump is demonstrating he has the compassion and commitment to meet the needs of victims of the deadly storm. Critics blasted Trump for not meeting with victims directly to offer his personal condolences. Look, there's plenty of time for the powerful photos showing comfort, but now is the time for action -- not optics. These people are in the rescue and recovery mode, which can only be hampered by the distraction of a presidential visit. They need homes, not hugs; they need structure, not selfies, and they need funds, not a presidential flyover. Unfortunately, every president has been forced to lead this country through natural or man-made disasters and faced the challenges of serving as consoler in chief: President Barack Obama had the Charleston, South Carolina, shootings; President George W. Bush had 9/11; President Bill Clinton met the challenge after the Oklahoma City bombing. All rose to the occasion. Likewise, Trump is stepping up to the challenge, reassuring storm victims that resources are on the way. Read more here LaQuishe Wright: Harvey survivor: The loss is hitting me in waves September 1 LaQuishe Wright I woke up Friday morning and looked outside at a deceptively beautiful day. Beautiful because my two sons, Bry and Ryan, two dogs and I are safe and dry and the sun is shining again after days of endless rain. Deceptive because our entire life as we know it is submerged in 4 feet of water less than 20 minutes away. To experience devastation like that brought by Hurricane Harvey feels very different from what you've probably seen on television. I was lucky enough to make it out of my house in Katy with my kids, my dogs, our cars and at least some of our belongings and memories. My neighbors' harrowing evacuations make me feel even luckier to have made it out safely, but I can't help but be concerned about what comes next for us. Read more here Brooke Baldwin: Speaking like this to women in 2017? No way September 18 Brooke Baldwin The newsroom around me fell silent. I was staring into the camera trying to make sense of what was unfolding on live television. I even caught my cameraman Jay's eyes in disbelief. I thought again: "It is 2017, and this grown man is on my show talking with me -- a female host -- about boobs. Is this seriously happening?" And then I did something I've done only a handful of times in my career. I told the control room to kill his mic and said "bye." I invite a variety of people on my show with wide-ranging opinions -- sometimes even my jaw hits the floor, too -- but I let them speak. Whether it's left, right or center -- I want to expose my viewers to other perspectives. Agree with them or not, the nation needs to listen. But this ... was different. Read more here Eleanor McManus, Why I'm speaking up about Mark Halperin October 26 Eleanor McManus Fast forward several months later to when I graduated and asked for an informational meeting. I reached out to Mr. Halperin and he asked me to come see him. I was thrilled that someone from ABC News was willing to meet with me -- perhaps that was my way in the door. It was my first official meeting; I even had to buy a suit for the occasion. I don't quite remember what we talked about, but I do remember him asking me to sit down next to him on the couch. I thought it was awkward to sit on the couch when I was perfectly comfortable sitting in the chair across from his desk. But I complied, and I also remember him sitting a little too close to me... I'm telling my story publicly now because I hope that when this happens again to another young woman, and it will, she will not be so courteous and apologetic. I'm hoping women today will finally speak out in real time -- when this behavior happens. Women cannot stay silent for fear it will damage their careers, because that only allows the aggressor to continue his behavior with other women. Read more here Marvin Washington: Kneeling isn't about patriotism -- it's a distress signal October 14 Marvin Washington I spent 10 years playing in the NFL, won a Super Bowl and have been blessed beyond imagination -- in no small part because of the best fans in professional sports -- fans of multiple races, genders, religions and political persuasions. I'm not confused about the role the fans played in my success and neither are the current players in the league. I understand that many NFL fans on both sides feel strongly about the National Anthem protests and the issues of race that underlie them -- so do I and so do the current players. I am an African-American who grew up in the 1960s and the vitriol that surged two Fridays ago, stoked by a speech delivered in Alabama no less, is eerily reminiscent for me of that dark time in our history. Some players had been engaging in periodic protest long before President Donald Trump's fateful rally, but it's also fair to say this wasn't top of mind for most people before that rally. Trump suggested (mostly white) owners should fire any of the (mostly black) players on their teams who engaged in protest during the National Anthem, and he called them a profane name. The protests, begun by former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick and now being carried on by current players, are not about patriotism -- they are about systemic racial inequality in the criminal justice system. They are about how communities of color are policed -- problems that experts on both sides agree on. Read more here Nicole Stamp: What decent men can do in response to #MeToo October 21 Nicole Stamp 8. Don't use gendered or misogynist insults. Words like bitch, cunt, or slut only target women. Sissy, fairy and cuck demean feminine traits as lesser, weak and undesirable in men. Avoid those words. If you must insult someone, focus on their actions, not their body or their gender. 9. Free kids from rigid gender roles. For boys and young men, you can role-model that activities and traits traditionally coded as "feminine" are valuable. Challenge dismissive ideas around what counts as "girl stuff." Delight in stories with strong female characters. Give a toddler boy a baby doll and praise his gentleness. Race trucks with a little girl. Give kids the tools and confidence to challenge and defy gender stereotypes. 10. Don't focus on little girls' looks. Many people's first interaction with a young girl is to compliment her cuteness, prettiness or clothing. But this tells her -- and any boys nearby -- that beauty is her most interesting trait. Instead, ask little girls engaging, gender-neutral questions, like "What kind of toy is that? What subjects do you like in school? What's your favorite animal? Hey, what are you reading?" There are so many things to talk about. Read more here Brianna Keilar: With my husband deployed, covering the news hits home October 25 Brianna Keilar The last few days the news has been dominated by a controversy over Trump's call to Myeshia Johnson, a Gold Star widow. She is just 24 years old and pregnant with her third child, mourning her husband, Army Sgt. La David Johnson, who was killed in an ISIS ambush in Niger. ... Moments of dignity and solemnity have been interrupted over and over by politics and vitriol and today, it seems, is no different. I turn the television off and retweet the President's tweet, commenting, "As I'm watching 'Taking Chance' this tweet alerts on my phone. And that about sums up this week for me." A few minutes later a man tweets at me: "It's telling that you are only now watching this. Been out for years. More evidence U and other media R in a bubble & don't know real people." I just can't let it go. "My husband is on his sixth deployment right now. You don't know anything about me," I reply. Read more here Don Lemon: Open letter to Trump: Please stop! October 26 Don Lemon Mr. Trump, please stop it. Please stop! Think of what Sgt. Johnson would want. You are putting his widow in the terrible position of having to fight for her dignity when she should be concentrating on taking care of herself, her health, her two children, and the one on the way. Listen to what Myeshia Johnson said this morning in an interview on ABC. "The President said that he knew what he signed up for but it hurts anyways and I was -- it made me cry because I was very angry at the tone of his voice and how he said it. He couldn't remember my husband's name. The only way he remembered my husband's name because he told me he had my husband's report in front of him and that's when he actually said La David." I know you have children -- and two daughters. Can you imagine Ivanka or Tiffany in Myeshia's shoes? Read more here Mel Robbins: Why Americans don't give a damn about mass shootings November 6 Mel Robbins One month ago, the worst mass shooting in US history took place at a country music concert in Las Vegas. Fifty-eight people were killed and more than 500 people injured. Bill O'Reilly boiled the massacre down to six words: "This is the price of freedom." I hate to say it, but he is right. Sunday, just 34 days after Vegas, 26 people were gunned down and about 20 others were wounded during a church service in Texas. And here's what is really sick -- we won't be surprised when there's another mass shooting next month. Maybe it'll be your church, your mall, your concert or your movie theater. That's the price of freedom. In America, we are free to stockpile weapons. We are free to order ammo online. We are free to outfit our guns with bump stocks, like the Vegas shooter did. This is the price we pay for freedom, alright. The freedom to not give a damn. Read more here Jessica Barth: We could have made Weinstein powerless November 9 Jessica Barth It has taken me a few days to process the sudden explosion of allegations of sexual harassment, abuse and assault made against Harvey Weinstein. Each woman who steps forward leaves me with a mixture of emotions. On the one hand, I feel an overwhelming sense of relief and pride when I see women joining together to share their stories. On the other, I experience a sense of horror over the staggering number of accusers. Women stripped of their power, silenced and shamed. I was one of them and recounted my own experience publicly last week. In my own experiences with sexual harassment and assault, I have been made to feel as if I had to compromise my own convictions for the advancement of my career. I was made to believe that my talent and experience should take a back seat to my physical appearance. I was manipulated into believing I had "asked for it." And I was made to feel that if I spoke out or fought back, the repercussions would make me regret it. Read more here Ann Moses: I watched fame take its toll on young David Cassidy November 22 Ann Moses When he got the "Partridge" gig, David was barely 20, and had very little life experience. He also had little or no support system when he became an overnight sensation. I watched it all happen, and later saw it all unravel, as I spent several days a week on the Partridge set, covering David and his co-stars, real-life stepmom Shirley Jones and Susan Dey. At first, David was giddy to be appearing on a prime-time television series. He was cheerful and cooperative, which made my job easier as I worked every angle to come up with stories about this shiny-haired young man. ... A few months later, the nice young man who'd kissed my mom on the cheek in thanks for looking after his puppies was pretty much gone. Whenever I appeared on set, David began to disappear between scenes -- during the times he had once joined me for interviews. I couldn't write about David's favorite snack food (dry-roasted peanuts) or his favorite color ("It depends on my mood") or how he felt about his neat new sports car if he was hiding from me all the time. Read more here David Gergen: Trump's foolish war with the press November 27 David Gergen In other words, we are witness to a war between Trump and the press, playing out every day in newspapers and television. Each morning brings a new revelation; each evening touches off a shouting match. It is difficult to remember any press secretary since Nixon's Ron Ziegler who has faced so much suspicion from the Fourth Estate. Yet what is equally surprising is how oblivious this White House is to what has gone wrong and how to fix it. His team is as disdainful of history as it is of time-honored traditions about press-government relations. Either they suffer from massive incompetence or extraordinary arrogance. History has been quite clear: The presidents who have built the best relationships with the press are those who respect its place in American life, have enjoyed a give and take with reporters and care about the truth. From Democrats like Franklin Roosevelt and Jack Kennedy to Republicans like Teddy Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan, press coverage has been much more favorable because those leaders in the Oval Office were not only good copy but men of character in their public lives. Read more here Mark Bauerlein: Why Trump is still winning December 5 Mark Bauerlein This is the real battle going on in D.C. today: not Democrats vs. Republicans but President Donald Trump vs. establishment Republicans. Trump is trampling upon every taboo and sensitivity that liberalism has erected in the last 50 years, and Republican leaders have learned to get by in that uptight habitat. ... And now, the needle seems to tilt Trump's way. This correction is not that hard to understand. You see, Trump has an invincible ally at the far end of the ideological spectrum. I don't mean the extreme right, the nationalists, paleoconservatives, and fringe groups that the media relentlessly tie to the President. He has better friends at the other pole, people on the far left who see the world only through the lens of race, gender, sexuality and victimhood. Read more here Arianne Zucker, I have no fear, so 'Access Hollywood' tape will never define me December 6 Arianne Zucker Now that the "Access Hollywood" tape is back in the news after reports that Donald Trump questions its authenticity, I am puzzled for this reason: Just from experience, anyone who has ever been on television before, with a microphone pinned to them, should always assume that someone is listening. And when you get caught speaking poorly about someone, at least own up to it. People ask me whether I need or want an individual apology from either now-President Trump or Billy Bush. Well, apologizing to me would be the appropriate thing to do. Am I losing sleep over it waiting for one? Absolutely not. I refuse to let a situation such as this one take away my emotional power. You are who you allow yourself to be and I did not and will not let this event or any of its aftermath affect who I am as a woman, mother, daughter, friend and partner to a great man.
DAVIDSONVILLE, Md. - A cow had to be rescued by firefighters after she had a hard time 'mooooving' on Tuesday. The cow reportedly fell into a pool in the 3800 block of Birdsville Road and couldn't get out. It took multiple crews, and the homeowners, about an hour and a half to create make-shift stairs made out of cinderblocks to get the cow out of the pool. But as soon as she was out, she was unable to get up on her own. Crews tried multiple things to get her up, with no luck. Eventually, they built a harness made out of fire hoses to lift her with a tractor and move her to a pasture. At last, she was able to stand on her own and be free. Officials say it took around three hours total to get the cow out of the pool and move her.
Story highlights Mark Zuckerberg announced that his wife had three miscarriages while trying to get pregnant Jodi Abbott, Eugene Declercq: We need to talk about pregnancy loss more; there is no shame in having a miscarriage Jodi F. Abbott is vice chair for education at the Obstetrics and Gynecology Department, Boston University School of Medicine. Eugene Declercq, founder of Birth by the Numbers, is professor and assistant dean at Community Health Sciences Department, Boston University School of Public Health. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the authors. (CNN) Recently, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced that he and his wife, Priscilla Chan, are going to have a baby girl. In his public post that went viral, Zuckerberg wrote: "We want to share one experience to start. We've been trying to have a child for a couple of years and have had three miscarriages along the way. You feel so hopeful when you learn you're going to have a child. You start imagining who they'll become and dreaming of hopes for their future. You start making plans, and then they're gone. It's a lonely experience." Zuckerberg's frank admission of his wife's three miscarriages led to a vast outpouring of stories from women and families who have faced a similar situation. Millennials have become accustomed to posting their lives online, and yet, as they are coupling and starting families they are discovering that few experiences are as isolating as losing a desired pregnancy. Eugene Declercq Jodi F. Abbott On top of that, there is a certain stigma associated with miscarriages, as though it's the fault of the parents. But it isn't, and the stigma will be removed only if we talk about it more -- openly and honestly. There is no shame in having a miscarriage. Read More
(CNN) If you think you had a tough morning at work, spare a thought for this hotel valet in Sydney. Tasked with parking a Porsche Carrera for a hotel guest, he managed to wedge it under the SUV parked in front, and ram a second parked car against a row of metal bollards. "I saw the valet hit the car in front from a parked position," said Jonathan Bouzaid, who watched events unfold and posted photos to Instagram. "He then must have panicked and hit the accelerator causing the Porsche to go further under the orange car and pushing the white car into the bollards," Bouzaid said. "I think the valet wasn't aware of the power that you get when starting a Porsche," he added. The luxurious Porsche Carrera can accelerate from 0 to 100km/h in less than five seconds, according to the company's website. Read More
This winter, a young woman described a date with comedian Aziz Ansari that ended in a sexual experience she said left her feeling uncomfortable, violated, and ashamed. But in many jurisdictions, the details of that experience wouldn't have constituted rape or sexual assault, and Ansari himself said that all indications, from his point of view, meant that their sexual activity was consensual. Many of us can recount situations where we weren't 100 per cent on board with a sexual activity even if we did not directly say so, or where we felt like things had crossed a personal line even if they had not crossed a legal one. These experiences are difficult to talk about, as evidenced by the intense debate that followed the story about Ansari. But if a sexual experience wasn't OK for you, then it wasn't OK. The process for acknowledging, dealing with, and moving on from a bad sexual experience is going to be different for everyone. That's OK, and it's normal. What is important is that you deal with it in a way that helps you remain healthy and well. This expert advice can help, wherever you are in that process. Know the law Canadian law defines sexual assault broadly, including all unwanted sexual touching — grabbing, kissing, fondling, as well as forced oral sex or intercourse. And consent under Canadian law is defined as voluntary agreement to engage in the sexual activity in question; silence or passivity doesn't imply consent. Knowing the law may help you reckon with your feelings about a sexual experience, whether or not you decide to press charges at any point. Understand it's not your fault "By now, most of us got the message that blaming the victim of sexual assault or any other misconduct is not the solution," clinical psychologist Viola Drancoli told HuffPost Canada by email. "Unfortunately, many times survivors of sexual harassment tend to blame themselves for what happened." The first step of moving away from this pattern is to acknowledge that you have been violated, even if that acknowledgment itself is uncomfortable, Drancoli said. Acknowledge your feelings "It is a natural reaction to want to forget and push the emotions away," therapist Donna Oriowo told HuffPost Canada by email. "Don't." It can be painful to acknowledge that what happened to you was wrong, or that it made you feel badly, especially if a partner you love or trust is involved. But bottling those feelings up doesn't make them go away or help you resolve them in the long term, Oriowo said. "When we suppress our emotions, they tend to get stronger and more concentrated with time," she said. "We may think we forgot, but really we can have outbursts and get angry over seemingly small things." There are tips below for reaching out to people for support, but if you're not ready for that, journalling can be a helpful way to express your emotions without talking or suppressing them, she said. When the problem is your partner Sometimes, even a sexual experience with a partner, one who has otherwise been respectful of your boundaries, can make you feel uncomfortable or ashamed. "If you have engaged in a sexual act with a trusted partner that has made you feel uncomfortable or unsafe I recommend talking to them about it directly," therapist Bianca Rodriguez told HuffPost Canada by email. And remember, just because you and a partner had a particular sexual experience once doesn't mean you are obligated to do it again — whether you consented to that experience or not. "Allow yourself permission to change your mind then discuss your feelings with your partner and devise a plan to ensure your comfort and safety in the future," Rodriguez said. Find help Finding support is the best way to heal, Rodriguez said, whatever that support looks like for you. You can speak to friends and family you trust, if you are comfortable talking to them about what happened. Alternatively, or in addition, you can seek out a support group for survivors, or find an individual therapist to talk with. If costs are a concern, Rodriguez suggests seeking out a psychology graduate program in your area, where sliding scale counselling with students is often available. Women's centres in your area may also offer counselling at low or no cost. There are also helplines across the country that offer an anonymous way to talk, and are often available at any time of day or night, including the Assaulted Women's Helpline at 1-866-863-0511. Avoid isolation "After sexual assault or a questionable sexual experience, it is not uncommon to want to isolate yourself and never talk to anyone," Oriowo said. "But it can be the opposite of helpful to be left alone with the thoughts of what happened." Make an effort to spend time with people who love and support you — it can distract you from things for a while, it can help you have some fun during a time when that might be hard, and it will remind you of the people in your life who care for you and want you to be well. Decide how to proceed Depending on the circumstances, you may decide to address the experience in some way: confronting the person responsible, ending a relationship, reporting it to a relevant school or workplace authority, and/or pressing charges. "Getting support from someone close to you can help you decide about the next steps," Drancoli said. Talking to someone about what happened to you can be helpful because it can put things in perspective and help you clarify how you feel about the situation and what you want to do to move forward. Some people will decide that the best path for them is not to report the incident. The decision about whether or not to report assault or harassment is a personal one, and the path will be different for everyone. Also on HuffPost:
Story highlights Peggy Drexler: Male models at Rick Owens' Paris runway show wore clothes that exposed their penises She says as we become harder to shock, the culture keeps going lower and lower. The bottom is in sight Peggy Drexler is the author of "Our Fathers, Ourselves: Daughters, Fathers, and the Changing American Family" and "Raising Boys Without Men." She is an assistant professor of psychology at Weill Medical College of Cornell University and a former gender scholar at Stanford University. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the writer. (CNN) In Paris on Thursday, fashion designer Rick Owens gave audiences quite a show when he sent male models down the runway wearing clothes with peepholes that offered a glimpse of the guys' formerly private parts. "Nudity is the most simple and primal gesture -- it packs a punch," Owens said of his decision to have his models bare all. "It's powerful. ... Who else can really get away with this stuff? It's a corporate world!" The looks were simply for shock and awe and the attention such reactions generate -- after all, they can't be worn out in public and won't be sold in stores. But let's be honest: Were we even shocked? After all, female models have been asked to sashay down runways in states of near nakedness for years. Meanwhile, more and more films are featuring full frontal male nudity. There was Michael Fassbender in "Shame," of course. And who can forget the uproar over the cameo of Ben Affleck's penis in "Gone Girl," albeit so brief one had to know the precise moment to look for it? And if we've seen Ben Affleck's penis, who cares about some male model's? Of course, women have been going full frontal in films for years. Read More
Gaza (CNN) A group of young men limp through the dust. The new symbols of Palestinian defiance, they say they were shot by Israeli troops during demonstrations close to the fence in the besieged enclave of the Gaza Strip. They're given seats close to the stage, in the shade of a warehouse-sized tent where the fiery speeches of some of Gaza's leading militant leaders ring out. Their places of honor were earned by being wounded during demonstrations against Israel's blockade of the Gaza Strip, which it jointly conducts with Egypt. "We will continue our marches despite the huge difference in the balance of power, but one thing that this Zionist enemy does not have and we have, determination, will and sacrifice," bellows Khaled al-Batsh, a leader in Islamic Jihad, considered a terrorist organization by the US and, like Hamas, which rules Gaza, dedicated to the destruction of the Jewish State. Demonstrators in the crowd near the border with Israel the day after more than 60 people were killed. Often described, even by supporters of Israel, as the "biggest open prison in the world," Gaza is home to over two million people who have been locked in by Israel and Egypt and live under Hamas' hard-line rule. Israel says the blockade -- which has been in place since Hamas took control of Gaza in 2007 -- is designed to stop the smuggling of arms into the territory. The Israeli government maintains it allows inflows of humanitarian aid. Hamas remains dedicated to the Jewish state's demise but is now struggling to co-opt, or harness, a popular and largely non-violent uprising originally organized by ordinary citizens. The deadliest clashes in years broke out the day the United States moved its embassy to Israel in Jerusalem, the city claimed by both Israel and the Palestinians as their capital. Palestinian health officials say that more than 2,700 protestors were injured and 62 killed by Israeli soldiers ordered to defend the fence that encircles Gaza. Medical records show that many of those injured were shot in the legs, according to the Palestinian health ministry. No Israeli troops were injured in what may have been a grassroots demonstration but one that experts agree could not have happened without Hamas' endorsement -- and even help. Mohamed Zeneti, 22, shot in the foot in protests on May 14, is undergoing his second surgery. The best-case scenario is he will walk with a limp. Israel insists that the demonstrations are a front for terrorist plots to break through the fence and launch operations against its citizens -- especially as Hamas continues to insist that it is dedicated to the complete destruction of the Jewish State. "Hamas is in charge of the Gaza Strip. Nothing happens here without Hamas' approval and it approves of the demonstrations," said Reham Owda, a prominent political analyst in Gaza. "I think that Hamas is very proud to be embracing two ideologies. One is violent ideology and second is non-violent ideology. It depends on the time. Now the current situation in the Middle East doesn't allow Hamas to use violence and it is better for it to adopt peaceful ideology because it gains more international support and more support from Gaza people," Owda added. Palestinians burn tires near the border fence with Israel. "We believe that Hamas is responsible for these tragic deaths, that their rather cynical exploitation of the situation is what's leading to these deaths, and we want them to stop," Raj Shah, a spokesman for the White House said. "This is a gruesome and unfortunate propaganda attempt," he added. In an interview with CNN, Hamas co-founder Mahmoud al-Zahar admitted that there was a propaganda advantage to the deaths and injuries that came with the demonstrations, where some Palestinians aimed slingshots and Molotov cocktails at Israeli forces and were met with live fire. "We are very sorry about our victims. This is an important point but I think it is good for people [who] believe Israel is a peaceful system and only the aggressive side is from Hamas and the armed struggle," said al-Zahar. Senior Hamas leader Ismail Haniya and spokesman Fawzi Barhoum attend a rally in Gaza City on July 22, 2017. Al-Zahar insisted that while there were members of Hamas present at the demonstrations, both from the Qassam Brigades, its armed wing, and from its civilian branches, there was no plan to tear down the fence and launch terror attacks inside Israel. "The military wing is secret so nobody can deny that they are present everywhere ... if you are believing that Hamas is an isolated object it is not true, Hamas is involved in everything; present in hospitals, in school, in all affairs. Hamas is present everywhere so it's not a strange thing to say supporters of Hamas, even leaders of Hamas, are participating in the demonstration against the Israeli occupation... "It is purely symbolic. The protestors came from all the factions and from ordinary people. This was not just organized by Hamas," Al-Zahar said. But other officials have tried to boast of a high level of Hamas participation -- possibly a sign that the group feels it needs to show a heavy presence in the demonstrations because of the widespread revulsion over the bloodshed -- in an effort to exploit the propaganda "victory" for the Palestinians. Salah al-Bardaweel, a Hamas politician, claimed that 50 of those killed on May 14 had been members of Hamas. Independent inquiries by CNN show that 24 of the dead were in some way affiliated with the movement and Hamas paid for the funerals of 26 others. Ahmad Abu Artema says he is inspired by Martin Luther King Jr and Mahatma Gandhi. Historically, non-violence has failed to take off among the Palestinians. During the Second Intifada in the early 2000s, attempts to organize non-violent protests (which included a ban on slingshots and throwing rocks) were stymied by Fatah, the biggest political movement in the West Bank. Fatah's own "youth" broke up non-violent action against the Israelis under the leadership of Yasser Arafat. The ruling party was worried that the highly democratic nature of non-violent mass participation could undermine its vise-like grip on Palestinian power. Ahmad Abu Artema , who was the originator of what he hoped would be a prolonged non-violent campaign called the "march of return." He believes that non-violence has the potential to undermine the Israeli blockade of Gaza in a way that violence never could. He says that that up until three years ago it would have been inconceivable to get popular support for the demonstrations, much less the backing of Hamas and other militant groups. "But they now realize, perhaps, that this is a way that could work. The Israelis have little idea what to do when confronted with non-violent protests," Artema said. Yaakov Perry, who used to run Shin Bet -- Israel's domestic intelligence agency, which is responsible for the West Bank and Gaza -- agrees. "Non-violent steps are easy to handle for Hamas or other terrorist organizations but almost impossible to handle from our side, from Israel's side. If a million or half a million people decided to march from Gaza to Jerusalem it would be very, very complicated, almost impossible, to tackle or to handle," Perry said. Such a challenge is unlikely for now. Hamas called for a million to join the May 14 protests, but only an estimated 30,000-40,000 showed up. And given that Hamas has said it wants to see the destruction of the Jewish state and the "evacuation" of its citizens, the movement may only be harnessing non-violence temporarily. "Now is not the time for war," Hamas co-founder Zahar said. "But there is one coming."
If there's a season to start wearing makeup primer, it's summer. For those who need a primer on primer, it's the step before you apply foundation. When the weather starts heating up, it can be hard to keep makeup from sliding off your face, but not if you utilize primer first. Not only does primer keep your makeup intact, it also creates a smoother base to work with. Worn on its own, primer can blur out blemishes and give you a more polished appearance on days when you don't want to put on foundation. But not all primers are created equal and when it comes to summer skincare, it's important to pick one that offers broad spectrum sun protection. Before the sun gets any more intense, do yourself a favour and pick up a great primer with SPF. Your skin will thank you in the long run. 1. Dermalogica Skinperfect Primer SPF 30 A post shared by H E N R I K (@henrikcom) on Feb 5, 2018 at 3:22pm PST Dermalogica's Skinperfect Primer with SPF 30 is a skincare quadruple threat. It serves to brighten, cover blemishes, reduce fine lines and, of course, protect against sun damage. Get it here: Dermalogica, $73 2. Neutrogena Healthy Skin Primer Broad Spectrum SPF 15 A post shared by Neutrogena (@neutrogena) on Apr 12, 2018 at 6:00am PDT A low cost but high impact product is Neutrogena's Healthy Skin Primer with broad spectrum SPF. Much like Dermalogica's primer, it also performs a number of functions, including minimizing blemishes, extending the life of makeup, and offering sun protection. At less than $20, it's a small price to pay for healthy, glowing skin. Get it here: Amazon, $19.14 3. Coola SPF 30 Daydream Mineral Primer A post shared by COOLA NORGE (@coola_norge) on May 22, 2018 at 10:19am PDT This all-natural primer will leave your skin feeling silky smooth and you'll see a noticeable difference in how your makeup applies. Those who are sensitive to scents will appreciate the unscented formula. Get it here: Sephora, $57 4. Murad Invisiblur Perfecting Shield Broad Spectrum SPF A post shared by Murad Skincare Canada (@muradcanada) on Feb 23, 2017 at 2:17pm PST Your pores will look barely there with Murad's Perfecting Shield Primer. It works well on oily skin and won't leave it feeling greasy. At $78, it's an investment, but not one you'll regret. Get it here: Murad, $78 5. Mac Prep + Prime Face Protect SPF 50 A post shared by Noelle McCrory Makeup (@noelle_mccrorymakeup_) on May 28, 2018 at 8:39am PDT This is another favourite among those with oily skin because it contains oil-absorbing powder. The Mac Prep + Prime Face Protect with SPF 50 is a gel lotion, so it's perfect for those impending hot summer months. Get it here: Mac Cosmetics, $39 6. E.L.F. Beauty Shield SPF 50 Skin Shielding Primer A post shared by Emi (@projectswatch) on Jan 14, 2018 at 9:45am PST Another wallet-friendly option is E.L.F. Beauty Shield Primer with SPF 50. The tinted formula means this product works almost like a BB cream. It has a slightly thicker texture so if you're looking for a primer that also works as a foundation, this is it. Get it here: E.L.F Cosmetics, $15.63 7. Josh Rosebrook Tinted Nutrient Day Cream with SPF 30 A post shared by Traci D (@tracidrury) on Nov 13, 2017 at 6:00pm PST Marketed as a moisturizer, Josh Rosebrook's Tinted Nutrient Day Cream also serves as a primer. This is a great option for those who are serious about the ingredients in their skincare. Rosebrook's line of skincare products only contain organic ingredients derived from plants. Even their zinc oxide is high quality, uncoated and high micron. Get it here: The Detox Market, $142.50 8. Hourglass Veil Mineral Primer with SPF 15 A post shared by Hourglass Cosmetics (@hourglasscosmetics) on May 14, 2018 at 11:01am PDT Hourglass seems like they can do no wrong, and their Veil Mineral Primer is no exception. For those planning on splashing around at the lake, this primer is also water repellent. Get it here: Sephora, $63 9. IPKN Colour Correcting Primer with SPF 15 A post shared by 鈴木奈々ちゃんの妹🧚🏻‍♀️いくみん💕 (@akaikumin) on Mar 18, 2018 at 5:14am PDT IPKN is a Korean skincare line "inspired by NYC." We're not quite sure what that means, but what we do know is sun protection is a huge concern for those hailing from East Asia. IPKN offers a colour correcting primer in two shades. Depending on what you're looking to neutralize, you have the option of a green or purple primer, as well as a more generic radiant primer with SPF 15. Get it here: Nordstrom, $38.26 10. Nars Radiance Primer SPF 35 + SPF 50 A post shared by Barbora (@barsbeautybar) on Mar 29, 2018 at 12:22am PDT Nars offers their Radiance Primer in SPF 35 and SPF 50. The oil-free and non-comedogenic formula is great if you're concerned about breakouts. In general, Nars is a consistently reliable brand if you're looking for a solid product that actually works. Get it here: Nordstrom, $49.18 Also on HuffPost:
We now pronounce you wizard husband and wife. “Harry Potter” actor Matthew Lewis, who played Neville Longbottom in the eight movies based on the magical book series, wed girlfriend Angela Jones in Italy over the weekend. The British actor announced their nuptials by joking that he missed a performance of one of his favorite bands in Los Angeles, while he was tying the knot in another country.
MALLUR, Karnataka -- Muneer Katipalla, while searching for a quiet place to speak with HuffPost India, refused to step into the mosque situated right across from the street where he was campaigning in Mallur village of coastal Karnataka. It would send the wrong message to the public and compromise his stand, explained the 41-year-old candidate from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) – CPI(M) - who is challenging Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) heavyweights in the deeply polarised Assembly constituency of North Mangalore. Locals describe coastal Karnataka as a "laboratory of Hindutva," and its politicians have few compunctions about exploiting the bloodshed between Hindus and Muslims for votes. Katipalla, however, is marching to a different beat, which is not only in line with his party's ideology, but also his own convictions. The Muslim Communist, along with his devoted band of Hindu followers, is out to prove that religion has no place in politics. The father of two, who has assets less than Rs 2 lakh, doesn't believe it is naive to fight an election exclusively on issues like governance, health, education and the environment. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube With the exception of GV Srirama Reddy, who won the Bagepalli Assembly constituency seat in 1994 and 2004, no candidate from the either the CPI(M) or the Communist Party of India (CPI) has prevailed in Karnataka since 1983. The CPI(M) has fielded 19 candidates in the 2018 Assembly election. Excerpts: How are you Muslim and a Communist? Why not? It strikes one as a contradiction. Communism in India is different. In Bengal and Kerala, where the Left has been in power for a long time, there are a lot of Muslims in communist parties. The Communist Party has no objection to the personal belief of their members. We have no problems with people's belief system. We have a problem with communalism, we have a problem with fundamentalism and violence in the name of religion. Karl Marx says that religion is also the sigh of the oppressed, but it should not be the opiate. My opponent from the Congress, Mohiuddin Bava, is telling people that I don't believe in God. That's all he has to say about me. Communism in India is different. Do you believe in God? That's a personal question. Do you pray? I pray for the people (laughs). Politics is different and my personal beliefs are different. When your opponent says that you don't believe in God, do you think it hurts your chances? He is trying his best to bring me down, but I'm not corrupt. We are always with the poor people, with the oppressed, not with the rich. That is why the Congress candidate has nothing else to say against me except that I have no religious beliefs. Four years back, one Bajrang Dal activist, Rajesh Poojary, was murdered here and three young Muslim boys were arrested although they were not connected to the case. Nobody supported them, neither the Congress government nor the Congress MLA. The communists stood by them and persuaded the police to remove their name from the case because they were innocent. That is why people trust me a lot. Muneer Katipalla, CPI (M) candidate, campaigning in Mannur, Karnataka in May, 2018. People say that you will help the BJP by cutting into the Congress vote. We are a national-level political party and so I'm contesting. Seventy-five to 80% of my activists are Hindus. I'm not asking for Hindu votes or Muslim votes, but votes based on my performance. I'm not asking for Hindu votes or Muslim votes, but votes based on my performance. Congress says it is a secular party. Do you agree? I do not say that Congress is not a secular party. The party is secular but not its candidates. Sometimes, those who are in the Congress join the BJP when they don't get seats, and those who are in the BJP join the Congress, so how can they be called secular? It is not enough for the party to be secular, but for its candidates as well. The BJP accuses Congress of appeasing Muslims. Do you agree? It's not appeasement, but it is attraction. To call it as appeasement, they should have been given jobs and houses. Why do Muslims feel they have no option but to vote for the Congress? There is no alternative. The other strong party is JD(S), which calls itself secular, but have joined with BJP so many times that Muslims don't trust it. The Left is strong in trade unions, workers' movement, but we have not developed politically in Karnataka. What do you make of the cycle of violence between Hindus and Muslims in coastal Karnataka? It is being done for political benefits. Here, the government has not created any medical facilities, education facilities or given jobs to youngsters. They are promoting polluting industries. They imprison innocent people. They engineer these killings to create a split, to show people they can protect them, and to divert attention away from the real problems likes job, education and houses. They engineer these killings to create a split, to show people they can protect them, and to divert attention away from the real problems likes job, education and houses. Who do you think is more dangerous in the area – the Hindu extremists or the Islamic fundamentalists? The Sangh Parivar, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Why not the PFI (Popular Front of India)? The PFI developed because the minorities were being attacked for the past 15 years. What are the issues that you are running on? Anti-corruption, education and health. There are seven private medical colleges in Mangalore. I want a government medical college. There is good education here but there are no government facilities. We want government schools. Education is a major industry here. All the education is in the private sector, so really meritorious students don't get a chance unless they can make big donations, two lakhs, three lakhs, four lakhs per year. Young people are worried about unemployment. Some want multinational companies (MNCs) to come here. I don't have problem with MNCs as long as they are job-driven. Let them make profit, but the local youth should also profit. I would like industries to come here but non-polluting industries. We should also develop tourism. Do you feel that you have the resources to go up against the Congress and BJP? My boys won't even take money from others for tea or lunch, but for Congress and the BJP, nobody will work unless they are paid. There is a war between idealism and money. My slogan is 'no corruption and no compromise.' Another slogan is – 'This is a struggle against the rich capitalists by the common people.' It is not a struggle between Hindus and Muslims. It is a struggle between 10% of the exploiters and 90% of the exploited. It is not a struggle between Hindus and Muslims. It is a struggle between 10 percent of the exploiters and 90 percent of the exploited. Money does often win over idealism. I see this as a long-term struggle. I'm not a sprinter but a marathon runner. I have cultivated people here, and they will stay with me for the next election as well. Still, money does help. We all submitted a statement of our assets, I have only Rs. 1,98,000. One lakh rupees in life insurance, a Bullet bike worth Rs. 70,000, that's it. No house, no land. Someone asked me how will you do politics without money. They bring people in helicopters (Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been using a helicopter to reach various election rallies across the state). There are thousands of people here who applied for land, when they don't have a house, why should I have a house? After they get a house, perhaps I will get a house. Is it possible for BJP and Congress candidates to say that? Many people vote for the BJP because they like Modi. Do you feel like you're going up against Modi? Modi has not filed nomination papers here, so why are they bringing him to caampaign? There is no point asking for votes for Bharath Shetty or Vedvyas Kamat (local BJP candidates) and that is why they have to bring him. Nobody has come from my party. I'm contesting against the policies of the BJP and the Congress. Who is one person you admire the most? Fidel Castro. Also on HuffPost India:
Marriages don’t deteriorate overnight. There’s often a gradual decline, sometimes over years or decades, that leads to an eventual breaking point and makes divorce inevitable. We asked now-divorced men to reveal the moment that signaled their marriages were finally over for good. Here’s what they said: 1. When my son mentioned ‘mommy’s new friend.’ “I should have known it was over when she said at dinner that she didn’t know whether she loved me anymore. I should have known it after 18 months of sleeping in separate bedrooms. I should have known it when she stopped demonstrating any positive or negative emotions toward me. I should have known it after spending a holiday weekend with our young son on a road trip that she declined to take with us. I should have known it after I saw her missing wedding ring upon returning home from that trip. I should have known it when she moved out the next day, driving away with our little boy in the back seat. But I didn’t. Still, I hoped. And then, two weeks later, my son innocently mentioned a dog and some little girls he had been playing with. They belonged to ‘mommy’s new friend.’ ‘Did you have a sleepover at mommy’s new friend’s house?’ ‘Yes.’ I never knew a one-word answer from a child could be so lethal and life-changing. I thought I might die, right then. That’s when I knew.” ― Matthew 2. When she said ‘I hate you’ and meant it. “Like the end of most marriages, mine included a lot of dominoes tipping into the next, but there always seems to be that first domino that starts the process. My ex-wife made arguing an Olympic sport. During one fight over something I can’t even recall, she looked at me red-faced and yelled, ’I hate you,’ and I knew she meant it. There is no coming back from that four-letter word.” ― Bill 3. When I realized sleeping in the guest room was better than sleeping next to my wife. “One typical winter day I came down with some horrible sickness and quarantined myself in the guest bedroom to avoid spreading my plague to my wife. After I recovered, I realized I preferred staying in the guest room. I am still a strong believer in the fact that most people sleep better alone, but it does create a literal separation between the couple. Then I started noticing other differences and changes in us as individuals and in our marriage. But if I had to pinpoint one moment, it’s the moment I quarantined our marriage. We both survived and are thriving; however, our marriage stayed in quarantine and didn’t make it out.” ― Adam 4. When her dream house was more like a nightmare to me. “After we sold our first home, we were looking for new houses. I had a couple that I really liked, but she was stuck on this one house and kept coming back to it. I hated that house. It was hideous inside, untouched since 1978 (ugh, that wallpaper!), not in the town I wanted to live in and nothing about it tempted me. When we walked in the front door for a showing, I watched her face light up like I hadn’t seen in years. She walked around wide-eyed from room to room, and in the face of all the horrible decor and issues with disrepair she told me it felt like her ‘forever home.’ I put aside my own wants and we made an offer the same day. Now, I had always been a subscriber to the ‘happy wife, happy life’ mantra, but this was different. In some sad and serene part of me, I knew I wasn’t going to be in that house forever ― but I wanted her to have it. For her. It was at that moment that I knew that I still loved her but that it was done. I spent the next year remodeling that house on nights and weekends, and roughly about when it was done we split. She still has the house, and I’m happy for that.” ― Billy 5. When I refused to deal with my own underlying anxieties about commitment. “When I look back at my marriage a dozen years after divorce, trying to define what exactly went wrong, my hindsight doesn’t stop anywhere within the previous dozen years that I was married. It inevitably goes back further, to all those years of early adulthood when I realized my anxiety about forming deep relationships with anyone, let alone potential spouses. Instead of examining that and getting help to deal with the issues that kept me from forming real connections with people, I blame them instead. As a result, when it came to forge a real commitment, I just didn’t have the tools to ultimately be successful at it. If divorce has taught me anything, it’s that the seeds for it are growing within us long before we ever meet our potential life partner. And it’s up to us to eliminate that crop before even trying to cultivate a relationship.” ― Craig 6. When my wife’s divorced friends convinced her we were doomed. “When my wife spent most of her free time with other divorced women. She had already moved into the guest bedroom and was disengaged at counseling, but the real force pulling her away was her ‘friends’ telling her it was ‘her turn.’ There’s an old saying: ‘Show me your friends and I’ll show you your future.’” ― Bill 7. When I didn’t care enough to try anymore. “While it didn’t feel altogether different that time, the weeks leading up to my divorce were more strained and frustrating than in times we had fought before. As I look back on it now, however, I realize that even I had given up. I was no longer trying. What had once been a challenge for us to overcome together became a battle for us to fight independent of one another. That realization hit me pretty hard that night, as I lay in bed just a few hours after she asked to take a break. By the time she revealed she wanted a divorce, just a day and a half later, I had already recognized that this was it, we were done. I was done. It hurt, but I didn’t care anymore.” ― Derick 8. When we realized we hadn’t liked each other in years. “I was a complete mess. I cannot speak for my ex-wife. But for me, I was simply not in a good place in my life and had long since lost my identity. I was so spent from trying to figure things out in a career that doesn’t tolerate mistakes. Slowly, trapped in an isolating mindset, failures became my only confidants. Failures and self-loathing became my past time and closest friends. And over time, a person as messed up as I was simply cannot love anyone correctly. I’ve made my peace with the fact that when we internally dislike ourselves at such deep levels, we are in no place to love anyone else. We simply keep trying to fill the hole in our souls in the hopes we won’t feel as damaged as we know we are. In the end, my ex and I simply stopped trying to love or even hate each other. All emotions were simply no longer accessible. We began to realize that the last time we liked each other was well before marriage and even dating. Long before all that, we were just really good friends.” ― Michael 9. When I justified her bad behavior. “The first time I brought up the fact that our relationship wasn’t going to work, she broke my headphones. I think, deep down inside, I knew the relationship wouldn’t last early on. She would lose her temper quickly, become increasingly paranoid and jealous and yell a lot. I kept justifying anything bad that happened. I had no escape, at least that’s how it felt at the time. I was afraid to leave for fear of being hurt or stalked or humiliated in front of peers.” ― Tom 10. When I realized we weren’t even fighting, we were just avoiding each other. “It was a long series of events, and decisions that slowly led to the final demise: when we stopped holding hands in public, when we no longer did date nights together, when we started to confide in others rather than our spouse, when we started to feel like the other person was an obstacle to our happiness rather than an advocate for it. Unlike a lot of couples, we never fought. We just gradually learned to avoid each other, and little by little, it led to a decision to end it. By the time I really saw the signs, and understood what they meant, it felt like it was already too late.” ― Gerald Note: Respondents’ last names were withheld to protect their privacy and the privacy of their families. Some responses have been lightly edited or condensed for clarity.
(CNN) A routine business trip turned into tense drama for six Americans flying from Austin, Texas, to Honduras. A company jet they were traveling in crashed off the runway Tuesday, almost splitting in two, when it landed at Toncontin International Airport near the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa. All six people aboard -- four passengers and two crew members -- survived. One of the passengers and a crew member sustained extensive injuries. "Thank God there are no reported human losses, the wounded are stable and cared for," Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernández said after the crash. Broken in half, the jet lies engulfed in foam sprayed by Honduran firefighters. "Thank you to those first responders who were so quick to assist," said Heide Fulton, the top US diplomat in Honduras. "We are monitoring events closely. The Embassy is providing all appropriate consular assistance." Read More
(CNN) One of my earliest memories is sitting on my grandfather's shoulders, waving a flag as our astronauts returned to Hawaii. This was years before we'd set foot on the moon. Decades before we'd land a rover on Mars. A generation before photos from the International Space Station would show up in our social media feeds. I still have the same sense of wonder about our space program that I did as a child. It represents an essential part of our character -- curiosity and exploration, innovation and ingenuity, pushing the boundaries of what's possible and doing it before anybody else. The space race we won not only contributed immeasurably important technological and medical advances, but it also inspired a new generation of scientists and engineers with the right stuff to keep America on the cutting edge. That's one of the reasons why, in my first address as President to the American people, I vowed to return science to its rightful place. In our first few months, my administration made the largest single investment in basic research in our history, and I went to the Kennedy Space Center to call for reimagining and reinvigorating our space program to explore more of our solar system and look deeper into the universe than ever. In the years since, we've revitalized technology innovation at NASA, extended the life of the International Space Station, and helped American companies create private-sector jobs by capitalizing on the untapped potential of the space industry. Last year alone, NASA discovered flowing water on Mars and evidence of ice on one of Jupiter's moons, and we mapped Pluto -- more than 3 billion miles away -- in high-resolution. Our space telescopes revealed additional Earth-like planets orbiting distant stars, and we're pursuing new missions to interact with asteroids, which will help us learn how to protect the Earth from the threat of colliding with one while also teaching us about the origins of life on Earth. We've flown by every planet in the solar system -- something no other nation can say. And we continue to drive down the cost of space exploration for taxpayers. This week, we'll convene some of America's leading scientists, engineers, innovators and students in Pittsburgh to dream up ways to build on our progress and find the next frontiers. Just five years ago, US companies were shut out of the global commercial launch market. Today, thanks to groundwork laid by the men and women of NASA, they own more than a third of it. More than 1,000 companies across nearly all 50 states are working on private space initiatives. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook We have set a clear goal vital to the next chapter of America's story in space: sending humans to Mars by the 2030s and returning them safely to Earth, with the ultimate ambition to one day remain there for an extended time. Getting to Mars will require continued cooperation between government and private innovators, and we're already well on our way. Within the next two years, private companies will for the first time send astronauts to the International Space Station. The next step is to reach beyond the bounds of Earth's orbit. I'm excited to announce that we are working with our commercial partners to build new habitats that can sustain and transport astronauts on long-duration missions in deep space. These missions will teach us how humans can live far from Earth -- something we'll need for the long journey to Mars. The reporter who covered the moon landing for The New York Times, John Noble Wilford, later wrote that Mars tugs at our imagination "with a force mightier than gravity." Getting there will take a giant leap. But the first, small steps happen when our students -- the Mars generation -- walk into their classrooms each day. Scientific discovery doesn't happen with the flip of a switch; it takes years of testing, patience and a national commitment to education. President Eisenhower knew this: In 1958, he devoted great resources to science and math education around the same time he created NASA. And it's why I'm proud that we've passed important milestones in STEM education. For the first time, more than 100,000 engineers are graduating from American schools every year, and we're on track to accomplish my goal of training 100,000 excellent new STEM teachers in a decade. When our Apollo astronauts looked back from space, they realized that while their mission was to explore the moon, they had "in fact discovered the Earth." If we make our leadership in space even stronger in this century than it was in the last, we won't just benefit from related advances in energy, medicine, agriculture and artificial intelligence, we'll benefit from a better understanding of our environment and ourselves. Someday, I hope to hoist my own grandchildren onto my shoulders. We'll still look to the stars in wonder, as humans have since the beginning of time. But instead of eagerly awaiting the return of our intrepid explorers, we'll know that because of the choices we make now, they've gone to space not just to visit, but to stay -- and in doing so, to make our lives better here on Earth.
Working from home can be a dream for many. But for some, it can also mean a bigger tax bill. If you live in one state but work remotely for an employer based in another, you risk paying more tax than you would if you lived and worked in the same state. In a few cases, you may even end up double taxed. The good news: You can avoid this fate if your home state has a reciprocal tax agreement with a neighboring state, which establishes that your income would only be taxed by one of the two. Such agreements exist in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, New Jersey, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin as well as the District of Columbia. Or, absent a reciprocal agreement, those who work from home some of the time may be allowed to split their income tax burden: They pay tax on income earned from home to their resident state, and they pay tax to their employer's state for days they work at the office. But that's not always the case. How you can end up double taxed You risk being double taxed if you live in one state but work for a company based in New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Pennsylvania or Nebraska. These five states apply a so-called convenience vs. necessity test. If they determine that working from home is a matter of convenience for you rather than a necessity for your employer, "you will owe taxes to those states on the income you earn during your work-from-home days," said Cosimo Zavaglia, an associate at the law firm Morgan Lewis. Related: 3 reasons your boss doesn't want you to work from home and why she's wrong New York is toughest in this regard, according to Roxanne Bland, a contributing editor to State Tax Notes. For instance, to contend that working from home is a necessity, you must prove you could not possibly do your work at your employer's office or that your employer requires you to work from home as a condition of employment. You also may need to prove the employer has a business purpose to have an office exactly where you live or that you regularly hold business meetings at your home office and never use it for personal reasons. The list goes on. "Very few telecommuters would meet this standard. Thus, New York's convenience of the employer test will likely result in double taxation of a telecommuter's income," Bland wrote in Tax Notes. Related: The business traveler tax threat That's because your resident state may also choose to tax the income generated by your working from home. Fortunately, many states give you a tax credit for any taxes you pay to another jurisdiction. So effectively you end up only paying income tax to one state when all is said and done, although you still have to file two state tax returns. But not all states are so generous. Connecticut, for instance, only gives residents a credit for taxes paid to another state for income earned in that other state. It won't give you a credit for money you earned working from your living room in Fairfield. So if you telecommute from Connecticut to an employer based in New York you'll end up being double taxed on the portion of your income earned from home. California has different rules. It taxes its residents on all income, regardless of where it's earned. So if you live in California and telecommute to an employer based in New York, you could be double taxed on at least a portion of your income as well. When you'll simply pay more More common than double taxation is the risk of paying more tax than you otherwise would if you simply lived and worked in the same state. If you telecommute from Florida — which has no state income tax — but work for an employer in a state with an income tax, you'll likely end up paying that on some or all of your income. Or if you work for a company in a state with a higher income tax than your home state, you'll end up paying the higher of the two amounts, according to Zavaglia. That's because your home state will only give you a tax credit up to the tax you'd owe if you earned all your income in-state. He added that "this increase in total taxes is even more of an overall concern now that state and local taxes in excess of $10,000 are no longer deductible at the federal level."
Time for the easiest game of “if you loved this movie, read this book” ever: If you loved “The Shape of Water,” a movie about fish sex, you should definitely read The Pisces by Melissa Broder, a book about fish sex. The cover literally shows a woman in an amorous clinch with a fish; the novel actually tells the story of a woman who has a torrid love affair with a merman. Now, one fish-fucking opus in the space of a year might be a blip. Two seems very much like a trend. (We might even call it three, considering last summer’s Made for Love by Alissa Nutting, in which a male romance scammer, after a fantastical sea-bathing accident, becomes exclusively attracted to dolphins. Though, to be clear, dolphins are not fish.) So what’s going on here? One can never discount the ongoing power of “The Little Mermaid” in the American cultural imagination, sure. Who among us could claim to be immune to the charms of Ariel and/or her buff dad, King Triton? Plus, the past five years have seen the release of not one, but two documentaries about humans who had sexual relationships with dolphins back in the ’60s and ’70s, perhaps reintroducing the idea of aquatic sex with nonhumans into artists’ minds. But The Pisces and Guillermo del Toro’s Oscar-winning “The Shape of Water” also seem to have arrived during an inflection point for heterosexual relations, as some straight women have thrown their hands up in despair at the prospect of dealing with straight men. These men, who grope us and talk down to us and consistently fail to clean the bathroom ― we’re supposed to make lives with them? Let them touch us? Women woke up one day to find that their husbands voted for Donald Trump and their sons have been shitposting on incel boards. Even before we heard the claims about Harvey Weinstein’s history of sexual harassment and assault and the ensuing avalanche of other horrifying Me Too allegations, we heard about our president grabbing women “by the pussy,” Bill Cosby feeding women roofies, and R. Kelly allegedly sexually exploiting young girls. So many straight men, we have been forced to accept, are bad to and for us. Why would we take the enormous risk of loving one of them? And yet, straight women do have desires. Cutting men out of our lives isn’t a simple proposition. As satisfying as the concept of going “Lysistrata” until men get their house in order might be, that strategy also requires straight women to deny their sexual urges. The handsome prince (or film star, or cowboy, or doctor) of our imagination has been exposed as a dangerous fraud, but we still need some form of romantic hope and sexual release. One seductive yet impossible fantasy might be the romantic attention of a man who lacks the exhausting baggage of male entitlement. To find such a fantastical being, women ― in fiction, at least ― have turned to the sea. Fox Searchlight Doug Jones as the sea monster in “The Shape of Water.” Lucy, the protagonist of The Pisces, is newly single, running out of time to finish her dissertation, and spiraling out of control. (That Lucy’s dissertation focuses on Sappho, whose poetry explores eroticism of a non-heteronormative, female-centered bent, is in itself telling.) Not long after breaking up with her longtime boyfriend, she becomes obsessed with getting him back; unfortunately, he’s quickly gotten another girlfriend. Her ensuing freakout features Ambien, doughnuts and an unprovoked physical assault on her ex. So she takes two steps to address the situation: She heads to Venice Beach for the summer to dog-sit for her sister and brother-in-law, and she starts attending group therapy for love and sex addiction. (The latter step is court-mandated, due to the aforementioned violence.) Despite the therapy sessions, Lucy can’t stop searching for male attention to restore her sense of desirability and worth. Before each encounter with a prospect, she feels buoyant and eager, but again and again, she’s left sexually and emotionally unfulfilled, in part because the men don’t much care whether she’s enjoying herself. One man she meets on an app ― a hot younger dude in an open relationship ― convinces her to have sex with him in the lobby bathroom of an upscale hotel. It’s quick and mediocre. She doesn’t come. Afterward, he leaves without telling her, stranding her alone at the hotel bar. Lucy thought the encounter would be something different, that it would make her feel deliriously sexy and desired. She tries not to let herself feel sad about how transparently he was using her to fulfill his fantasy while her own went entirely ignored. What she wants is for even this one-time fling to care desperately about making her come, for his world to narrow around her pleasure, even for just a few minutes. “I knew that what I wanted was something that couldn’t exist,” she thinks. “But that didn’t mean it wasn’t something I wanted.” When she begins to fall for Theo, a tautly handsome swimmer she keeps seeing in the ocean near her sister’s beachside home, it seems like she may have found the something that couldn’t exist. Theo looks decades younger than her, but he is fascinated by her. He seeks her out, pulling up by the rocks at the edge of the beach to talk with her night after night. He wants to kiss her, then give her oral sex for hours under the stars. Soon, she learns that there’s a reason he initially stayed submerged from the waist down during their encounters: He’s what we might call a merman, and instead of legs he has a scaly tail. Like the creature in “The Shape of Water,” Theo seems to be an exception to the rule of toxic straight maleness. Where other men hurt, threaten and betray, these unhuman beings pleasure, console and conspire with women. One seductive yet impossible fantasy might be the romantic attention of a man who lacks the exhausting baggage of male entitlement.
No one wears fascinators and fancy hats quite like the British royal family. Ornamental headwear has topped off everyone from Queen Elizabeth II to Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, to Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, as well as Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie and, of course, royal-to-be Meghan Markle. On May 19, Markle will marry Prince Harry in St. George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle, and as with Prince William’s 2011 wedding to the former Kate Middleton, there are bound to be plenty of fascinator-and-hat-adorned guests in attendance. We took a deep dive into the world of fantastical headpieces to find out exactly why they’ve become the accessory of choice for royal weddings and where, exactly, they originated. And just to clarify, while both hats and fascinators can be decorative, they aren’t technically the same thing. Hats typically cover the top of the head and have brims and bases, while fascinators are essentially bits of ribbon and fluff that affix to the head with some sort of comb or clip. Hats also have functional aspects (like shielding your face from the sun) while fascinators are mainly decorative. According to William Hanson, etiquette tutor at The English Manner who spoke to Town & Country, it is considered proper etiquette for ladies to wear hats to royal weddings. “Up until the 1950s ladies were very seldom seen without a hat as it was not considered ‘the thing’ for ladies to show their hair in public,” Diana Mather, a senior tutor at The English Manner, told the BBC. But she added, “all that has changed and hats are now reserved for more formal occasions.” Aside from that, hats and fascinators are just part of British culture. “When it comes to a special occasion in British society, the special occasion is not complete without a hat,” Hilary Alexander, former fashion director at the Daily Telegraph told ABC News back in 2011, ahead of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge’s nuptials. “There has to be a hat. It’s part of the social fabric,” Alexander said. Marie Galvin of Marie Galvin Fine Millinery, an Irish-born hatmaker based in Boston, recently told Brides that some women choose to wear fascinators to highlight their wealth and social status or to follow British tradition, while others find them to be a lighthearted means of self-expression. Galvin also noted there’s an unspoken competition for the best fascinator or headpiece, which adds an element of fun. So where do fascinators come from? Before decorative fascinators became the go-to accessory for high society, the word described something entirely different. In fashion history, “fascinator” originally referred to a lace or crocheted head shawl that draped down the back of the head.
Baby Boomers: Five Reasons They Are Our Worst Generation Ten thousand are retiring every day. Good riddance. Wow, so it looks like we have a budget deal in Washington. A debt ceiling and spending crisis has been averted. It’s good news. But let’s all calm down. It’s only temporary. The agreement does not address the long-term fiscal problems we have. Problems that were mostly created by none other than the “baby boomer” generation. Yeah, you know who you are. You’re tanned and healthy and living way past average life expectancy. You’ve got a defined benefit pension plan from a large company or government that was created years ago when people didn’t understand how horribly these plans can go wrong and now can’t afford to meet its liabilities, but you don’t care as long as you get your check which you don’t really need anyway. And your social security check. And your Medicare reimbursement check. You once hated the government. You smoked pot and protested against Vietnam and President Nixon. That was a long, long time ago. Life has been good for you. You’re a baby boomer. You were born between 1946 and the early 1960’s. You had Woodstock and the Stones in the ’60s, discos and coke in the ’70s, Wall Street in the ’80s, Bill Clinton in the ’90s and now you’re retiring to Arizona and Florida on the backs of your stressed-out kids whose own children stay at home with them into their 20s because they have no jobs. Tom Brokaw once wrote a book about the greatest generation, those brave people who survived the depression and fought in World War II. Unfortunately that great generation spawned a generation of narcissists: the baby boomers. The boomers have created liabilities that will take generations to pay off. Our national debt is now at around $17 trillion, larger for the first time in recent history than the size of our entire economy. And it’s projected to continue to significantly grow over the next few decades unless something dramatic is done to reduce it. Boomers don’t like to talk about fiscal responsibility or living within their means. They like their credit cards and government secured mortgages on overvalued properties. They enjoy their malls and their cars and their houses and as long as someone’s willing to lend them the money to buy this stuff they don’t seem to care much about how it will be one day paid. They still represent an enormous voting block and have no intention to have this lifestyle threatened. This is the real reason Washington can’t create a long-term deficit reduction plan. The boomers love their safety nets. These safety nets were created over the past few decades by boomers and for boomers, with little regard to the future. One of the major reasons our national debt is so high is because 40 percent of our government’s spending goes to some type of insurance: social insurance, retirement, health benefits, Medicare, Medicaid, etc. These systems are bankrupt. But they’re needed to pay for the boomers’ healthcare and pension plans. People that were born after 1965 are working hard to make sure that the boomer generation gets their retirement and disability paid for by the government. But it’s still not enough. So our government has to borrow and print money. And our debts balloon. Who will pay these debts? Ah, who cares says the boomers. Not my problem. They are the source of one of the biggest problems with Obamacare. Whether you support the Affordable Care Act or not (and I think there are lots of great things about it), one undeniable fact is that the cost of this new system is being put squarely on the shoulders of the young. People in their 20s need less health care than the boomers in their 60s and 70s. This is not only because younger people today have healthier lifestyles but because many boomers spent most of their young lives smoking, drinking sugary sodas and engaging in risky, unprotected sex. There are 34 million mostly young and uninsured people who will be required on January 1, 2014, to pay for health insurance just so the boomers can take advantage of the added benefits that health insurance companies have to now legally provide. They are, thank God, the last reminders of our racist, homophobic, sexist past. When you look at those “white only” diners and drinking fountains in those photos from the 1960s you just can’t believe it. Or how women were treated. And gays. But many of our beloved boomers were teenagers back then, living with parents who watched Ozzie and Harriet and were raised to believe that people who weren’t white weren’t to be trusted, women were meant to stay at home, and gays were sinners. Over time, these attitudes have changed, mainly because people in their 20s and 30s are smarter, better educated and more open-minded. Unfortunately, and although we now have a black President, the last remnants of the boomer generation who still wield power in their churches and companies are doing their best to keep women out of the corporate suite, protest against gay marriage and fight immigration reform. We’re scrambling to fix the environment because of their excesses. For years, and despite warnings, the boomers refused to recycle and ran companies that spewed ozone-destroying chemicals into the air. There are countless plots of land that are unusable because of chemicals and pesticides dumped by this generation. I’m no environmentalist, but even I have to shake my head at the destruction laid upon the planet over the past 40 years alone: decimated forests, extinct species, smog filled skies, islands of plastic floating in the ocean. Only recently are steps being taken by younger generations to attempt to reverse this trend. The good news is that the baby boomer generation is quickly getting older. Ten thousand boomers are retiring each day. We can’t ship them all off to an island, unfortunately. But I’m optimistic that the next generation of leaders will not make the same mistakes. Governments will take care of people who are truly needy — not just because they turned 65 and have a car payment — and this will help fix our deficit problems. Racism will continue to decline as the world becomes smaller and more social. Our environment will improve because kids in elementary school are being taught to care about the planet. Ultimately, these generations will fix the problems that the boomers created. And we can soon bid farewell to that horrible generation. Follow @GeneMarks on Twitter.
(CNN) Any diplomatic agreement in which North Korea agreed to give up its nuclear weapons could take as long as 10 years to implement, according to a new analysis from former US officials. The assessment, released Monday by experts at Stanford University , comes as the White House is trying to verify how committed North Korea is to denuclearization and how it could be achieved, ahead of a potential summit between the two leaders. Siegfried Hecker, a respected nuclear scientist who has previously traveled to North Korea to inspect its nuclear site, co-authored the roadmap with Robert Carlin, a Korea analyst who spent years at the CIA and State Department, and Elliot Serbin, Hecker's research assistant. The trio identified 22 specific programs or activities -- such as the country's nuclear weapons stockpile, its missile arsenal or its nuclear reprocessing facilities -- that US negotiators need to address with North Korea. Halting or suspending many of these will likely take less than a year, the authors estimate, but eliminating or setting limits on them will take six to 10 years. Last week, US President Donald Trump abruptly canceled his planned Singapore summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, in part due to concerns on whether Pyongyang was willing to agree to what's known as CVID -- complete, verifiable and irreversible dismantlement of the country's nuclear program.
In 2014, Facebook bought Jan Koum’s messaging app and turned him into a billionaire overnight. Now the WhatsApp co-founder is leaving his company, noting in a post on Facebook that it’s “time to move on.” Though Koum didn’t mention it in his public statement on Monday afternoon, The Washington Post reported that he was unhappy with Facebook’s attempts to weaken WhatsApp’s encryption and its desire to collect and use more WhatsApp users’ personal data. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg mentioned encryption in a post thanking Koum for his work. “I’m grateful for everything you’d done to help connect the world,” Zuckerberg wrote, “and for everything you’ve taught me, including about encryption and its ability to take power from centralized systems and put it back in peoples’ hands. Those values will always be at the heart of WhatsApp.” Koum’s co-founder, Brian Acton, left WhatsApp in late 2017 and has been a vocal opponent of Facebook ever since. In March, Acton encouraged his Twitter followers to delete their Facebook accounts. “It is time,” he said.
A new poll suggests half of Ontario's decided voters will cast their ballots in next week's provincial election not to support their favoured party, but to block the one they oppose. The Gist: The NDP is maintaining its lead in polls, but its voter base isn't the most "committed" The PCs are seen as the party that will form the best government The campaign hasn't been kind to the Liberals. Surprise! The data from the Angus Reid Institute's survey, released on Wednesday, paints a picture of an electorate that's not exactly enthralled by its options. Fifty-two per cent of voters who indicated they were voting for the NDP, for example, said they were doing so not in support of the party and its ideas, but because they disliked the other choices "even more." Forty-nine per cent of PC voters and 42 per cent of Liberal voters had a similar response. A key factor behind this strategic voting — and perhaps an ominous sign for the governing Liberals — is an enormous appetite for change from voters, according to the polling firm. A whopping 70 per cent of respondents said they wanted a different government in Ontario and that the Liberal party and its leader, Kathleen Wynne, should be shown the door. Just 14 per cent said the party should be re-elected. The Liberals have been in power since 2003. This wave of loathing for the premier hasn't come out of nowhere, of course. Wynne has been named Canada's least popular premier in the Angus Reid Institute's surveys since September 2016. Ontario Liberal Leader Kathleen Wynne, left to right, Ontario Progressive Conservative Leader Doug Ford and Ontario NDP Leader Andrea Horwath participate during the third and final televised debate of the provincial election campaign in Toronto on May 27, 2018. The election campaign doesn't seem to have made a dent in that wall of bad rep, according to the firm. Respondents were more likely to say their opinion of Wynne and PC leader Doug Ford worsened than improved over the past few weeks. NDP Leader Andrea Horwath, meanwhile, has seen the opposite effect from the campaign. Her "momentum score" — the percentage of voters whose opinion of the leader worsened subtracted from the percentage of those who say it's improved — came in at 13 per cent, the only one of the three leaders that's positive. In another question, the poll asked respondents for their opinion of each leader. Again, Horwath came in first place with 60 per cent saying they had a favourable view of the NDP leader. Thirty per cent and 34 per cent said the same for Ford and Wynne, respectively. Horwath was also seen as the leader who would make the best premier by 34 per cent of respondents, while 25 per cent said the same for Ford and 14 per cent chose Wynne. Overall, the Angus Reid Institute's poll put the NDP at 39 per cent support with the PCs at 37 per cent. This mirrors several polls commissioned in the last two weeks of the campaign that have shown the NDP either leading or virtually tied with the PCs. This rapid rise in support for Horwath's NDP has come at the heavy expense of Wynne's Liberals, according to the poll. A shocking 45 per cent of respondents who opted for the Liberals in 2014 now say they want to go for Team Orange. Ten per cent of voters from that group say they are opting for the PCs this time. Another sign of potential good news for Horwath's NDP is that just 20 per cent of respondents said they would "never" vote for her party. That's compared to 41 and 40 per cent of voters who said they would not consider voting for the Liberals, and PCs, respectively. But it's not all good news for the NDP. When asked which party would form the best government, 33 per cent of the poll's respondents opted for the PCs. Their voter base also seems more committed, according to the polling firm. Fifty-five per cent of decided PC voters, for example, were "absolutely certain" they would cast their ballot in favour of Ford's party. Twenty-seven per cent and 16 per cent had similar attitudes for the NDP and the Liberals, respectively. Ontario voters head to the polls on June 7. The poll was conducted online between May 27–29 among 773 Canadian adults in Ontario. For comparison purposes, a probability sample of this size would carry a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points, 19 times out of 20.
oksix via Getty Images Last year, I celebrated Mother’s Day with my two sweet girls, Hannah and Gretchen, then ages 4 years and 23 months. I was also awaiting the arrival of my unborn son, Caleb, whom I had been carrying for about 33 weeks at the time. This Mother’s Day will be very different. My two sweet girls are a year older, but my son is not. He died in my womb the very next month. When I was 37 weeks pregnant, my placenta completely detached from my uterus, killing Caleb within minutes. What happened to me is called a placental abruption. I had no risk factors. My placental abruption was “invisible.” I neither bled nor had intense pain, the usual symptoms. The only reason we went to the hospital that night of Father’s Day 2017 was because I awoke around midnight and felt uncomfortable. Caleb also wasn’t moving, but that did not worry me too much because I had done a successful kick count three hours before and he usually didn’t move too much at night. Looking back now, the discomfort felt like when Caleb would push his butt hard on my ribs (which he did often), but it was constant. I knew something was off, but I never thought he could have died. I was two weeks away from our scheduled delivery. We got to the labor and delivery unit at the hospital and eventually were put in a room. Coincidentally, it was the same room I had been in before delivering my first daughter. I had also been in it when we had a scare when pregnant with my second daughter ― pain from a bladder infection, pain that was much worse than what I was experiencing with Caleb. We weren’t in the room for long before the nurse put the monitor on my belly and couldn’t find Caleb’s heartbeat. The nurse called in another nurse to help, and she couldn’t find it either. We had some hope when they ordered an ultrasound, but the technician was clearly not in a rush. I remember asking my main nurse if the inability to find a heartbeat ever turned out OK. Her long pause before “maybe he’s just turned funny” told me the answer was no. At one point, while still waiting for the ultrasound, I started to scream and cry, prompting all of the nurses to come back in the room. The ultrasound finally happened, although the technician and nurses still wouldn’t tell us anything. Finally, around 5 a.m., the on-call doctor officially informed us that my placenta had detached and Caleb had died. Because I was bleeding internally, I had to deliver Caleb immediately and without an epidural. That was a first for me. Soon after he delivered the news, my water broke, also the first time that ever happened naturally, and the contractions started. My regular doctor arrived and took over. She drugged me, but my body still knew how to deliver a baby. When asked how many children I have, I’m rarely happy with how I answer. I usually don’t want to bring up Caleb to a stranger, but I also don’t want to negate his existence. Caleb Marcus Lens was born on June 19, 2017, at 6:09 a.m. He was 5 pounds, 15.8 ounces, and 19.25 inches long. He was our least hairy child; he had less hair on his head than both of our daughters did. He looked just like my younger daughter. The nurses wrapped him in a blanket and were very supportive of our spending time with him. It was mid- or later afternoon when we gave him our last kisses and said goodbye. We had a beautiful funeral for him a week later. It’s been over 10 months since his birth and death, and I’m still adjusting to this new normal ― of being a parent to a child who died. Now I have to figure out how to celebrate Mother’s Day without one of my children. We recently moved to a new city, a city where no one saw me very pregnant and then wondered why I wasn’t carrying a baby car seat. Because of our young, living children, we encounter other families all the time. When asked how many children I have, I’m rarely happy with how I answer. I usually don’t want to bring up Caleb to a stranger, but I also don’t want to negate his existence. I can pretty easily say we “have two girls at home,” which doesn’t explicitly exclude Caleb. But why don’t I also say, “We also have a son who passed away”? In class a few weeks ago, I told one of my students that it’s easy for me to remember her name because she has the same name as my older daughter. Why didn’t I say the same for the student named Caleb? I want to share that I also have a son — a sweet, beautiful boy who I loved to talk and sing to and who used to kick me excitedly when he heard his sisters’ voices. But, I also don’t want to have to comfort the person I’m telling about Caleb, the person who will inevitably apologize for inadvertently asking a question relevant to my dead son. I’m also afraid to encounter any dismissive comments that may imply that my loss is somehow less devastating because Caleb died before, instead of after, birth. Public acknowledgment is very related to Mother’s Day for me. On Mother’s Day, at the church we used to attend in Texas, the priest would ask mothers to come up to the front of church based on how many children they have. I had been attending that Mass every year I was lucky enough to be a mom. I went up to the front when I had one child (with sadness the year we were struggling to conceive our second), and then when I had two children. Of all places, a Catholic church, I should feel comfortable going up to the front this year when he asked for mothers of three children. I would like to think that I would have done so. But what I really feel is relief that I won’t be there this year. At the same time that I’m having difficulty adjusting to my new normal, I also realize how extremely lucky I am. I do have two living children to hug and kiss on Mother’s Day. The need to try to make their lives as normal as possible despite their baby brother’s death helped us get through those first weeks and months, even though we also had to help them begin to process. Caleb’s death has given me extreme gratitude for my girls; I fully realize that I have it better than many. It took some time, but I am now able to look back on the day of Caleb’s birth and see it differently. It was not just the saddest day of my life, it was also one of the three happiest days.
Nyle DiMarco, a model and deaf activist, is shedding a little light on a big problem with inclusion. And he used the Marvel Cinematic Universe as a jumping off point. In April, the website Mic published an article about how MCU has a diversity problem. The article discusses at length how Marvel tends to put white men at the forefront of its stories. But like many other articles and conversations about diversity, it neglects to mention people with disabilities. So when the story popped up in DiMarco’s feed, the extremely vocal disability advocate wasn’t going to let that significant detail slide. “Disability is also a part of diversity, @mic,” DiMarco, the winner of Cycle 22 of “America’s Next Top Model” and Season 22 of “Dancing With the Stars,” wrote on Twitter. “HawkEye is actually Deaf and MARVEL Cinematic Universe made the character hearing.”
(CNN) As any teacher or parent knows, occasionally a public figure says something that has "teachable moment" written all over it. US Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Alabama, provided such an opportunity last week. At a hearing held by the House Science, Space and Technology Committee to explore how technology could be used to mitigate effects due to climate change, he made an unorthodox assertion connecting sea level rise and erosion. Brooks said , "Every time you have that soil or rock or whatever it is that is deposited into the seas, that forces the sea levels to rise, because now you have less space in those oceans, because the bottom is moving up." In other words, Brooks argued that the rise in sea level could be caused by rocks falling off cliffs or mud from the Earth's surface being washed into the sea. The debate over climate change and global sea level change is a familiar one, with political voices often being louder than scientific ones. In my not very humble opinion, this is a shame, as this is clearly a question with a quantifiable answer. The planet is warming, or it is not. Sea level is rising or falling, or it is staying the same. Answering questions like these is what science does. If a scientific consensus arises (as it has), then deciding what to do is a political question. Policy makers need to consider a broad range of issues in addition to the scientific input. These issues include human impact, economics, military considerations, and global and geopolitical concerns, and then they need to present proposed solutions that should be subjected to vigorous public debate. But the question starts with science and the best possible data. So, returning to Brooks' claim -- it's true that rocks fall from cliffs, silt is deposited by rivers and all manners of terrestrial debris enter the oceans and fall to the bottom. But could this be the cause? On the face of it, this isn't so completely outrageous. After all, anyone who has taken a bath has seen the water level in the bathtub rise when they got into the tub. It's an idea that needs to be evaluated to see if it hangs together. But it turns out to not be the explanation. How do I know? I did the math. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a government agency tasked with monitoring the air and the seas, notes that the global sea level is rising at an average rate of about an eighth of an inch (3.3 mm) per year. In very rough numbers, the surface of the Earth is 200 million square miles. About 71% of the Earth is covered by water, so a global rise of sea level of an eighth of an inch is the same volume as a cube about 6 miles on a side. To give a sense of scale, the US has an area of about 4 million square miles. To get the necessary volume, you'd have to scrape off the top four inches of soil from the entire country. That's a lot of dirt. And the world's oceans don't experience anywhere near that kind of sedimentation. The amount of sediment carried to the sea by the world's rivers is about 14 billion tons a year, which works out to be about 1.2 cubic miles (five cubic kilometers) of rock, or 0.5 percent of the amount required to raise the sea level by the observed eighth of an inch (3.3 mm) per year. So, rocks falling into the ocean and silt from rivers isn't the cause of sea level rise. Now this isn't intended to shame anyone who believed that sea level rise and sedimentation were somehow connected. It's a reasonable conjecture and worth evaluating. But it's not true. That's the beauty of using science. You can test ideas and see if they're right or not. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook If sea level rise isn't caused by sedimentation, what is the cause? Well, there's the oft-mentioned issue of ice melt from Antarctica and Greenland, but there is another unappreciated effect, which is the fact that things get bigger when they warm up. As the temperature of the ocean's water increases, water literally expands. One third of sea level rise is just due to this expansion. Knowing the real cause will guide the public debate in the right direction. The international conversation about the Earth's climate will continue in the years ahead, with many voices and many agendas -- and the outcome is far from certain. But it is very important that the scientific community speak up when incorrect statements are made. We can all hope that when policy makers are informed of and then embrace the facts, that they will eventually make the right decisions.
As a senior at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton business school, Anjali Sud applied to dozens of jobs in investment banking. She didn't get any. "I got rejected from every single big investment bank," Sud, now the CEO of Vimeo, told CNNMoney. "I remember leaving one of the interviews, and they told me that they didn't think I had the personality to be a banker," she recalled. "That definitely was a low point." "It was the first time that I really felt like this was something I wanted to do and I couldn't do it," the 34-year-old recalled. But Sud had faced challenges before. As a young teen in Flint, Michigan, she applied on a whim to a prestigious boarding school in Massachusetts. She was accepted, and left home at the age of 14. At first, Sud had a difficult time in the academically rigorous environment. "I failed a lot in my first year," she said. "I had to work really hard to catch up. I think that was a wake-up call that most people probably don't get at 14." Despite the negative feedback, Sud didn't give up on her search for a job in investment banking. Ultimately she took a job as the first analyst for a small firm, Sagent Advisors. At Sagent, Sud learned the skills that would help her succeed later on. "I found myself doing things that most investment bankers don't get to do," she said. Sud hired and trained new analysts, helped the fledgling company expand internationally and worked on partnerships. The time at Sagent "taught me that sometimes the non-traditional path can be the best one," she said. Related: She was too short to play Goofy. Then she invented Spanx. Now she's a billionaire A winding road After spending a few years at Sagent, Sud started exploring other options. She earned a degree from Harvard Business School and held a few positions at Amazon. "I have gotten advice to not move around so much ... and to stay focused in one path," Sud said. "I've gotten advice to stay in my lane and not be so impatient about my own career growth." But Sud ignored that advice. "I wanted a diversity of experiences because I thought it would make me a better leader and a better decision maker," she said. The approach paid off. Sud went from Amazon (AMZN) to Vimeo, where she started out as a leader in the global marketing department. During her time there, she made the case that the business should focus its attention on content creators. "That was a really valuable business opportunity, and an area no one was really focused on," Sud said. She made the case to Vimeo, and "because of that, I was given an opportunity to run the company." She credits her speedy rise to that ability to carve out her own path. "You can create your own opportunities," she said. "It's sometimes really smart to look where others aren't looking." Related: Before she became a CEO, Sarah Robb O'Hagan was fired and laid off Don't sweat it Looking back, Sud wishes she had worried less about having a linear career path. "The advice I wish I had known is 'don't sweat it so much,'" she said. Sud values the guidance she received from her parents. "Growing up, my dad would always tell me and my siblings to pursue the world," she said. "He taught us to never make decisions based on your fears, always make them based on your strengths." That doesn't mean avoiding failure. "Failing early and often can be really empowering," she said. "Failure is essential to success." Those early failures helped her ignore the people who told her to ask for less. "I probably don't look like, or seem like, a CEO of a company of the size of Vimeo," she said. "Don't let people tell you you're not a good fit for things."
Hafþór Júlíus Björnsson, who plays Gregor Clegane aka “The Mountain” in “Game of Thrones,” won the World’s Strongest Man competition on Sunday in the Philippines. The 29-year-old, who goes by “Thor,” has been participating in the competition for years, but has never come in first place. This year, Björnsson took on events like the Giant Dumbbell Press, the Atlas Stones, the Car Deadlift, the Truck Pull and the Loading Race.
SEATTLE ― The 9:30 a.m. meeting of the Seattle City Council’s Finance and Neighborhoods Committee ― the most boring name imaginable ― was overflowing. People in the crowd held up signs: “Don’t vote our jobs away” or “Tax the rich.” The committee was taking public comment on the proposed Progressive Tax on Business, a fee on Seattle’s largest corporations to support homeless services. Last week, Amazon — the employer of more than 45,000 Seattleites that is on the hook for an estimated $20 million under the tax — announced it was pausing construction planning on a tower downtown and would consider renting some of its office space to other companies if the fee goes through. Now the mayor and City Council have to decide whether to take this threat seriously. About a third of the attendees at Wednesday’s hearing were wearing construction vests. One of them told committee members that if the tax passes, workers will have to go home, look their kids in the eye and tell them Daddy doesn’t have a job anymore. Another called a member of the City Council a communist (she’s actually a socialist) and said she “seems to be getting paid by the residents of Seattle to throw temper tantrums.” The applause in the room was deafening. But the fight is about more than just one company or one policy. It is about the growing challenge of running American cities and all the ways companies make it even harder. Seattle faces an impossible choice: Either raise revenue from employers and risk driving them away, or keep levying taxes on voters and risk a backlash that could exacerbate the very problem it’s trying to solve. Whatever happens here, it will be a template for the rest of the country. Don’t Call It An ‘Amazon Tax’ The details of Seattle’s proposed tax are crucial to understanding why Amazon hates it so much. Under the current proposal, the city will charge large companies 26 cents for every hour their employees work. That’s about $520 per worker every year. Though the tax will apply only to companies with more than $20 million in revenue per year, or about 3 percent of Seattle businesses, Amazon employs about 145,000 people. And that structure is only temporary. The tax is flat for the first three years: The same fee is levied on wages whether an employee earns $31,200 a year (the minimum wage here) or more than $100,000 (what many Amazon corporate employees make). But in 2021, the flat fee becomes a payroll tax. Large companies will have to pay 0.7 percent of their employees’ wages — that’s $220 per year for minimum wage workers and more than $700 for Amazon’s corporate employees. It’s the second part, bigger taxes for bigger incomes, that seems to worry the companies here. A few days after Amazon’s announcement, the CEO of Seattle-based Zillow made the same taking-our-ball-and-going-home threat, calling the tax “misguided and too blunt of an instrument.” But you can’t talk about where the money comes from without talking about where it’s going. Homelessness is an emergency in Seattle. Literally. In 2015, the mayor issued an emergency proclamation over the sheer number of people sleeping outside and in their cars and overflowing from shelters. At last count, Seattle had 11,643 homeless people, and its home of King County had the third-highest homeless concentration in the nation. A study last year by Zillow estimated that every 5 percent rise in Seattle rents pushed 258 more people into homelessness. Rents here rose 13.5 percent last year alone. The proposed tax would raise about $75 million per year to help address this crisis, bringing the city’s total homelessness budget up to $200 million. Three-quarters of the revenue would go toward building affordable housing and a smaller chunk would go toward direct, immediate services — things like temporary shelters, “hygiene centers” and shelter beds. “This isn’t about Amazon,” said Lisa Herbold, a Seattle City Council member and a co-sponsor of the tax. “It’s about the humanitarian crisis in our city.” Amazon vs. Taxes It’s clear that Seattle’s tax is going to piss off Amazon. The question is, how much? Everything the company has said so far has been pretty tepid. Amazon has not, in fact, stopped construction on any downtown towers. It has stopped planning future construction, a much different (and less costly) decision. Similarly, the company announced it was exploring the option of subleasing some floors in one of its already-under-construction office buildings. That doesn’t mean Amazon is crying wolf, but it does mean there’s still a lot of uncertainty about the company’s response. Even if members of the Seattle City Council approve the tax — hell, even if they triple it — Washington is still a relatively cheap place to do business. It has no income tax (which is effectively a pay raise for Amazon employees who move here from elsewhere), no capital gains tax and no corporate income tax. The city even passed an almost identical tax on employees, albeit at a much lower rate, in 2006 before repealing it during the recession. Then there’s the public relations aspect to consider. Though it will grow after 2021, Amazon’s tax bill under the law will be pocket change compared with its $1.6 billion in profits last quarter alone. Moving employees, halting construction and reversing course all have costs, too. Plus, does a not-super-popular corporate behemoth really want to pull thousands of jobs out of a city over being asked to fund services for the homeless? While Amazon is less reputation-conscious and less likely to be harmed by a boycott than a lot of companies are, its executives must know that throwing a hissy fit over this law would create some backlash. Amazon could still pull jobs out of Seattle anyway. The only thing CEO Jeff Bezos loves more than expanding his company is hating taxes. When a handful of states tried passing laws requiring internet retailers to collect sales tax in 2012, his vice president for global public policy called the efforts “unconstitutional.” A few years ago, Amazon halted plans to build a warehouse in South Carolina when local lawmakers wouldn’t grant an exemption to the state sales tax. Bezos even reportedly considered incorporating his company on a Native American reservation to avoid taxes. Just because leaving Seattle over a small tax increase would be bananas doesn’t mean it won’t happen. This Proposal Is A Stopgap In the past five years, Seattle has seen unprecedented growth, much of it driven by Amazon and other large companies. That has put unbearable strain on the housing market, schools and infrastructure. As the bill for services has grown, the way the city pays for them has become increasingly unjust. Washington has the most regressive tax structure in the country. The poorest 20 percent of residents pay an average of 16.8 percent of their income in state taxes. The richest 1 percent pay just 2.4 percent. This means low-income people are effectively paying for the city’s growth. And yet, nearly every route to fixing Seattle’s tax and revenue mess is blocked. The most obvious fix, an income tax, is illegal under the state constitution (or at least the way the state Supreme Court interpreted the constitution in 1951). Last year, the City Council passed a ”high earners tax,” but a lawsuit preventing its implementation was filed about 10 minutes later. Alongside the (high and regressive) sales tax, Seattle relies heavily on property taxes. But, thanks to a 2001 ballot initiative, those revenues aren’t allowed to grow by more than 1 percent per year. Everything the city needs (libraries, fire stations, schools) has to be individually approved by voters. Though Seattle’s property taxes are below average compared with other cities, the constant levies and add-ons contribute to a sense among Seattleites that the city is squeezing them for more money every year without keeping up its end of the bargain.
(CNN) The following contains spoilers about "The Americans" series finale. "The Americans" resisted any temptation to do a "cute" finale, to somehow link this Cold War-era drama to the Russian controversies of today. The result was an understated but gripping extended episode, one that brought home the price paid by these Soviet spies hiding in plain view, while testing the bonds of loyalty and friendship. The FX series has always seemed to come with a natural expiration date. The fall of the Berlin Wall loomed over the activities of these Reagan-era Russians, Philip (Matthew Rhys) and Elizabeth Jennings (Keri Russell), whose two children grew up unaware of their origins, before daughter Paige (Holly Taylor) was gradually brought into the family business. Moreover, a collision appeared inevitable between the couple and their neighbor Stan Beeman (Noah Emmerich), a generally capable FBI agent who had managed to remain oblivious, until the closing flurry of episodes, to the espionage transpiring right under his nose. Series creators Joe Weisberg and Joel Fields paid off on that promise, and then some, in a remarkable tense garage scene in which Stan confronted the trio, expressing understandable feelings of anger, hurt and betrayal. "I would have done anything for you, Philip," he said, before finally choosing to let them go. Read More
BENGALURU –- Muhammed Salih, 26, was admitted to the hospital in Kozhikode, Kerala, on the early morning of May 17 with fever, high blood pressure and acute confusion. His blood pressure increased, he was unable to breathe on his own and doctors at the critical care unit at Baby Memorial Hospital (BMH) had to intubate him. Just 12 days earlier, Salih's 23-year-old brother had died with similar symptoms. Doctors suspected this was either a case of poisoning or a deadly, infectious virus that rapidly claims it hosts. They questioned Salih's family and learned that his aunt Mariyam also had high fever. She, too, was admitted to BMH, and by evening, both Salih and Mariyam had deteriorated. Within 24 hours, Salih suffered a fatal cardiac arrest due to inflammation of his heart; Mariyam died the next day. "Immediately, we got on alert that we are dealing with some abnormal viral encephalitis; it is not the normal one," said Anoop Kumar AS, the chief of the critical care unit at BMH. Within 48 hours, doctors, state health officials, scientists and the central government had diagnosed the virus as Nipah, a zoonosis or disease that originates in animals and jumps to humans with deadly effect. The state's emergency health system kicked in and the outbreak, for now, appears controlled. The rapid response suggests that India, which is a global hotspot for emerging pandemics, has stepped up surveillance and response to outbreaks, experts say. The last time a large scale Nipah outbreak occurred in India, in Siliguri, West Bengal, in 2001, it took five years to identify the virus. "The previous outbreak took a very long time [to diagnose], but from there, we have walked a long distance, and we are quite happy about that," said G. Arunkumar, head of the Manipal Center for Virus Research, one of India's new virus hunting labs that monitors emerging epidemics. There have been 14 confirmed cases with 11 fatalities. All the cases have been linked to Salih's family, which implies transmission has being curbed, said Arunkumar. "Everybody is linked, there is no unlinked case, that is very satisfying," he said. While media reports suggest the virus may have spread to Mangaluru, these are not confirmed cases of Nipah. Virus Nipah in the cerebrospinal fluid of an infected patient. File photo. ** Nipah had already been reported in India twice before – in 2001 and 2007, in West Bengal. It had also been reported almost every year in Bangladesh and doctors suspected it may have now emerged in Kerala. The virus is a newly discovered member of the paramyxovirus group of old-world viruses that cause less fatal diseases such as mumps and measles. In the past three decades, scientists have identified novel paramyxoviruses that circulate in the animal kingdom and, once in a while, spill over into humans. Bats appear to be major reservoirs. In 1998 and 1999, 265 people in Malaysia, many of them pig farmers with sick animals, became ill with encephalitis. Some 105 of them died. When the virus was isolated, scientists realised it was novel and named it Nipah after the Malaysian village where the first samples were collected. Symptoms begin with fever, headache and confusion. Within a week, the patient enters a deep coma, with high blood pressure. Unlike the old-world paramyxoviruses, Nipah infects a broad range of mammals, from cattle to cats, dogs and humans, and has an extremely high fatality rate of 40 to 70 percent. The virus is highly virulent as it has evolved mechanisms over millions of years to evade the antiviral responses of its host. Symptoms begin with fever, headache and confusion. Within a week, the patient enters a deep coma, with high blood pressure. As the virus makes carbon-copies of itself by hijacking the host's machinery, the person's blood vessels get inflamed and there is widespread damage to the brain, lungs, heart and kidney. Viral proteins aggregate in the brain and block blood flow, and the virus infects neurons, leading to death. As for all viral infections, there is no cure for Nipah. And given the rarity of occurrence of the disease, pharmaceutical companies have not developed a Nipah vaccine. Scientists at Manipal screened Salih's samples for 35 common agents of encephalitis. They probed the genetic material of the virus and found it was Nipah. When Nipah re-emerged in Bangladesh in the 2000s, it was a different beast. It caused respiratory illness and sick people were capable of transmitting it to others. Washing hands and avoiding contact were the best safeguards. Similar features have been noted in the Kerala outbreak. BMH doctors sent Salih's fluid samples to the Manipal Center for Virus Research for analysis. Identifying a mystery virus can be like probing in the dark with just a couple of matches. In this case, doctors knew that multiple members of Salih's family were suffering from encephalitis, or infection of the brain. The co-occurrence within the family was unusual and pointed to one of two possibilities: toxin encephalopathy, caused by exposure to heavy metals, or Nipah. Scientists at Manipal screened Salih's samples for 35 common agents of encephalitis. They probed the genetic material of the virus and found it was Nipah. The findings were confirmed by independent analysis by the National Institute of Virology in Pune. The institute is now undertaking full genome sequencing and isolating the virus in its state-of-the-art Biosafety Level 4 lab. On May 18, Arunkumar of Manipal informed doctors and Kerala officials that they were dealing with a deadly virus with a high mortality rate. Human-to-human transmission is possible, so frontline health care workers should take care, he warned. The notice came too late for Lini Puthussery, a nurse who had taken care of Salih in his hometown of Perambra before his admission to BMH in Kozhikode on May 17. She succumbed to Nipah on May 21, according to media reports. "We have a disaster plan in the city, and the collector called it in," said Fabith Moideen, chief of emergency medicine of BMH. Relatives wearing masks attend the funeral a victim, who lost his battle against the brain-damaging Nipah virus. *** Almost three-fourths of all diseases that afflict humans originate in animals, and a new zoonosis has been emerging or re-emerging every year. SARS, MERS-CoV, Ebola and H5N1 have all sparked fear and cost the global economy tens of billions of dollars. In the early 2000s, a trio of scientists in the U.S. recognized that animal and human health are intricately connected. They advocated for a "One Health" approach that integrates human health, animal health, agriculture and the environment to respond to and avoid outbreaks. Few nations have so far taken a pro-active approach to stopping animal-to-human transmission before they happen, according to various studies. Health systems, including India's, are focused instead on stopping pandemics, through quarantine, drugs and vaccines. The animal health department is collecting samples of rats, bats and other species to find the Nipah reservoir host. Samples are being analyzed by the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal. Some aspects of the approach found takers in India in 2005 following an H5N1 avian flu outbreak. For the first time, animal, environment, wildlife and human health departments coordinated to monitor and develop avian influenza contingency plans. South Asia, and India in particular, is a hotspot for emerging and re-emerging zoonosis due to its tropical forests, high biodiversity, high poverty rate and a large number of people living in close proximity to animals. Since then, the Indian government has been setting up a network of virus detection labs. With help from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, it has set up more Biosafety Level- 3 and 4 labs where scientists can safely study the most dangerous viruses. *** There are still significant unknowns about Kerala's Nipah outbreak. It is likely that Salih got the disease from his brother, Sabith, who died on May 5, but it is unclear how Sabith contracted the disease. In Bangladesh, people fell sick after consuming date palm sap contaminated by pteropid fruit bats, also known as flying foxes. In Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines, humans caught it from infected pigs and horses, which in turn caught the disease from flying foxes. The brothers were cleaning a well that was home to bats, said Anoop Kumar of BMH, but flying foxes typically do not roost in wells. The animal health department is collecting samples of rats, bats and other species to find the Nipah reservoir host. Samples are being analyzed by the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal. "This is a very good example of the One Health approach, where animal and human health and public health, the administration, state government, central government all coming together and containing this outbreak," said Arunkumar of Manipal. The other unknown is whether the outbreak has been fully contained. The virus has a 14-day incubation period, so it'll be a month before scientists can say the outbreak has been controlled. "We'll have to wait and see," said Anoop Kumar of BMH.
Story highlights When starting to run, don't do too much too soon You need to take rest days Make sure you have the right gear Running is a great way to get in shape and just about everyone can do it. You don't need access to a fancy gym, expensive equipment, or other people to do the workout. You can simply throw on your sneakers and head out the door for a run. Easy as that! Given that it's so easy to take up the sport, a lot of beginners jump right into running without actually knowing what it takes to establish a healthy routine. Many make a number of common mistakes, which can interfere with training or lead to injury. If you're just starting out, keep these things in mind to help you increase your chances of running success. Doing too much too soon One of the biggest mistakes newbie runners make is doing too much too soon. Picking up a new hobby like running is no doubt exciting, but novice runners need to ease into the sport by building up a mileage base before increasing the distance, intensity, and frequency of their runs. Slowly easing into a training program will help reduce the risk of injury, so you can continue on with your new running routine. Many experts suggest increasing your mileage by no more than 10% each week. Read More
Suzanne Nossel is executive director of PEN America. She was formerly executive director of Amnesty International USA and deputy assistant secretary of state for international organizations at the State Department. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) RT -- the Kremlin-funded news channel formerly known as "Russia Today," frequently cited as a central gear in Russia's propaganda machine -- is nothing if not colorful. The network is known for declaring the Boston Marathon bombings a government plot , publicly shaming its own journalists if they dare defy the Kremlin line and for featuring American commentators known for conspiracy-mongering. Following years of hue and cry over the network's overt pro-Kremlin bias, earlier this month the Department of Justice forced the channel to file under the "Foreign Agents Registration Act," or FARA , a 1938 law that was initially passed to counter pro-Nazi propaganda and subsequently retooled in the 1960s to publicly pinpoint those lobbying on behalf of foreign interests. Forcing RT to register as a foreign agent is justified, but isn't the best way to counter the propaganda the channel -- or any other source of disinformation for that matter -- puts out. While RT has howled its objections, the network may protest too much. Absent a far wider effort to incentivize and enable news consumers to distinguish serious news and analysis from agitprop, FARA registration or not, the influence of RT and other shady news sources may survive intact. The problem is that while RT's FARA registration may make members of Congress and administration officials feel as though they've landed a blow in the fight against Russian propaganda, RT's filing with the Justice Department may well never register with most news consumers. From the looks of things there is no easy way for a consumer of RT to learn that it has filed as a foreign agent. It is not mentioned in the "About Us" section of RT nor flagged on RT stories that appear in Google searches. The same is true of the China Daily News, a media outlet long registered under FARA as an agent of the Chinese government. News cognoscenti are already well aware of RT's lineage, but to get through to those who read and believe the network will require more than the fine print in a government filing. Former FBI Director James Comey put it bluntly in testimony last March before the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, saying, "The Kremlin is waging an international disinformation campaign through the RT propaganda network which traffics in anti-American conspiracy theories that rivaled the extravagant untruths of Soviet era Pravda." In late October Twitter announced that it would "off-board" all advertising from RT and Sputnik, another Russian-controlled platform, based on its own investigation and on US intelligence agencies' conclusion that the networks had sought to influence the outcome of the 2016 election at Putin's behest. Whereas FARA contains an exception for bona fide media organizations, those state-owned entities that have qualified for it -- including the BBC and Germany's Deutsche Welle -- have strong layers of publicly visible and reputable independent governance that shield editorial decision-making from government interference. While critics have been hard-pressed to argue that RT does not meet the criteria for registration under the act, they have rightly pointed out that by enforcing its provisions against the network, the US will likely trigger a wave of retaliatory and copycat measures designed by governments to clamp down on media outlets considered unfriendly. Indeed, the Russian Duma, acting at Putin's behest, moved swiftly to pass its own version of foreign media registration requirements last week. Russia's Ministry of Justice has let US government-backed networks, including Voice of American and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) know that they may be required to register under the new act. Russia is also reportedly considering more sweeping bans on the availability of foreign print media. In some ways, these new measures are old news: US government-backed VOA and RFE/RL have been blocked from broadcasting in Russia for years. The more worrying prospect is that repressive regimes elsewhere in the world -- think the Philippines' Rodrigo Duterte or Uzbekistan's Islam Karimov -- are emboldened in acting to foster local distrust of credible international media outlets. With consumers accessing the vast majority of their news via Facebook and other social media feeds, the likelihood that news of RT's filing will color the reception of its stories among those who currently tune in seems dim. Tangible indicators of likely veracity -- including information about the news source, its track record, ethical guidelines and reporting methods -- can be ferreted out only through time-consuming research, if at all. A study earlier this year by the Media Insight Project revealed that consumers are far more likely to evaluate the veracity of a news article based on who shared it than what the source is. If anything, worries about RT's influence point to the fact that transparency in American news media consumption cannot come solely, or even primarily, through force of law. Rather, we need Americans to be trained and educated to expect and demand transparency about ownership, editorial control, potential conflicts of interest and internal checks and processes to preserve objectivity and accuracy from the news that we consume. And, if outlets insist on remaining opaque on these fronts, as has RT, we should know to reject those outlets as unreliable. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook We should prize voluntary transparency by news outlets, and should refuse to pay for, devote our attention to, do business with and share information from outlets unwilling to be transparent. As primary conduits for news, social media platforms have an essential role to play in equipping and empowering users to get the information they need to make sound judgments about what they're reading and sharing. In an open media ecosystem, especially as one as large and freewheeling as the internet, government regulation is never going to be a satisfactory answer for the scourge of fraudulent news or propaganda. Ultimately, the best defense against fake news and foreign propaganda lies in comprehensive public education on the uses and misuses of media. News literacy curricula in schools and workplaces, easier-to-use reference material tied to news shared online, transparent newsroom policies on subjects like conflicts of interest and corrections and rigorous methods of sourcing and crediting are all essential to enabling news consumers to navigate the information ocean in which many now drown. It is true that Americans are fiercely independent in choosing what media to consume and credit. But no one wants to be fooled. Rather than consoling ourselves that RT's motives and loyalties will now be laid bare, the network's belated registration under FARA is just one more reminder that absent more far-reaching action, purveyors of propaganda and fraudulent news will likely continue to work their will on a populace that is ill-equipped to defend itself.
(CNN) An increase in birth defects associated with a 2015-2016 epidemic of Zika virus in Brazil caused widespread concern, fear and in some cases hysteria throughout the Americas. Now, research suggests that broadcasts of the epidemic coupled with dire health warnings inspired a very real response from the population. About 120,000 fewer babies than expected were born from late 2015 through 2016, after the Zika outbreak began in Brazil, according to a study published this week in the scientific journal PNAS. The findings suggest that, due to fears of potential effects of a Zika virus infection during pregnancy, Brazilians postponed pregnancy or possibly had an increased number of abortions, the authors say. 'Postponement of pregnancy and abortions' Zika virus was first identified 70 years ago. It is primarily transmitted through the bite of an infected female Aedes aegypti mosquito. Though isolated, small-scale outbreaks had occurred in various parts of the world, including Africa, Southeast Asia and the Pacific islands, no major complications had been linked to the virus until it arrived in Brazil, which reported an extensive outbreak to the World Health Organization in March 2015. During the South American outbreak, doctors and scientists observed that infection with the Zika virus during pregnancy was associated with microcephaly and other negative health effects. At the time, the Brazilian government advised women to delay pregnancy. Microcephaly, a neurological disorder in which the skull and brain of a fetus do not develop properly, can cause severe developmental issues. Other possible effects of Zika infection during pregnancy include alternative birth defects, such as eye problems or hearing loss, or miscarriage. Since the Brazilian outbreak, scientists have learned more about the virus itself, yet studies of demographic effects have lagged. Researchers led by Marcia C. Castro, a professor of demography at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, used Brazilian data on births, fetal deaths and hospitalizations related to abortion complications during 2010-16 to forecast births from September 2015 to December 2016, the period of the Zika epidemic. Though there were 119,095 fewer births than expected, no changes in fetal deaths or increases in abortion-related hospitalizations were seen. "We argue that postponement of pregnancy and abortions, primarily, likely affected fertility, with implications for women's reproductive health," Castro and her co-authors wrote. Women's reproductive rights Dr. Albert Ko, professor of epidemiology at the Yale School of Public Health, said this is "a very important study that really highlights a phenomenon about how human behavior adapts or responds to an epidemic." Ko, an expert in infectious disease who was not involved in the research, recalled how concern about birth defects rose in July and August 2015, when Brazilian obstetricians began to identify malformations during routine ultrasounds. "That was not necessarily reported until the end of September 2015," said Ko, who lived in Brazil for 15 years. "The public health emergency in Brazil was announced November 15 ... and then there was this whole deluge of media." The new study, which "drills down" into demographic data, is "the first comprehensive study to really show these trends in births," he said. Yet the research "can't really get at the exact reason why." "Zika was an important epidemic, and it highlighted the importance of women's reproductive rights in Brazil," Ko said. Abortion is illegal in Brazil except in cases of rape, incest or when the mother's life is in danger. Ko said that Brazil already had a tragedy that has been "going on for decades." That tragedy, according to Ko: a high rate of clandestine abortions with high complication rates , resulting in a large number of hospitalizations. The authors of the new study use hospitalizations from abortion complications as evidence for the number of abortions during the study period. "We don't have good data on the amount of clandestine abortions," Ko said, noting that this is a weakness of the study. Ko himself has cared for hundreds of Brazilian women with life-threatening complications resulting from clandestine abortions, "so my gut feeling going through the article is probably the major effect that the authors are seeing -- a decrease in birth -- is not actually due to intentional abortions." Because hospitalizations for abortion complications didn't rise during the study period, he believes it is more likely that fears of a Zika infection led couples to avoid conceiving during the epidemic period. Ko published a study this year that focused on the Brazilian city of Sao Jose do Rio Preto, which had a later Zika outbreak period than Sao Paulo. Having had a "jump start," he said, "the women in that city were aware of the Zika epidemic," and this resulted in a 30% decrease in births, he and his co-authors estimate. The new study, then, is a comprehensive look at what Ko and other groups have seen and reported anecdotally or on a smaller scale. One of two important questions raised by the new study, Ko said, is: How much Zika is still going to happen in the Americas and in the Caribbean? Herd immunity -- when enough people have been infected by or vaccinated against a disease and so likely won't develop an infection -- protects people, including pregnant women, who have never been exposed to the virus because it decreases the probability of viral transmission from human to mosquito to human. Ko fears there may be pockets in the Americas where a background level of exposure to the Zika virus infection has not yet reached the herd immunity limit. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. The second question haunting Ko is, "Of all the women who were exposed -- and this was a large epidemic, and there were millions of women across the Americas that were exposed and millions of women who were pregnant at that time -- why did only a small fraction, 6%, 7%, 8%, develop these severe manifestations, severe birth defects due to Zika?" Cross and her co-authors note that Zika infections may have declined, but "the threat is not gone." Aedes aegypti "reigns in Brazilian cities and currently transmits dengue, Zika, chikungunya, and Mayaro virus, and is competent to transmit the strains of the yellow fever virus circulating in the country," the authors wrote. "A new epidemic of Zika virus is possible, and could be exacerbated by climatic conditions."
SASKATOON — A Saskatoon man says he was cut on the forehead and suffered a concussion after an axe came flying through his truck's windshield. Mackenzie Peddle says he doesn't remember getting hit in the face while he was driving home to Saskatoon from Yorkton, Sask., earlier this month. Mackenzie Peddle is shown in a handout photo. He says when he came to, the truck's windshield was shattered, there was an axe lying near him and blood was spattered over his face and seats. Peddle says he must have passed out after somehow managing to pull over to the side of Highway 16 near the community of Plunkett. The electrician says his foot was on the brake and the truck was still in gear when a passerby approached. A Saskatoon man says he was cut on the forehead and sustained a concussion after an axe came flying through his truck's windshield, shown in a handout photo. RCMP say they are investigating but have no leads as to where the axe came from. "A lady pulled over and woke me up on the side of the road. I didn't really know what happened or how long I'd been out," Peddle told CKOM Radio. He credits the sunglasses he was wearing for saving his eye from the axe blade. Peddle said he managed to phone RCMP and take some photos of the damage to his face and truck. A Saskatoon man says he was cut on the forehead and sustained a concussion after an axe came flying through his truck's windshield, shown in a handout photo. An officer arrived and took his own photos, then drove up and down the highway to see if any other debris had fallen off a vehicle. "He went around to the farms and farmhouses, but no one had seen anything," Peddle said. Humboldt RCMP said Tuesday they were looking for the public's help in the investigation. A Saskatoon man says he was cut on the forehead and sustained a concussion after an axe came flying through his truck's windshield, shown in a handout photo. Peddle said it's not the first time something has flown through his windshield while he was driving on the highway. He said about a decade ago, he was driving his car when a long piece of rebar fell off a truck, bounced off the pavement and pierced the windshield on the driver's side — missing him by inches.
Lisa Jamison, 48, is serving her fourth term on the Hyannis area school board. She won the tittle of Miss Rodeo America in 1991 and competed in barrel racing, pole bending and goat tying. Lisa Jamison, 48, is serving her fourth term on the Hyannis area school board. She won the tittle of Miss Rodeo America in 1991 and competed in barrel racing, pole bending and goat tying. Pat Keslar is a retired bank president who says he could have left Hyannis to make big money but stayed to pursue his dream of raising hunting dogs and quarter horses. He was a Trump supporter from day one, shows off his vaulted safe full of rifles and ammunition and says, mocking Clinton, "I'm one of those deplorables -- and proud of it." With him is Jaws, a hunter retriever champion. Pat Keslar is a retired bank president who says he could have left Hyannis to make big money but stayed to pursue his dream of raising hunting dogs and quarter horses. He was a Trump supporter from day one, shows off his vaulted safe full of rifles and ammunition and says, mocking Clinton, "I'm one of those deplorables -- and proud of it." With him is Jaws, a hunter retriever champion. Sharline Hayward Haney of Hyannis was the face of a Nebraska beef campaign starting in the late 1950s. This image is on display in the Grant County Museum, upstairs in the county courthouse. Her daughter-in-law is the county clerk. Sharline Hayward Haney of Hyannis was the face of a Nebraska beef campaign starting in the late 1950s. This image is on display in the Grant County Museum, upstairs in the county courthouse. Her daughter-in-law is the county clerk. Marilyn Harris, 55, moved to Grant County from Palm Beach, Florida, 14 years ago, after she said she received a God-given vision that she would have cattle. She did, until a recent divorce. She runs a bed and breakfast in Hyannis, where she also feeds seniors. She is paid in flowers to feed a florist's mother. Marilyn Harris, 55, moved to Grant County from Palm Beach, Florida, 14 years ago, after she said she received a God-given vision that she would have cattle. She did, until a recent divorce. She runs a bed and breakfast in Hyannis, where she also feeds seniors. She is paid in flowers to feed a florist's mother. Bill Baker, 59, is the veterinarian in town and focuses as much as 90% of his practice on cows and calves, the rest on horses, dogs and cats. He likes living in a place that's quiet and where residents don't need to be entertained. "People don't mess with you," he says. "You live your life." Bill Baker, 59, is the veterinarian in town and focuses as much as 90% of his practice on cows and calves, the rest on horses, dogs and cats. He likes living in a place that's quiet and where residents don't need to be entertained. "People don't mess with you," he says. "You live your life." Amanda White, 42, left, and Montica Haney, 44, work at the deli counter in the gas station. Haney's husband is employed by the railroad, so their family insurance is covered, a rarity in Grant County. White says she's on Obamacare only to avoid paying penalties. The government, she says, "feared us into it." Amanda White, 42, left, and Montica Haney, 44, work at the deli counter in the gas station. Haney's husband is employed by the railroad, so their family insurance is covered, a rarity in Grant County. White says she's on Obamacare only to avoid paying penalties. The government, she says, "feared us into it." A couple times a month, people pull into the center of Hyannis with truck beds full of dead coyotes, which are a nuisance to ranchers. A buyer comes in from out of town to inspect and purchase the animals for the fur trade. A couple times a month, people pull into the center of Hyannis with truck beds full of dead coyotes, which are a nuisance to ranchers. A buyer comes in from out of town to inspect and purchase the animals for the fur trade. Tom White, 71, is a county commissioner. He says younger people are returning to the area. "They found out life on the other side wasn't so sweet after all," he says. Tom White, 71, is a county commissioner. He says younger people are returning to the area. "They found out life on the other side wasn't so sweet after all," he says. Merla Hebbert, 85, was born into a family that has ranched in Grant County ever since her granddad settled here. As a little girl, she rode her favorite horse, Rat, to school by herself -- as far as 8 miles each way. Merla Hebbert, 85, was born into a family that has ranched in Grant County ever since her granddad settled here. As a little girl, she rode her favorite horse, Rat, to school by herself -- as far as 8 miles each way. Main Street in Hyannis, the Grant County seat, features a small handful of businesses, including a grocery store, a bank, a restaurant, a bar and a health care clinic that is open only one full day a week. Main Street in Hyannis, the Grant County seat, features a small handful of businesses, including a grocery store, a bank, a restaurant, a bar and a health care clinic that is open only one full day a week. Hyannis, Nebraska (CNN) -- Deep in the Sandhills of rural Nebraska, where a two-lane highway curves between prairies and grass-covered dunes, there is a county full of surprises. It's home to Hyannis, a small village without stoplights, where fresh hot coffee is free, everyone waves and, in 1931, a news report named it "The Richest Town in America." Cattle are king and far outnumber people in this county, small children ride horses as comfortably as they walk, and John Wayne's loyal stunt man grew up here, ranching. Roping competitions and pie socials help neighbors in crisis, and people make extra cash selling truckloads of dead coyotes to fur traders. Life in Grant County, population 641 , could not be more different than the gilded Big Apple existence long enjoyed by President Donald Trump. Still, it ranked among the top counties in the country supporting him in November; he got more than 93% of the votes here. And yet Grant holds another distinction: It's the county with the highest percentage of Obamacare enrollees in the nation. One in three residents, or 33% of the under-65 population, bought insurance on Obamacare exchanges, official data from a year ago show. The national average is just 5%, which raises the question: In a place so tied to the Affordable Care Act, why would people back the man who vowed to repeal it? Wouldn't that seem a vote against the community's own interests? "People may think we're slow," explains one man, "but we're not stupid." In their world, one they feel is overlooked by those in big cities or on the coasts, their actions make perfect sense. You can't possibly understand, they say, unless you've lived here. I set out to try. Breaking the news Just mention politics to a group of men unwinding over gas station coffee and the insults come fast and fierce, political correctness be damned. "The black bomb" is how one rancher describes Trump's predecessor. "This guy came out of the sewers of Chicago. How could he be good?" The rancher's not about to give his name to someone with the "Clinton News Network" -- what he calls CNN -- but he and his friends are happy to rail against the former administration. Obamacare is right up there on the list of things gone wrong, they say. The hands they extend for shakes are rough and callused, symbols of how hard people here work. They are self-sufficient and don't like being told what to do any more than they like taking handouts. They take care of themselves, and each other, and don't need government stepping in to muck things up. That their county leads the nation in Obamacare enrollees is news to everyone I meet. "If they're on it, they're not saying," one man theorizes. People are on it only because the government "put a gun to people's heads," offers another. And just because they're on it, they warn, doesn't mean they like it. No other choice Walking through Hyannis, the county seat, I hear stories of skyrocketing premiums, deductibles that can't be met and brewing resentment. If people don't want to pay the penalty for not having insurance, which is taken out of the tax refunds they rely on, they're trapped. What they tell me might give pause to Obamacare experts, who say the Affordable Care Act is complicated, is hard to navigate and often leaves people misinformed about costs and choices. But these are the experiences and perceptions of how the law has played out in Grant County. Why some Nebraskans hate Obamacare Less choice. Higher premiums. Ideological opposition. These are some of the reasons so many rural Nebraskans may not be happy with their insurance under Obamacare. But there's also evidence the Affordable Care Act has helped rural communities like Grant County -- gains that could be erased with a repeal. READ MORE Some have appreciated newfound coverage: With it, they were able to take care of longstanding problems, like the woman with a prolapsing uterus who could finally have a hysterectomy. But most people I meet complain that they're on Obamacare only because they have no other choice. Unless they work for the school, the county, the railroad or the electric company -- and the vast majority of people in cattle country don't -- these aren't Americans fortunate to be covered by an employer's insurance plan. Some might have been so lucky in the past, but that luck ran out when the Affordable Care Act came in, they say. Ginger Fouse curates the Grant County museum in the county courthouse. She's rushing to make a doctor's appointment in Alliance, 60 miles away and home to the closest hospital. Before she goes, she makes her feelings about Obamacare clear: "Nothing but horseshit." Fouse's husband is a ranch hand, and they used to get coverage through the ranch. But once Obamacare hit the scene, she says, the rancher believed everyone could take care of themselves. Only problem is, Fouse says, she and her husband can no longer afford the premiums. So they're now covered by nothing. "We're not going to quit eating to pay insurance," she says before heading out the door. Ellen White, a museum volunteer, steps in to introduce me to the area she's always called home. She shows off aged photographs: the old town hall where they used to dance, images from the 1949 blizzard that wiped out cattle and snapshots from the first old-timer rodeo. Ellen White, 69, volunteers at the county museum and speaks proudly of the history and work ethic that shaped her and others. "We've gotten along in this world without anyone telling us what to do," she says. A man's barbed-wire collection is on display, as is memorabilia from the deceased military doctor who delivered White and countless other locals. The highlight, though, is a collection of keepsakes from the late Chuck Hayward, who took his horses to Hollywood and worked as John Wayne's stuntman. Included are action shots, the saddle Hayward used while filming in Afghanistan and wooden stirrups from a shoot in Chile. There's also a saddle said to have been used by Wayne himself during the filming of "True Grit." White, 69, describes a time she wishes younger generations would appreciate. She grew up on a ranch south of Ashby, an unincorporated community just west of Hyannis. She, like so many others, rode a horse to her country school. She had three older brothers, and if they told her she couldn't do something, she proved she could. She was able to drive a team of horses by age 5 and helped milk 12 to 15 cows every morning and night. Life was tough, but it made people who they are. They worked for everything they had. Sometimes she watches HGTV and is stunned by house hunters shopping for $500,000 homes. "They'll pay on those houses forever and ever," she says. "We didn't buy anything unless you could pay cash for it." It's that sort of responsibility and practicality that courses through this ranching community's veins. Assessing life here Roughly 150 ranches dot the county, most of them passed down through families. It's an area where the first homesteaders arrived in the 1880s, tried to farm and failed. The sandy soil worked against them but proved a sweet spot for cattlemen, who snatched up tracts of land. The ranches are private and sit far off the main roads, in some cases miles off, and are impossible to assess by driving past. Ask a rancher about the size of his land or his herd, and he'll keep those numbers to himself. The question is uncouth, explains Dan Vinton, a lifetime rancher and longtime county commissioner; it's like prying into a person's salary. "We have enough grass to feed the cows," says Vinton, 66. "We have enough cows to take care of the grass." Dan Vinton, a lifetime rancher and longtime county commissioner, knows that this life isn't for everyone. "It's pretty hard for the city person to adjust to the country lifestyle," he says. "You can't just jump into your car and go to Walmart." Over chicken-fried steak in the Hyannis Hotel Restaurant, one of a handful of businesses on Main Street, Vinton and fellow Commissioner Tom White -- who worked in the feed business and is married to Ellen, the museum volunteer -- regale me with their own stories of growing up in Grant County. They didn't have electricity till the 1950s, got up and went to sleep along with the sun and like to say they "had running water because you had to run and get it." They took Saturday night baths in the same water used by their siblings. "We didn't know we were stinky little buggers because we all smelled the same," White, 71, says with a laugh. Life here has always made sense to them, no matter the challenges. When White needed chemo and radiation to treat cancer a couple months back, he and his wife simply rented an apartment near the hospital in Scottsbluff, more than 100 miles away, for five weeks. They'll travel to Denver for his upcoming surgery. They aren't city folk and don't want to be. Vinton drives that point home when he admits he and his wife have cell phones only so they can find each other when they get separated in the Walmart, which is well over an hour from home. Vinton's son works at the family ranch and is on Obamacare. His folks and the Whites aren't on it themselves, but they look forward to the day when it's abolished. They hear people complain about rates rising and call the program "ridiculous." Not wanting to be dependent A 31-year-old woman sits in the restaurant beside her towheaded boy. To her, Obamacare is maddening, and she unleashes her frustration. She's a college grad who does her research. When she and her husband got married, they picked out a policy and were happy. But then, Obamacare changed everything. They could no longer afford the private plan they liked. The number of companies she could choose from on the Obamacare exchange dwindled; only two choices exist today. They switched to one company only to see it get absorbed by another. They watched their premiums and deductibles increase, along with out-of-pocket expenses. They've been on four plans in two years. She's married to a rancher, and in ranching, it's hard to estimate how much a person will earn each year. When cows sell high, ranchers do well. But, as in any market, the numbers fluctuate. One year, her family might make $20,000; another $50,000, she says. Financial uncertainty makes planning a crapshoot. A stunning thing happened, though, when she got pregnant with her son. Suddenly, she was told she qualified for Medicaid, a notion that made her Republican head spin. "I want to be responsible for myself. I don't want to be dependent," says the woman, who didn't want her name used. "But you priced me out of what I did to take care of myself and forced me into government assistance." Pregnancies only last so long, though, and she doesn't meet the Nebraska Medicaid qualifications for parents. That means she's back to fretting about what this year's premiums will be. "I have to get knocked up," she says, half joking, half disgusted. "Mama needs dental care." Fans turned foes Across the street in the grocery store, I spot Clarissa "Casey" Sanchez working behind the counter. She was a fan of Obamacare at first. Paying $50 a month for herself was both doable and a source of comfort for the 30-year-old employee. But then she got married. With their combined gross incomes, she says, her monthly premium jumped to more than $600, and they make too much to qualify for Medicaid. Her husband has his own private policy, but she says she can't join it because she's pregnant. He bought the low-premium policy before Obamacare, and it doesn't include maternity coverage. Sanchez is determined to take care of herself but feels punished for trying. She's 13 weeks pregnant, scared and crossing her fingers. "I'm going without insurance and hope Trump does something quick," she tells me. Nearby, working at a cash register, Julie Braun, 36, chimes in: "I got married to get off Obamacare." Julie Braun, 36, says she was so disappointed in Obamacare that she got married to get off it. She, too, once enjoyed low premiums -- just $30 a month -- only to see them soar. She needed two ankle surgeries last year, and with a high deductible, copays, therapies, braces and boots -- which aren't covered -- she says she's staring down a $20,000 bill she can't pay. She makes $9 an hour and even with her husband's salary plans to file for medical bankruptcy. Though Braun and her husband had intended to marry at some point, they moved up their wedding date by a couple years. He teaches in the school and has good benefits, and that was all she needed to rush down the aisle. 'A scam and racket' People here say they've had it with Washington and "mealy-mouthed politicians," the sort who speak pretty but say nothing, one local explains. This is why they backed Trump en masse. They like that he has a business record and trust that he can do better by them. "The man didn't get rich as he is by being stupid," says one man who refuses to give his name but pulls me aside to tell his own story. He's 50 and has never paid for health insurance. He calls the health care system "a scam and a racket." When he had a cracked tooth not long ago -- the first dental problem he'd ever had -- the dentist told him it would cost more than $4,000 to fix. "For one tooth!" he exclaims. So he looked at the dentist and asked how much it would cost to pull out all his teeth and give him fake ones instead. It was half the price, so he came back with his checkbook and had every tooth yanked. He now says he's facing a stiff penalty for not having insurance, which enrages him. "I pay for my own medical, and now I have to pay for someone else's?" he says. "Don't get me wrong; I want to do my part. But when does my part stop?" 'Garden of Eden' The Sandhills Oil Company gas station -- just "the station" to locals -- is a popular gathering spot where people gab over coffee. Robin Jameson, 56, sits in the corner office. She moved here to oversee the station, one of several in a family business portfolio. "It felt like home immediately," she says. She likes how people watch out for one another, donating propane and groceries to those in need, and she gives back in her own way. An old rancher strolls into her office, seeking help deciphering a credit card bill. Retired ranchers down the road visit whenever their grandson competes in out-of-town rodeos, so she can set them up on a computer to watch the live-stream. Woody Thompson sits in the station and over coffee talks about his "Garden of Eden." One of the regulars at a station table is Woody Thompson, 76. He landed in this area more than 60 years ago, when he came out of the Dust Bowl looking for work. He says he was brought here by "a drunk and a horse thief." For decades, he worked on ranches. It's been a life rich in independence and great neighbors, the sort who once kept reselling a white leghorn rooster to raise money for a friend dying of brain cancer. These qualities made even the toughest days worthwhile. Digging harnesses out of snow drifts, riding miles and miles in 30-below temperatures, the winter of '78-'79 when the ground never saw less than 3 feet of snow -- he wouldn't take back his time here for anything. "It might not be heaven, but it's the Garden of Eden," Thompson says. A heart problem eventually took him away from ranching. Twice a month, he drives 70 miles south to see his Denver cardiologist, who meets him in Ogallala -- the nearest town on the nearest interstate. (Locals like that the interstate runs through flat Nebraska, allowing them to keep their hills to themselves.) Thompson, who moved to Hyannis 15 years ago, hands over one of his business cards. He's now a traveling rep for a company that performs castrations. With a couple golf balls in a bag, he demonstrates how they're done. Like so many people in this county, he says that Trump's business know-how spoke to him -- even if he doesn't suspect that he'd like the guy personally. "I have three daughters," Thompson says. "If Megyn Kelly had been my daughter, I would have beat the hell out of him." Respecting the law A couple blocks uphill, in the old courthouse, I find Christee Haney. She's in her second term as county clerk and keeps official records in the same books and logs used by clerks in the late 1800s. When she was elected seven years ago, it was to fill multiple offices. In an area as rural as this, she's more than the country clerk. She's also the county assessor, the registrar of deeds, the clerk of the court and the election commissioner. Party registration doesn't dictate votes here, where 81% of registered voters cast ballots in November. She has 40 registered Democrats, she says, but only 20 people voted for Hillary Clinton. Haney's cousin is one example; she's a Democrat who voted for Trump and refused to back Obama, whom she never trusted. Haney, 54, considers the high rate of Obamacare enrollment in Grant County and offers this: People are abiding by the law, simple as that. "It's a matter of respect out here, and that's what we've all taught our kids," she says. Christee Haney, the Grant County clerk and more, writes in the same logs used in the late 1800s. The K-12 school in Hyannis, which serves several counties and has fewer than 150 students, is a source of pride here. The teacher-to-student ratio is 1-to-9, the principal tells me. Students are more than cowboys and cowgirls: They test above the national average, are given their own laptops, flourish in the arts and play sports that draw the community together. Parents who've raised kids here brag about them getting scholarships; one proud dad says his daughter turned down Stanford, MIT and Yale because she wanted to be a Cornhusker. She graduated from the University of Nebraska with perfect grades. People here may not have what big cities offer, but that suits them. When Haney takes a day to run errands in Ogallala, population 4,570 , she finds the traffic and all the people exhausting. She and others here prefer this quiet life with wide-open spaces and fewer stresses. They aren't facing a drug epidemic and don't worry about crime. They leave their keys in the ignition and don't lock their doors. They don't have a homeless problem and don't fret about unemployment. If anyone wants to work, there's work to be had. The folks in Grant County wish people elsewhere would take responsibility in their own lives and stop blaming others for their problems. "People on welfare in big cities make more money not working than we do working," says one woman. She's not the only one I meet who believes this. Not wanting to go without In a small house on the north side of the tracks, where the railroad carries coal from Wyoming and Montana, Terry Keys feeds and burps his 3-month-old son, Deacon. The baby shouldn't be this old. He was born two months early, when severe preeclampsia sent Terry, 34, and his wife, Trish, on an emergency trip to Lincoln at the end of October. Trish and Deacon had to stay there for a month until it was safe to bring the baby home. Terry, who helps drill and service wells, drove more than 300 miles each way to join them on weekends. Trish, the village's 37-year-old salon owner, curls up in the chair beside her husband and son and recounts an odyssey she's still processing. The couple, both Trump supporters, had been uninsured when Obamacare came along. The first year, they paid a penalty of $90. But fearing the prospect of steeper fines, they signed up. With the Affordable Care Act, they could purchase what had previously evaded them for about $150 a month. "It was reasonable, and we didn't have insurance before," Trish says. It helped them, she says, until it didn't. Trish Keys, with 3-month-old Deacon, is fighting to untangle how she ended up with a $104,000 medical bill for her son, who was born two months early. She'd been told their policy would cover Deacon and the exorbitant neonatal intensive care expenses for the first 30 days of his life "no matter what." But she says the insurance company stopped the family's policy without notice. Trish and Terry found out only when they stepped into a pharmacy in Lincoln for flu shots and were told they had no coverage. A panicked phone call later, she was told they qualified for Medicaid and should apply, which meant a flurry of paperwork and bureaucracy. After the trauma of having a preemie and being stuck in a city far from the world she knows, Trish came home to the stress of fighting a $104,000 bill. She still isn't sure who's responsible -- Medicaid or the insurance company -- and only knows she and Terry won't be able to pay it. "There has to be a simpler way. I feel like they've overcomplicated everything," she says. "It's mind-boggling to me," she says before turning her gaze to her son, who finally weighs 9 pounds. "Now that this has happened, you don't want to go without insurance." She hopes to still be able to afford it. And like others in this remote heartland county, she trusts that her new president won't let her down.
Virgin Voyages has unveiled sleek new ship designs in hopes of attracting a different kind of cruise ship traveler.
(CNN) Hurricane Maria may have killed more than 4,600 Americans in Puerto Rico, according to a recent academic report , but Americans paid a lot less attention to the storm compared to storms of similar or even lesser magnitude. In the aftermath of Maria, a number of polls were taken to judge just how closely Americans were paying attention to the devastation and recovery efforts. After the storm hit in late September, a study by non-gold standard pollster YouGov found that only 27% were following news about the effects of Hurricane Maria very closely. To put that in some perspective, the same poll found that 43% and 39% of Americans respectively were very closely following news about the less deadly Hurricane Irma and Hurricane Harvey respectively. Both Harvey and Irma hit hardest in the continental US. In November 2017, just 22% of Americans told gold-standard pollsters at the Kaiser Family Foundation that they were "following news about rebuilding and recovery efforts in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria" very closely. That wasn't much more than the 15% of Americans who said they weren't following it "at all closely". The lack of attention paid to Maria is unusual for a major hurricane (category 3 or higher at its peak) that harmed Americans. Take a look at these polls or average of polls that were taken by the gold standard Kaiser Family Foundation or Pew Research Center in the aftermath of previous powerful hurricanes. In every instance, more Americans were paying very close attention than they were to news about Maria. Hugo (1989): 60% were paying very close attention. Andrew (1992): 66% were paying very close attention. Georges (1998): 43% were paying very close attention. Mitch (1998): 36% were paying very close attention. Floyd (1999): 45% were paying very close attention. Isabel (2003): 47% were paying very close attention. Katrina (2005): 70% were paying very close attention. Wilma (2005): 34% were paying very close attention. Gustav (2008): 37% were paying very close attention. Ike (2008): 46% were paying very close attention. Irene (2011): 42% were paying very close attention. Sandy (2012): 50% were paying very close attention. Matthew (2016): 37% were paying very close attention. Many of these storms were deserving of the attention they received. Sandy ravaged the New York City metropolitan area. Andrew is one of the few storms that was at category 5 status when it made landfall. Katrina altered the history of New Orleans. Maria's death toll, though, was higher than every hurricane but one in recorded history for causing most Americans fatalities in US history. It's more than double the number killed in Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The lack of attention to Maria is no doubt because many Americans don't see Puerto Ricans as citizens of their country. Back in 1993, 46% of Americans said Puerto Ricans were either not citizens or weren't sure, in a CNN poll. A non-gold standard Morning Consult poll taken in September 2017 still found a little less than half of Americans didn't know Puerto Ricans were citizens. The percentage of Americans who recognized the Puerto Ricans as US Citizens did rise after all the news about how Maria devastated Puerto Rico. Still, nearly a quarter of Americans either didn't know or said Puerto Ricans were not citizens in an October 2017 Kaiser Family Foundation poll . And even with that increased knowledge base, just 22% of Americans said they were paying very close attention to what was occurring in Puerto Rico with regards to Maria.
(CNN) Actress and activist Cynthia Nixon made national news on Monday with her announcement that she would run in the Democratic primary this year against New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo . But, how much danger does Nixon actually pose to Cuomo, who is seeking a third term as the most powerful elected official in the Empire State? To answer that, I reached out to Capital Tonight's Nick Reisman . Our conversation, conducted via email and lightly edited for flow, is below. Cillizza: Was the Cynthia Nixon candidacy expected -- by Gov. Cuomo or the political class more generally? Reisman: I think a lot of people were surprised this became real, including Cuomo. When Albany first heard the rumor of a Nixon candidacy, it was largely seen as being through the prism of Cuomo's problems with education advocates. Nixon has been very close with the Alliance for Quality Education, an organization that has been pushing the state to fulfill the terms of a lawsuit over equitable funding for school districts. Nixon has been to the state Capitol to advocate on this very issue. Cuomo clearly saw this as a de Blasio-backed effort. The day after it was reported de Blasio-linked campaign consultants Bill Hyers and Rebecca Katz were working with Nixon on a potential primary, Cuomo went on a tear against the mayor . It was very Cuomoian, blasting de Blasio for being all talk and no action in TV and radio interviews that were ostensibly being held about a snowstorm. Cuomo has never faced an opponent like this in his career, so an actual strategy may take a while to emerge. Cillizza: How much disaffection is there within the Democratic Party in the state for Cuomo? And why didn't someone more prominent -- de Blasio? -- run? Reisman: Polling has shown Cuomo to hold steady with self-identified liberals and registered Democrats. He is, after all, the governor who successfully moved the chess pieces around, LBJ-style, to achieve the legalization of same-sex marriage. One thing Cuomo is really good at, especially in his second term, is recalibrating. The 2014 primary he had with Zephyr Teachout was really a catalyst for the last four years in state politics and his agenda. In that primary, liberals were upset that Cuomo warred with public labor unions over pension benefits and teacher evaluations and would not ban hydrofracking. In term two, Cuomo made peace with the state's major public employees unions and the New York State United Teachers union. He banned fracking soon after his re-election , winning him praise from environmental groups. He won the passage of an increase in the state's minimum wage , which will phase in to $15 in the New York City area in the coming years. The $15 minimum wage policy was actually on the platform of the Green Party candidate, Howie Hawkins, in 2014. The $15 minimum wage went from the Green Party to state law in two years. But the biggest concern Democrats and liberals have with Cuomo is the state Senate, which is tied up in a major Gordian Knot. The Senate is narrowly controlled by Republicans (and it's really the last lever of power Republicans hold statewide in New York). In 2011, on the day Cuomo first took office as governor, four Senate Democrats announced they were forming their own conference, known as the Independent Democratic Conference, led by Bronx Sen. Jeff Klein. The IDC has acted as something of a coalition-style government with Senate Republicans and has grown to eight members. In the 2013-14 session, the IDC actually joined in what was known as a "majority coalition" with Republicans, sharing power in the chamber. The Republicans regained an outright majority in the Senate in 2014. Cuomo has been seen by his liberals critics as an enabler of this arrangement: a weak Republican conference with a small advantage that he can play off the Democratic-dominated state Assembly. The IDC has gone to pains to take credit for key victories such as several increases in the minimum wage, including the $15 deal. But liberals remain dissatisfied with this arrangement, arguing that a Republican Senate has blocked reforms such as enacting early voting and strengthening abortion rights, both of which Cuomo has endorsed. Cuomo has come under increasing pressure since Donald Trump's election to help his party gain power in the Senate. Next month is going to be really important. Last year, the New York Democratic Committee announced a unity deal between the IDC and the mainline Democrats, which was dependent upon the party winning two open seats in the Bronx and Westchester County, the latter of which the GOP hopes to be competitive in. Should both Democrats win, the theory is the party has a numerical majority. Here's where it gets even more complicated: The Democratic world in New York will then have to convince Sen. Simcha Felder to switch conferences . Felder is a registered Democrat who sits with the Republicans in the Senate. He has also been a major thorn in the side of de Blasio. For what it is worth, Felder has said, vaguely, he will join with whichever side is "best for my constituents." So, the math would go like this: Democrats win both seats on April 24 . There would then be 32 registered Democrats to be seated in the 63-member Senate (eight IDC members, 23 mainline Democratic members and one Simcha Felder). Should Cuomo successfully claim credit for flipping the state Senate -- in the middle of the legislative session, mind you -- it could go a long way to helping stave off further liberal angst with his tenure. As for de Blasio not running: Keep in mind being mayor of New York City is no launchpad to the Executive Mansion in Albany. Ed Koch, famously, could not do it against Mario Cuomo. Upstate Democrats would be skeptical of a de Blasio-for-governor campaign as would, quite frankly, a lot of New York City voters. A prominent person from politics running against Cuomo would face instant blow back from the institutions that are supporting the governor's re-election. Nixon is a relative outsider and, as we've seen on the national level, sometimes that doesn't hurt. Cillizza: Break down this race. Is it Cuomo vs. Nixon? Or will there be other credible challengers? And if it's one-on-one, what does Nixon's ceiling look like? Reisman: Currently Cuomo does have two other declared contenders in the primary aside from Nixon: Former state Sen. Terry Gipson and Randy Credico, a comedian and activist. Gipson is a one-term former lawmaker from the Poughkeepsie area who lost his re-election in 2014 and then lost an attempted comeback bid in 2016. Credico is certainly a colorful and passionate character who has played a bit role in the Wikileaks saga and has made runs for office before. Perhaps the best, albeit imperfect, guide here is Zephyr Teachout's primary campaign in 2014. Teachout had little name recognition but harnessed a lot of the proto anti-Cuomo vibes, such as his awkwardness with the Occupy Wall Street movement and his hesitation to tax the rich, along with the anti-fracking movement and public union agita. Teachout got 34 percent of the vote in the primary. If there's a baseline for Nixon, it's that. A Siena College poll that was taken last week, before Nixon entered the race, put her at 19 percent against Cuomo. I expect that will climb. A lot of people expect Nixon to draw votes in New York City, given the headaches surrounding mass transit and the subway in particular. Don't be so sure. Teachout got votes in the primary from rural, upstate voters too, what I call Farmers Market Democrats. Think enclaves like Ithaca. Many of them probably voted for Bernie Sanders, are concerned with the environment and income inequality. There's not a ton of these people, but if this is close, they could be important. Meanwhile, Cuomo could still draw votes in New York City, especially from black and Latino supporters. That leaves the suburbs: the Hudson Valley and Long Island. If it's close, expect Cuomo in those areas -- a lot. Also important to note: New York's primaries are closed to people enrolled in the parties. Cillizza: New York doesn't have term limits on its governors. But history suggests people get sick of them. Is Cuomo pushing the needle on that or no? Reisman: Great question! We'll know in November. But seriously, New Yorkers don't get that sick of their governors, necessarily. George Pataki served three terms. Mario Cuomo served three terms. Nelson Rockefeller left to become vice president after being elected four times. Mario Cuomo was caught up in a combination of incumbency fatigue and the 1994 Republican wave that Al D'Amato saw the chances of a little-known state senator named George Pataki being pretty good. There was fatigue with Pataki after three terms and a strong challenger in Eliot Spitzer in 2006 that hastened his retirement. The fact remains that for governors of New York, as well as mayors of the city, the third term is always a tough one. Ask Michael Bloomberg, Ed Koch or Mario Cuomo. We haven't really gotten into the campaign season just yet with Cuomo, so we don't what his theory of the case is for why he wants to serve another four years. I think he does genuinely love being governor of New York, though. He likes that his father held that job and the prestige he sees with occupying the office. The big "what if" remains political corruption and whether there will be any fallout from the trial of Cuomo's former close aide, Joe Percoco, who was convicted last week . There are more corruption trials to come this year, including one with developers who received major economic developments from the state in an effort to revive the Buffalo economy and just happened to donate to Cuomo's campaigns. At the same time, the former legislative leaders in the Senate and Assembly, Dean Skelos and Shelly Silver, are being re-tried on corruption charges later this spring . If Cuomo becomes too closely associated with Albany's sleaze, which he ran against in 2010, then that could present a real problem. Cillizza: Finish this sentence: "Andrew Cuomo is ___________ worried about Cynthia Nixon." Now, explain. Reisman: I would say "cautiously" worried. When he's on his game, Cuomo can be a very skilled politician governing a complicated large state with complicated politics. He sees corners and angles other people don't, can box in his opponents and has a ton of campaign cash on hand. I wouldn't be surprised if he hits $45 million or $50 million [raised] in this race. There is generally a presumption that Cuomo is in good shape: He's got some well-connected and active labor unions on his side, like 1199 SEIU and the Hotel Trades Council. He's notched liberal victories on the minimum wage and hydrofracking and he's been increasingly blistering when it comes to Trump. The Capitol press corps in Albany does not actually see him all that often. In recent years, Cuomo has rarely held press conferences in the Capitol. This lack of access to him can be frustrating to reporters, but it also makes sense from a strategy point of view. He prefers calling into radio shows or doing satellite interviews on TV, controlled settings compared to the free-wheeling gaggle or shout-y press conference. It boils down to this: Cuomo has little room for error in these next six months.
(CNN) Sara Zaske's daughter, Sophia, rarely showed much interest in having her own cell phone -- that is, until they moved back to the United States from Germany. About six years ago, when Sophia was just a toddler, Zaske and her husband moved the family from Oregon to Berlin. By the time Sophia was in third grade in Berlin, almost no one in her class owned a cell phone, let alone a smartphone, Zaske said, and Sophia hardly noticed. "At that time, she only knew a few kids who had a phone, and most of those phones were flip phones" and not connected to the internet, Zaske said. But when Zaske and her family moved to California's San Francisco Bay Area, Sophia entered fourth grade and became the only student in her class without a smartphone, Zaske said, and the girl noticed. Parenting Without Borders considers how parenting trends and methods differ -- or don't -- around the world. "So she tells me, 'I think I might need a phone, Mom.' And I say, 'What for? You didn't need it before; why do you need it now?' " said Zaske, author of the upcoming book " Achtung Baby: An American Mom on the German Art of Raising Self-Reliant Children ," to publish in January. "We intend to give Sophia a flip phone next year so that she can call us and make plans with friends after school more easily, but we will hold off on the smartphone until high school," she said. As in most developed countries, Zaske said, many German children had access to smartphones or computers in their homes, but owning their own mobile device was not as common as it appears to be among children and teens in the United States. Here is a sampling of at what age children around the world are given their own cell phones. 'Children across countries were sensitive to costs' Across Europe, about 46% of children 9 to 16 own a smartphone, according to a study published in the journal New Media & Society in 2015. The study surveyed about 3,500 children in Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Romania and the United Kingdom between 2013 and 2014. "Back in 2014, around 80% of children owned either a mobile phone or a smartphone; 46% owned a smartphone and 33% a mobile phone," said Giovanna Mascheroni, a senior lecturer at the Università Cattolica of Milan in Italy and lead author of the study. Yet, she added, there were differences across countries in how much children were allowed to use their smartphones in school and other places. "Children in Italy and the UK were more likely to be restricted at school. They had no access to Wi-Fi and had to turn off their smartphones, whereas children in Denmark reported using the smartphone for class activities more frequently," Mascheroni said. "Children in Portugal were more affected by the economic crisis, so they reported not having an internet plan any longer because it was too expensive," she said. "In general, though, children across countries were sensitive to costs. They used Wi-Fi networks when possible and switched 3G or 4G off to save money and power." In the United States, cell phone ownership seems to begin at a younger age. Kids having their own service plans In a Nielsen report released in February , about 45% of US children 10 to 12 had their own smartphone with a service plan, as opposed to just using Wi-Fi. When did kids get a service plan? About 22% did so around age 10, 15% at ages 9 or 11, and 16% around age 8, according to the report. JUST WATCHED Keeping tabs on your kids' screen time Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Keeping tabs on your kids' screen time 03:14 A separate report released last month by the nonprofit organization Common Sense Media found that 42% of US children 8 and younger now have their own tablet devices. Those numbers came as no shock to Douglas Gentile, a psychology professor at Iowa State University who was not involved in the new report but has studied the effects of media use on children. "It's not surprising, because it's what we look around ourselves and can see. I can see it at the airport, for example. I can see it at restaurants, and I can even see it in my own home where my younger daughter watches almost no television, but she'll watch lots of TV shows on her phone," Gentile told CNN in October. Outside the US and Europe, children tend to own their first mobile phones when they are older. In South Korea, about 72% of children owned a smartphone by ages 11 to 12, and they would spend up to 5.4 hours a day on them, according to a study published last year in the journal Computers in Human Behavior . In comparison, adults reported spending about 3.8 hours on their phones, according to the study. "It seems that Korean children start to have their own mobile phone around second to third grade, and by the time they become fourth-graders, most of them have mobile phones," said Yoori Hwang, a researcher at Myongji University in Seoul and lead author of the study. Among Taiwanese children, the numbers of those who used cell phones rose steadily from 45% of 11-year-olds to about 71% of 15-year-olds, according to a study published in the Journal of the Formosan Medical Association in 2015. A wide disparity across cultures In Turkey, there was no consensus among parents regarding the best time for their kids to have mobile phones, according to a study published last year in the Interactive Journal of Medical Research . The study involved 333 participants. "We asked the parents the optimal time to buy a mobile phone for their children; approximately 19.5% of the parents responded as 6 to 11 years; 59.8% of the parents responded as 12 to 17 years," said Dr. Meltem Dinleyici, assistant professor in pediatrics at the Eskisehir Osmangazi University Faculty of Medicine and lead author of the study. "According to the parent's responses, 3.3% indicated that there was no need for the presence of a mobile phone for children until the age of 18," Dinleyici said. About four out of five, or 81%, of secondary school students in South Africa own or have access to a mobile phone, and about 31% have their own social network page, according to a report published by UNICEF in 2013. Among children 9 to 18 in Ghana, 18.8% of boys and 12.9% of girls own a mobile phone, according to a study published in the Journal of International Development in 2015. It also showed that among children in Malawi, 10.4% of boys and 6.2% of girls own a mobile phone. Overall, according to the study, ownership of mobile phones climbed between 2007 and 2014 from about 0.6% to 8.4% in Malawi, 2.4% to 16.2% in Ghana and 21% to 50.8% in South Africa. In a study of fourth-year primary school children in Australia, nearly 31% owned or used a mobile phone at the start of the study. A year later, 43% did, according to their parents. For the study, published in the journal Environmental Health in June, data were collected on 412 children from 36 schools in Melbourne and Wollongong between 2010 and 2013. "Parents were asked at what age their child first owned or used a mobile phone. The median age was 8 years," said Mary Redmayne, an adjunct research fellow at Monash University in Australia and a co-author of the study. "It seems that many parents of primary school children want to be able to contact their child, but we have not researched this," she said. "It would be interesting to know other reasons." Best age for a kid's first phone? No one knows All in all, the American Academy of Pediatrics notes that there is no "right" age to expose your child to screens or hand them their own cell phone. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Last year, however, the academy released new recommendations for children's media use . For instance, it recommended that children younger than 18 to 24 months avoid using digital media regularly, except when video-chatting. The academy also advised that for children 2 to 5, screen time should be limited to one hour per day. No matter the age, the academy recommended to avoid using media as the only way to calm your child, monitor your child's media content and what apps are used or downloaded, avoid screens one hour before bedtime, and keep meal times screen-free.
Washington (CNN) For years, comedian Billy Eichner has been known for screaming at people about pop culture on the streets of New York for his show "Billy on the Street." Now, he wants to yell at people about something else: politics. "I've been shouting about silly things -- actors, Oscars, thing I've always cared about," he told CNN in a recent interview. "But I want to use my voice to shout at people about more significant things." Enter Funny or Die -- Will Ferrell and Adam McKay's 11-year-old comedy website that is home to viral videos including Zach Galifianakis' show "Between Two Ferns" (which famously had former President Barack Obama on as a guest in 2014). Eichner has a history with the digital comedy brand, which helped launch "Billy on the Street" and subsequently elevated his career. So it came as no surprise in February of this year when the website announced it is partnering with Eichner yet again. This time for "Glam Up The Midterms," an effort to bring awareness to voting in the midterm elections across the country. "Get ready for the hottest event of the year," Eichner says in the promo video. "No, it's not the Grammys, the Oscars, or the Golden Globes. It's the 2018 midterm elections." TONIGHT join me, @JimmyKimmel and many more of your favorites as we GET OUT THE VOTE and GLAM UP THE MIDTERMS! Help us!!! Sign up now and join the party: https://t.co/ahkVPrVrh4 #Oscars pic.twitter.com/1jhGmMYrmC — billy eichner (@billyeichner) March 5, 2018 As November approaches, Eichner's mission is to reach as many people across the US as possible, one event at a time -- with help from celebrities (such as Sarah Silverman, Jimmy Kimmel, John Oliver and Chelsea Handler) and people Eichner described as "hometown heroes," local activists and leaders from across the US. Funny or Die kicked off its midterms initiative with two events in California: one in April in San Diego, featuring Ron Burgundy, Ferrell's infamous "Anchorman" character; and one in May in Los Angeles, at RuPaul's annual "DragCon." The plan is to hit the road this summer, and go to districts with the most competitive races to encourage people from both sides of the aisle to get to the polls. "I wanted to take something that feels like or sounds like a chore or a test you take in school -- the midterms -- and turn it into people and make it something hot, the sexiest event of the year," Eichner said. "That's a joke, obviously -- but that's our way with having fun of what can be traditionally a very dry, chore-like process." Inspired by a tweet Eichner said he found himself becoming more vocal in the aftermath of the 2016 election. conan billy eichner game of thrones_00023802.jpg "As horrendous as I knew Trump would be, what's truly remarkable is that he's somehow worse than I thought," Eichner tweeted in March of 2017, one of many of his tweets criticizing the President. Ironically, it was a tweet from President Donald Trump that inspired Eichner's idea to launch a political initiative. "I honestly do not recall exactly what tweet it was because there were so many tweets to make you angry," Eichner said. "But in that moment [in the summer of 2017], I called Mike Farah, the CEO of Funny or Die. I said, 'I think we should join forces and do something related to upcoming midterm elections, because all the tweeting and marching is great and nothing really means as much as voting, in terms of trying to get the country back on track.'" Then the brainstorming began. Funny or Die's political aspirations Obama's appearance on "Between Two Ferns" in 2014 wasn't the first time Funny or Die had ventured into politics. In 2008, the site debuted "Prop 8 -- The Musical," starring Jack Black, Neil Patrick Harris, Margaret Cho and others, which poked fun at the California ballot initiative that prohibited gay marriage. A few years later, in 2013, Funny or Die enlisted the help of Alyssa Milano to make a " sextape ," which was actually a video created to educate the public about chemical attacks happening in Syria. However, following the viral success of Obama and Galifianakis' interview, it became apparent to executives at Funny or Die that politically geared comedy videos have a place on the internet, and that politicians could benefit from doing this type of content, too. fod between two ferns obama preview_00001907.jpg "When that episode of 'Between Two Ferns' came out, it was a huge game changer on both sides. We realized we could be doing this kind of stuff all the time," Brad Jenkins, an Obama administration alum who was poached by Funny or Die in 2015, told CNN. "We could be working with nonprofits, foundations, political campaigns, institutions ... and the best comedy writers in the country." Funny or Die hired Jenkins, who served as associate director in the White House Office of Public Engagement, in hopes of building the company's brand in Washington. In 2016, the company also brought on David Litt, one of Obama's speechwriters. Since then, Funny or Die's small DC operation has worked with people and organizations from both sides of the aisle to brainstorm and produce lighthearted, politically centric videos to promote political engagement. Jenkins said he and Eichner looked at data to see what types of initiatives could be most helpful around midterms. The verdict? Homing in on younger people, from both sides of the aisle, who are maybe less tuned in to politics. "We started talking about how no young person votes in midterms. It's really bad," Jenkins said. "But it's a whole new universe right now, and we don't even know who's going to be inspired and fired up to vote. Young people may completely surprise us this cycle and outvote a lot of different demographics. We're going to do everything we can in a strategic way to focus on races that matter and people who have never voted in midterms before." "Glam up the Midterms" also serves as a test for the types of initiatives Funny or Die may want to tackle in 2020, Jenkins said. Kicking off in California And of course, grassroots voter outreach operations have long been part of each political cycle. Earlier this year, Women's March organizers launched their own midterms initiative "Power to the Polls." But both Eichner and Jenkins acknowledged they don't want to be atypical Hollywood types who infiltrate small towns and tell voters what they should believe. And while Eichner himself is not a fan of the Trump administration, he emphasized that "Glam Up The Midterms," like Funny or Die, is nonpartisan. For its first two events, Funny or Die teamed up with Headcount, a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization that works to promote participation in democracy by signing people up to vote at large events such as music festivals. The San Diego event took place at Oceanside High School Performing Arts Center, and featured a conversation about the upcoming primary in California's 49th District, where Republican Rep. Darrell Issa's seat is up for grabs. "The event we did in Issa's district we brought Will Ferrell there -- but in order to come to event you had to sign up for election alerts and commit to voting in the primary," Jenkins said. "With our little event we had close to 5,000 people to sign up to vote in that primary." Billy Eichner and Ron Burgundy (Will Ferrell) "Glam Up The Midterms" at Oceanside High School Performing Arts Center, a conversation about the upcoming primary in CA-49 as part of Funny Or Die and Billy Eichner's "Glam Up The Midterms" non-partisan campaign to encourage and energize young people to vote on April 12, 2018 in Oceanside, California. At DragCon, a three-day drag culture convention, Eichner joined drag queen superstars Alaska 5000 and Peppermint for a panel. More than 50,000 flocked to DragCon this year, according to event organizers. "RuPauls DragCon is really a three-day celebration of everything we hold dear as Americans," RuPaul Charles, the creator behind hit reality TV show "RuPaul's Drag Race" and the convention, said in an email interview with CNN. "And ... if freedom-loving Americans don't get their s--t together, we are all going to be stuck living in a country that doesn't allow all of its citizens their constitutional right to be fierce." California!! Our next Glam Up event is with @RuPaulsDragCon on May 12th!! 👸🏽🤴🏻 Come get registered to vote!! Your June 5th primary is right around the corner!! 🇺🇸 pic.twitter.com/xAm9s8wfmm — Glam Up The Midterms (@GlamUpMidterms) May 3, 2018 Eichner said he was excited to see people show up at these events, and it gave him hope for the events to come (which, he noted, are all still TBD). "At the end of the day, Funny or Die is an entertainment brand, and I'm an entertainer," he said. "I want this to be fun."
Prince Charles will walk Meghan Markle down the aisle at her royal wedding to his son, Prince Harry, on Saturday. Kensington Palace confirmed the news via Twitter on Friday morning:
New Hampshire election officials dug into claims there was widespread voter fraud in the state during the 2016 presidential election and found no evidence to support his claim. In fact, the officials didn’t find much evidence of fraud at all. Donald Trump lost in New Hampshire to Hillary Clinton by 2,732 votes, but he said he would have won had it not been for people bused into the state to illegally cast ballots. He has offered no evidence to support that claim. During a presentation to the state’s Ballot Law Commission on Tuesday, election officials said that 6,033 of the 86,952 people who voted on Election Day did not present a photo ID and signed an affidavit that they were eligible to vote in New Hampshire, according to WMUR. Of those 6,033, the state secretary of state’s office verified that all except for 458 were legitimate voters, WMUR reported. The state attorney general investigated those 458 cases and verified they were eligible voters in all but 66 cases. The data offer a significant rebuttal to one of Trump’s most specific allegations of voter fraud. Even though several studies and investigations have shown voter fraud is not a widespread problem, Trump has repeatedly claimed that 3 million to 5 million people voted illegally in the 2016 presidential election. He convened a federal commission in May to investigate the issue but disbanded it in January before it scrutinized much. One of the panel’s two public meetings was in New Hampshire in September, and Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), the body’s vice chairman, said he had evidence the U.S. Senate election there was swayed by illegal votes, but New Hampshire election officials refuted his claims. There’s no evidence that millions of people voted illegally in 2016, but a recent HuffPost/YouGov poll found that 56 percent of Republicans and 23 percent of Democrats surveyed said they believe it took place. Anne Edwards, a New Hampshire associate attorney general, told the Ballot Law Commission that her office received complaints of buses with out-of-state licenses plates showing up at the polls in 2014 and 2016, WMUR reported. When the attorney general’s office investigated, it determined that the buses were rented from out of state but were used to transport legitimate voters to the polls. She also said the attorney general’s office has investigated 28 complaints of wrongful voting and found just five to be “founded,” according to the Associated Press. Bradford Cook, the chairman of the Ballot Law Commission, requested the presentation from state officials because of heightened concerned about election integrity. “What the president said isn’t true,” he said. “People making wild and irresponsible charges about the integrity of the basic step in democracy — just because they lose an election and can’t get it through their head that people might have voted for somebody else — is destructive.” New Hampshire Secretary of State Bill Gardner (D) used a system called Interstate Crosscheck, run by Kobach, to compare the state’s voter rolls with those of more than two dozen other states to identify possible double voters. The system identified 94,610 people registered in New Hampshire who had the same date of birth and first and last name as a registered voter in one of the other states. When investigators looked further, they found that all but 142 ― about 0.02 percent ― were legal voters in New Hampshire, AP reported. Gardner’s sent 51 of those cases to the attorney general for review and is waiting for more information about the rest. New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu (R) is weighing whether to sign a measure that would change the residency requirements for people to vote in New Hampshire. Current law reads that people may vote in the state if they intend to remain there more than in any other place “for the indefinite future.” The bill would remove that phrase from eligibility criteria — excluding, for example, short-term residents and out-of-state college students. Critics of the proposed measure say it would amount to a poll tax because anyone who met the qualifications to register to vote in the state would also have to register a vehicle there, but the bill’s Republican supporters say the current law is inconsistent and the new one wouldn’t put up obstacles to registering.
The fashion industry’s most famous models and designers mingled with the entertainment industry’s biggest stars Monday night for the annual Costume Institute Gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The Met Gala marked the opening of the Costume Institute’s latest exhibition, “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination,” which also dictated the theme of the night’s dress code. As always, some attendees took things quite literally. Rihanna arrived in a silver-embellished papal ensemble, while Katy Perry dressed like an angel, complete with massive wings. Others, such as SZA, Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, Anne Hathaway and Rita Ora, were among the attendees who opted for halo-like headpieces to complement their outfits, while Madonna, Trevor Noah and Kim Kardashian wore crosses. Scroll through for exclusive photos of the most divine moments of the night ― you won’t see these photos anywhere else:
(CNN) Traveling can wreak havoc on our diets, but packing a nutritious snack or meal before heading out the door can get us started on the right healthy eating track and perhaps give us a bit of wiggle room for indulgences before arriving at our destination. But what travel foods are the most munch-worthy? To find out, I asked 10 nutritionists for their favorite snacks or meals when traveling by road or air. Below, their responses. Nut butter and jam sandwich "Individual containers having no more than 3 ounces of liquids or gels are allowed through security -- and this restriction applies to yogurt, peanut butter, hummus, jam and apple sauce. However, sandwiches are acceptable. I travel with a sandwich made with toasted (prevents sogginess) sprouted whole-grain bread, natural nut butter and an all-fruit jam because it does not need refrigeration and provides a good balance of protein, carbohydrates, fat, fiber, vitamins and minerals. Toss it in a Ziploc bag with baby carrots, and you're good to go. If you are a grazer, deconstruct the sandwich and bring along unsalted dry-roasted nuts, unsulphured dried fruit (or a banana) and rice cakes." -- Layne Lieberman , registered dietitian nutritionist, author of " Beyond the Mediterranean Diet: European Secrets of the Super-Healthy Homemade trail mix "I always make my own trail mix to take with my during my travels. I roast several varieties of nuts, bake granola in the oven with some honey and add dried fruit, whole-grain cereals and maybe a few pieces of chocolate. It is great because I can change it up every time and I know the ingredients, portion size and all of the calories associated with it. (A lot of store-bought trail mix can have tons of added sugar, oil and calories.) It's also balanced with carbohydrates, protein and fat, so I know it will help me feel and stay full. You can pack some extra in your checked luggage if it is a long trip." -- Wesley Delbridge , registered dietitian nutritionist and spokesman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Kind nuts & spices bars "While I'm not much for bars as a day-to-day staple, I think bars are made for traveling; they're so convenient and easy to carry. The Kind nuts & spices bars have about 200 calories, so it's a pretty substantial snack and is mostly made up of satisfying protein, fiber and healthy fats from nuts. They've got only 5 grams (about 1 teaspoon) of sugar, which easily fits into my daily budget. Because I have celiac disease, I also need snacks that are reliably gluten-free, and this can be hard to find on the road. The Kind bars are really easy to find; many coffee shops carry them, and every airport sells them, so I always know I can find something healthy and suitable to eat if travel finds me at the airport and starving in between meals." -- Tamara Duker Freuman , New York City-based registered dietitian Frittata muffins "My favorite travel meal is homemade spinach, red pepper and cheese frittata muffins. Simply make a frittata using a muffin tin so you have egg muffins to grab-'n'-go. Eggs provide high-quality protein, which fills us up and improves our mood. Being in a good mood is important, as traveling can be stressful. Adding the veggies to the mix gives additional vitamins, minerals, nutrients and fiber for a well-balanced, colorful mini-meal. The frittatas should be eaten within two hours or packed in an insulated lunch bag with ice." -- Sarah Koszyk , registered dietitian, sports nutritionist, author of " 365 Snacks for Every Day of the Year Oatmeal "One food that is always in my carry-on travel bag is oatmeal. I either toss in oatmeal packets or the new oatmeal kits that are all-in-one, perfectly balanced meals on the go. With an oatmeal packet, all you have to do is ask the flight attendant or coffee barista for hot water. Simply stir your oatmeal into the hot water and let it sit until thickened. You can grab cinnamon, honey and brown sugar that is available at all coffee shops, and eat. I often throw in a few almonds or walnuts that I have on hand to make a balanced meal. With the new oatmeal kits like Wild Friends , the cup and the peanut butter are provided. ... All I need is hot water, and I'm ready to eat a healthy meal that will keep me from eating unhealthy fast food, and full for the next three hours!" -- Amy Shapiro, registered dietitian and founder of Real Nutrition , a nutritional counseling and weight management practice in New York Crispy roasted chickpeas "After having one too many achy stomach grumbling experiences traveling without food, you'll now always find a tasty snack in my carry-on that's a good source of plant-based protein and fiber; it's a particularly satisfying duo. That's exactly what you'll find in these Saffron Road crunchy chickpeas (vs. munchie chickpeas); it's one of my favorite travel-worthy picks. With so many varieties to choose from, I can always find one that suits whatever flavor mood I'm in. "A simple way to make your own roasted chickpeas is to toss canned, drained chickpeas with olive oil and seasonings of choice, then bake in a 425-degree oven for about 25 to 30 minutes." -- Jackie Newgent , registered dietitian nutritionist, private cooking coach, author of " The All-Natural Diabetes Cookbook Amrita's high-protein bars Miso soup "I love miso soup because it's hot and satisfying. The strong umami taste is perfect for blunted taste buds during travel. And soups provide a sense of fullness and satiety in a modest package. I look for all natural and organic brands that have tofu for a bit of protein, and seaweed, which is a rich source of minerals, including calcium, magnesium and iron. You can find miso soup 'packets' that are slim for travel; you just need to ask the flight attendant for a warm beverage cup and hot water."-- Kate Geagan , registered dietitian, author of " Go Green, Get Lean Homemade granola bars "My favorite snacks for travel are my homemade granola bars because they are packed with fiber, protein and healthy fats, keeping me satisfied until I get off the plane. I use the same formula with oats, nuts, seeds and dried fruit but change up the flavors based on the time of year. For instance, I love my gingerbread granola bars for the colder months but might swap the ginger for cocoa powder or cinnamon now that the weather is getting warmer." -- Kara Lydon, registered dietitian, intuitive eating counselor and blogger at The Foodie Dietitian Salad Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Washington (CNN) Most white working-class voters who are evangelical Christians -- like most white evangelicals -- would consider voting for Donald Trump. But it's not because they believe he shares their conservative Christian values. Rather, they agree with him that America is not as great as it once was, according to a new CNN/Kaiser Family Foundation poll. While black evangelicals are solidly against the GOP nominee, among white working-class evangelicals, about three in four -- 76% -- say they'd consider voting for Trump. Partisanship likely plays a big part in this, as half of white working-class evangelical Christians identify as Republicans. The majority -- 6 in 10 -- of voters in this group believe the US' better days are in the past and most are concerned that the country is becoming less Christian. Nearly 90% of working class whites who are evangelical Christians believe Christian values are under attack in America today. While most Christian groups -- 73% of mainline Protestants and 61% of Catholics -- share this view, only 41% of those with no religious preference believe these values are under attack. Trump often says he wants to "make America great again," and working-class whites are a core of his support, but that doesn't mean they don't question the faith of a man who once said he never asks God for forgiveness "When listening to him, he's not a Christian. He does not have any of the values that we have," said Buddy Mitchell, a 47-year-old from Arvada, Colorado, and owner of a flooring company. "I don't know of any redeeming quality of Donald Trump other than both Democrats and Republicans hate him," said Mitchell, who did not participate in the survey. "That's the only reason I like him: that the establishment doesn't like him." Christian values seen as under attack That dislike for the establishment is a strong point for Trump with this demographic. For many white working-class evangelicals, it's clear who is at fault for many of the country's issues: the federal government. White working-class evangelicals are also more likely than others to blame the federal government for the economic problems facing the working class. "I don't think that either candidate is taking Christian values into consideration," said Sandra Long, an 80-year-old lifelong Democrat. "Neither one of them is acting very Christian-like. Just a lot of things are said and done. It scares me." JUST WATCHED Feeling helpless in WV: 'We are the forgotten tribe' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Feeling helpless in WV: 'We are the forgotten tribe' 04:50 Long, a Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania, resident, is scared that society is becoming more secular and will be a less accepting place for people with more conservative Christian values. "I feel the country was founded on Christian principles. They came here to get away form being persecuted for their beliefs," she said. "And now, if our ministers don't marry a gay couple or refuse to marry a gay couple, they can be arrested and taken to jail." While same-sex marriage is legal, religious leaders are not required to marry gay couples. Darrell Pool, a 60-year-old from Lamar, Colorado, said he doesn't see his traditional Christian values honored by the leading candidates. "I don't see my values shaping the election. There's just a lot of mayhem," he said. "I think the values that were in the country's founding are leaving. The moral values are leaving daily." Many white working-class evangelicals have no confidence that either of the presidential candidates has the ability to return the country to their perception of its former glory. "I don't know where I am," said Long. "I'm so confused at this point and time. I don't believe either one of them should be in office. I don't believe either one should be running." Some have entertained third-party candidates. "I'm sick to my stomach. I cannot stand Hillary (Clinton) and I can't stand Trump, so for the first time in my life, I'm thinking of voting Libertarian or not voting," Mitchell said. For these voters, the lack of confidence in government is exemplified in the candidacy of Clinton, who has been in government for more than 20 years. "If you or I would have done what she did with those emails, we'd be in jail," Mitchell said. "But because she's the Democratic nominee, they don't hold politicians to the same standards that they hold the people." Many of the standards these voters want to see candidates follow are rooted in the Christian faith. Security also a concern But values aren't the only concerns of these voters. National security is also a major issue to many of these voters, many of whom have personal connections to the military. "All these refugees they want to bring in, that's really got me going," said Pool, who participated in the survey. "They have no idea who they're bringing in and we just keep having more attacks here." "I just think it's ludicrous and all it's for is so one party can have more voters," he said. The relationship between evangelicals and the refugee issue is a complicated one. Some of the biggest critics of Trump's proposed Muslim ban have been evangelicals. Christian organizations have been among the most active in helping resettle refugees, but that doesn't mean some among their flock aren't anxious. The majority -- 75% -- of white working-class evangelicals believe that recent immigrants from predominantly Muslim countries increase the risk of terrorist attacks in the US, a higher percentage than other working-class whites. "I say let's quit bringing these people in, period," Pool said. "I realize America is a melting pot and that's how America started in the first place, but we have a process here. Nobody says you can't come to this country. Come on in. Let's do it the right way."
Michael D'Antonio is the author of the new book "Never Enough: Donald Trump and the Pursuit of Success" (St. Martin's Press) and is due to be a guest on "CNN Newsroom" Monday in the 10 a.m. hour. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) Given a straighforward opportunity to disavow the most dangerous brand of hatred in American history, the man who has declared, "I'm, like, a really smart person" couldn't do it. "I don't know anything about what you're even talking about with white supremacy or white supremacists," said Donald Trump in a response to CNN's Jake Tapper. "So I don't know. I don't know -- did he endorse me, or what's going on? Because I know nothing about David Duke; I know nothing about white supremacists." The statement was classic Trump: a chopped salad made out of words. But the two parts were clear. "I know nothing about David Duke," he said. "I know nothing about white supremacists." (Trump later tweeted a disavowal.) Every literate American adult, and certainly anyone running for president, must know that Duke is the former leader of the Ku Klux Klan and that white supremacists promote a violently racist ideology that plagues America. The 1995 bombing of a federal building in Oklahoma City that killed 168 people, including 21 kids in a daycare center, was associated with if not inspired by white supremacy. Since 9/11 white supremacists and other domestic terrorists have carried out more deadly attacks on American soil than Muslim extremists. It was a white supremacist who killed nine people at a Bible study at a Charleston, South Carolina, church last summer. Concern about racist support for Trump arose last week when David Duke said on Facebook that he liked Trump's stands on certain issues and the way the candidate exposed "lies" perpetrated by the press and believed he will ensure "that White-Americans are allowed to preserve and promote their heritage and interests just as all other groups are allowed to do." When first informed of Duke's support on Friday, Trump didn't have any trouble recognizing the name. "David Duke endorsed me?" he said. "OK, all right. I disavow, OK?" This makes sense, given the fact that Duke is notorious for hate-mongering and Trump named him years ago when he explained why he dropped out of the old Reform Party. Back then, and again on Friday, he knew who Duke was and seemed to recognize that he's political poison. Trump's tune changed 48 hours before polls would open for Super Tuesday primaries, many of them in Southern states. Suddenly he was unable to place Duke's name and he didn't know a thing about the movement that keeps white racist extremism alive in America. This from a fellow who is famous for recalling every detail of every deal he ever made and who never forgets those who offend him. If Duke was so bad that his presence drove Trump out of the Reform Party, it's unlikely he's forgotten him. What's going on here? As someone who has spent many hours with Trump and devoted two years to piecing together the story of his life, I can tell you that Trump is not speaking out of ignorance. He is, as he says, "very smart," and he understands the effects of what he says. And he has been signaling where he stands when it comes to race for many years. Before declaring for president, Trump spent much of the Obama presidency as the loudest voice of the "birthers" who repeatedly claimed that Barack Obama was born, not in Hawaii, as documents prove, but abroad. And therefore he was not a U.S. citizen, and not a legitimate president, in Trump's eyes. Birtherism was a barely disguised effort to paint the first black president as an un-American other and was energized by racial animus. Trump played the game long after others disavowed it and went further, suggesting the President might not be a Christian, as he says, but perhaps instead a Muslim. The insinuation, like Trump's suggestion that the truth about Obama's college years was somehow clouded, was a divisive kind of gutter politics. Always comfortable going further than others, Trump was the man who responded to the arrest of five minority youths in the 1989 assault of a jogger in New York's Central Park with newspaper ads that said, "Bring Back The Death Penalty, Bring Back the Police." When Trump and I discussed the five -- who were coerced into false confessions but eventually cleared of the crime -- he wasn't interested in discussing any part of it except for his belief that they were bad characters who deserved no consideration for the years they spent in prison. The Trump record on race also includes the ridiculous assertion, made in a TV interview with Bryant Gumbel, that "A well-educated black has a tremendous advantage over a well-educated white in terms of the job market." Trump also appeared as a witness at a congressional hearing on Indian casinos -- they were his competitors -- and said, "Organized crime is rampant on Indian reservations." He then offered his belief that Native Americans at the hearing where he spoke "don't look like Indians to me, and they don't look like Indians to Indians." Trump's tendency to play with racial fire is a longstanding element of his style and personality. When he was a marginal political figure, no one dwelled much on this problem. But as he lurches toward the Republican nomination for president, it's important to understand that he always knows what he is saying and always acts with an intention in mind. He is, after all, a really smart person.
When Harry was baptized in 1984, he was given the name Henry Charles Albert David, making his full title “His Royal Highness (HRH) Prince Henry Charles Albert David of Wales” because his father, Charles, is the prince of Wales. But if he needed to use a surname for one reason or another, he could use Mountbatten-Windsor. That’s the name Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip decided upon for their direct descendants back in 1960. Philip, formerly a prince of Greece and Denmark, adopted the last name Mountbatten when he became a naturalized British citizen ahead of his wedding to Elizabeth in 1947; as for Windsor, Elizabeth’s grandfather King George V declared that to be the family and house name in 1917. (Prior to that, the British royal family did not have a formal surname; rather, they used their house or dynasty name). According to Koenig, the hyphenated surname was created for male-line descendants of the queen who do not bear the HRH prince or princess title. That’s why most of the royals you’re familiar with rarely, if ever, use it. Some royals opt to use their territorial designation as their last name instead, as both William and Harry did when they served in the military; at that time, they went by William Wales and Harry Wales.
(CNN) Egypt's security forces arrested well-known blogger and activist Wael Abbas in the early hours of Wednesday, his sister Rasha Abbas told CNN. Security forces stormed Abbas' house in the Egyptian capital's district of New Cairo, confiscating his laptop, phone and books as well as a toy gun, according to his sister. His latest post on Facebook read: "I'm being arrested." His sister said that the family has no information about his whereabouts. I am hearing that friend and well-known activist Wael Abbas has been arrested. A mutual friend says security forces broke into Wael's home in #Cairo , blindfolded him and arrested him. #Egypt Egyptian authorities did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment. Abbas is a high-profile blogger who has publicly advocated for a democratic transition in Egypt since the early 2000s. He was a leading voice in the Arab Spring protests of 2011 that saw the ouster of former President Hosni Mubarak. Abbas has also exposed cases of torture and has been critical of a continuing crackdown on dissent. Thousands have been arrested since a popularly supported military coup in 2013 deposed former President Mohammed Morsi and brought Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to power one year later. Hours before Abbas was arrested, a military court sentenced researcher Ismail al-Iskandarani to 10 years in prison for "obtaining and publishing military secrets, publishing false news and joining a banned organization," his lawyer Tarek Abdel Aal told CNN on Wednesday. JUST WATCHED Egyptian blogger on 'media crackdown' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Egyptian blogger on 'media crackdown' 03:18 Iskandarani has been in detention since 2015. He is a leading researcher and journalist on the restive Sinai Peninsula and has helped to shed light on the humanitarian situation there. The Egyptian government has cut off access to the Sinai as it battles and Islamist insurgency that includes a local ISIS affiliate. Thousands of civilians there are reported to have been caught in the crossfire and subjected to forced displacement, according to Human Rights Watch. Sisi told France 24 last October that there were no political detainees in Egypt and that "there are normal trial proceedings that are fair." In Iskandarani's case, Abdel Aal described an opaque judicial process. "The prosecution didn't explain what secrets he divulged. They only presented a number of articles and TV interviews to the court without explaining what's at fault in them," he said. Both Islamist and secular activists have been arrested in the Egyptian government's crackdown on dissent. Some have been subjected to torture and solitary confinement for extended periods of times, according to multiple reports by rights groups, including Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. Egyptian authorities consistently deny the use of the torture. In its most recent annual report, Amnesty International gave a scathing assessment of the country for its crackdown on dissent in recent years.
The Parent Curve offers a look at the norms and numbers around tough decisions parents face. Where are you on the curve? (CNN) Santa Claus is coming to town -- or so about 85% of young American children believe. In interviews, 85% of 4-year-olds said that they believed in Santa, 65% of 6-year-olds said that they believed, and 25% of 8-year-olds said that they believed. Those numbers were published in a small study in the American Journal of Orthopsychiatry in 1978. But researchers say those percentages of young children who believe in jolly old Saint Nick seem to have remained steady over the years. The Parent Curve offers a look at the norms and numbers around tough decisions parents face. Where are you on the curve? Research in the Journal of Cognition and Development in 2011 shows that 83% of 5-year-olds think that Santa Claus is real, the study's lead author, Jacqueline Woolley, wrote in The Conversation last year. "We have found in more recent studies that that number of 85% sounds about right," said Thalia Goldstein, assistant professor of applied developmental psychology at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia. "Children's belief in Santa starts when they're between 3 and 4 years old. It's very strong when they're between about 4 and 8," she said. "Then, at 8 years old is when we start to see the drop-off in belief, when children start to understand the reality of Santa Claus." Nearly three-quarters of Americans say they typically received Christmas Eve visits from Santa as children, and one in five adults says they are the parent or guardian of a child in their home who believes in Santa, according to a Pew Research Center study published in 2013. Outside the United States, how many children believe in Papa Noel? The percentage appears to be similar in some European countries. Of 161 parents in the United Kingdom, 92.5% thought Father Christmas was real for their children up to the age of 8, according to a research paper presented at the annual meeting of the European Early Childhood Education Research Association in Finland in 1999. It turns out that the more live Santa Clauses children are exposed to, the more likely they are to believe that he is the "real" Santa, according to a study published last year in the journal Cognitive Development Goldstein co-authored the small study with Woolley, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin. The study involved 77 children, 2 to 10 years old, who were interviewed after visiting a man dressed up as Santa Claus at a children's science museum in Norwalk, Connecticut. The interviews were conducted over the course of one week, before Christmas. The interviews revealed that 39.2% of the children believed that the man they visited was the same Santa who came down their chimneys. An additional 38.8% didn't believe that he was the same person but thought he also lived at the North Pole and could communicate with the real Santa, Goldstein said. Then, 13.8% said that the man was not Santa but that he shared characteristics with the real Santa, and 1.3% had a somewhat "adult belief," Goldstein said, in which they said that the man was not Santa and did not live at the North Pole but could communicate with the real Santa. A limitation of the study was that older children who do not believe in Santa were excluded from the sample of participants since they "may have been reluctant to accompany their parents to this event," the researchers wrote. "Age didn't predict whether or not they thought that live Santa was the real guy, and then we also found that what the parents were telling the children -- the amount of Santa activities and Santa promotion that the parents were engaging with -- also didn't affect whether or not the children believed that he was the real-life Santa," Goldstein said. "The only thing that affected their belief was how many other Santa Clauses they had interacted with that year," she said. On the other hand, age and cognitive development seem to predict when kids start to lose their belief in Santa, said Andrew Shtulman, a cognitive developmental psychologist and associate professor at Occidental College in Los Angeles. "It's not a coincidence that children stop believing in Santa during the early elementary school years, because that's a time when they are developing more sophisticated notions of what is possible and what is not," said Shtulman, who has led separate research on children's belief in Santa Claus JUST WATCHED Mila Kunis' daughter 'too logical' for Santa Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mila Kunis' daughter 'too logical' for Santa 03:07 "In one of our studies, we asked children to brainstorm a list of questions to ask Santa, and we compared the kinds of questions they brainstormed to their ability to distinguish possible events from impossible ones," Shtulman said. "We found that the better children did on our test of possibility judgment, the more skepticism they expressed in their questions," he said. For instance, Shtulman said, children would shift from asking factual questions such as "how tall is the North Pole?" or "what are your elves' names?" to more probing ones, such as "how do you fit inside chimneys?" and "how do you know whether I've been naughty or nice?" Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. As children move from belief in Father Christmas to doubt, most tend to feel proud that they have solved a sort of holiday puzzle, Goldstein said. "They now get to be part of this sort of more grown-up group of people that doesn't necessarily believe in Santa Claus," Goldstein said. "If a parent finds that their child stops believing in Santa and is really upset about it, there are other options," she said. "You can always talk about Santa Claus as being a spirit of giving. Or as a way to help others, or a way to think about people who maybe aren't as fortunate as you are."
“The collective silence by the left and its media allies is appalling,” Sanders said in a statement to The Wrap. “Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast, and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network.” TBS, which airs “Full Frontal,” is a part of media conglomerate Turner, owned by Time Warner. In a statement to HuffPost, Bee said: “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it.” Bee’s segment on her show featured her calling first daughter Ivanka Trump a “feckless cunt” for her inability to help stop her father’s immigration policies. “Let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless cunt!” Bee said. “He listens to you. Put on something tight and low-cut and tell your father to fucking stop it. Tell him it was an Obama thing and see how it goes.” The comments have received a lot of backlash on Twitter, with many drawing comparisons to the cancellation of Roseanne Barr’s show after she tweeted racist comments about former Obama aide Valerie Jarrett. Pay attention to how the media handles the Samantha Bee story after the Roseanne Barr story. — Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) May 31, 2018 Compare ABC’s reaction to Roseanne Barr’s tweet w TBS’s non-reaction to Samantha Bee and you’ll see a double-standard in action. There’s no uprising against Bee. Why? Because she is liberal. Because the MSM protects Obama and his aides, but not Trump. The hypocrisy is sickening. — Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) May 31, 2018 Waiting for the liberal outrage & firing of Samantha Bee for calling Ivanka Trump a feckless c$nt on air. — Liz Wheeler (@Liz_Wheeler) May 31, 2018 This is disgusting. How is this acceptable? And how are we expected to take any of these publications seriously if they gleefully repost something like this at the same time they (rightfully) condemn @therealroseanne? You know the saying Love is Love? Well Hate is Hate. https://t.co/YTjmZQ4zMV — Megyn Kelly (@megynkelly) May 31, 2018 The Samantha Bee and Roseanne controversies are just proving that there’s a clear double standard and certain people can say whatever they want and get away with it while others get punished for it Either let everyone voice their opinion no matter how bad or take away free speech — Jonny (@hereeesjonny) May 31, 2018 ABC canceled Barr’s “Roseanne” revival mere hours after news of Barr’s tweets spread. Sanders’ call to arms to TBS and Time Warner is particularly noteworthy. While hundreds called on ABC to act after Barr’s comments, there wasn’t a specific member of the White House asking for the private employer to handle internal matters at their whim. Bee isn’t the only female comedian to spark outrage from Sanders in recent months — Michelle Wolf drew ire from the press secretary and her supporters for her roast during April’s White House Correspondents’ Dinner. TBS and Time Warner did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.
A Muslim man named Jamal Momin, a migrant laborer, was allegedly assaulted by four men in a moving train in West Bengal after he failed to answer their questions about Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the national anthem. Momin was forced to say, "Bharat Mata Ki Jai." His co-passengers did nothing to help him. The man was reportedly on a moving train, on his way to Kaliachak in Malda district from Howrah on May 14, when he was assaulted, the Press Trust of India reported today. The men asked him questions about Modi, the national anthem, and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. "Who is the Prime Minister of India? Who is the chief minister of Bengal? What is our national anthem?," they asked, The Times of India reported. When he could not reply, the four men asked, "Who is Nawaz Sharif?" Then, they asked him, "Do you offer namaz?" When he replied in the affirmative, they said, "Shame on you. You offer namaz every day at a mosque but you don't know the national anthem." The Muslim man was forced to say, "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" before the four men disembarked at Bandel. Jamal was reportedly so scared that he did not even tell his wife about the incident. Five days later, on May 19, he left for Gujarat. A local NGO, Bangla Sankriti Mancha, has used the videos taken by other passengers in the train to file a complaint at the Kaliachak Police Station and an investigation is underway. Momin, who is now in Gujarat, told TOI, "I was not feeling well that day. So, I sat beside the window. But they forced me to leave that seat. I accepted it. The four youths then threw a volley of questions at me. I could answer some, but most I didn't know." "They began to abuse me, my family and my religion. No one in the compartment objected to the abuse," the labourer said. "They roughed me up several times. I was reduced to tears. This went on till they got down at Bandel," he said.
Silvia Marchetti is a Rome-based freelance reporter and writer. She covers finance, economics, travel and culture for a wide range of media, including MNI News, CNN Travel, News.com.au and Spear's magazine. The opinions in this article belong to the author. (CNN) Italy's protracted political chaos risks dealing a heavy blow to the European Union -- and Europe's political unity as a whole. Sergio Mattarella, the normally politically neutral head of state, has prevented the populist alliance of the Five Star Movement and the League from forming an obscure, anti-European government. Instead, he asked Carlo Cottarelli , a former International Monetary Fund official, to form an interim government of technocrats. This means Italy is headed for a second election. The outcome of that election could be more dangerous than the first inconclusive vote held March 4 , which delivered this coalition that was unfit to rule in the first place. For the first time in Italy's political history, the electoral campaign's battle lines will be clearly drawn -- and it will not be on domestic issues. Europe is the battlefield, and there will be repercussions at a pan-European level. The next vote is bound to turn into a proxy referendum between pro-Europe/pro-euro mainstream forces, and the antagonist alliance of the two populist parties that won the most votes in March -- the League and the Five Star Movement. But what if at the next elections these two parties secure an even larger share of votes? Such a result in Italy, one of the founding members of the European Union, would likely lead to this anti-EU sentiment spreading further throughout Europe, threatening European unity at a very delicate moment. JUST WATCHED Italian President to appoint non-political PM Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Italian President to appoint non-political PM 01:01 Next year, European parliamentary elections take place, which carry the risk of strengthening Europe's populist parties and delaying crucial reforms aimed at strengthening the future of European governance. This is something nobody -- neither in Italy nor the rest of Europe -- can afford. That's why the ball now is in Italy's court. The fates of Europe and Italy are closely linked. The political manifesto that forged post-war integrated Europe -- the Ventotene Manifesto -- was written on a tiny former prison isle off Rome's coast by a group of anti-Fascists, who later became founding fathers of the EU. How could the cradle of Europe become its own grave? Brexit remains a deep wound, but the UK's integration has always been limited. It has never been part of the Schengen area or of the eurozone. Italy's potential snub to Europe would be much more severe. Were the populists to win by a wide margin, the result would rock the fundamentals of the wider continent. The monetary union and the Common Market, two of the greatest achievements of the European project since the end of World War II, would be under serious threat. Italy is Europe's third-largest economy. As such, it is a pillar of an integrated economic area, which it is both central to and relies upon. If Italy goes down, so could Europe. But this nightmare scenario could prompt something more positive. With such clear battle lines being drawn, more pro-European political forces might team up against the populists. The Democratic Party, defeated at the March 4 elections, will get a second chance to boost its consensus. The new vote could help rebuild Italy's fragmented center-left and bring back into the game former Democratic leader and premier Matteo Renzi, who stepped down from office after losing the 2016 constitutional referendum I hold hope that we might see a pro-European movement in Italy, as we did in France in the face of nationalist populism . And this isn't merely wishful thinking. When it comes to it, the man on the street will be able to weigh the pros and cons of holding tight to Europe, or walking away.
Meghan Markle’s father, Thomas, may not be attending Saturday’s wedding due to health problems, but there’s a possible surrogate willing to walk her down the aisle. He’s 83-year-old Terry Hutt and he may be the British royal family’s biggest fan. For the past few days, Hutt has been camping out near Windsor Castle in hopes of getting a peek at the couple on their way to the royal wedding. Hutt’s so excited for Prince Harry and Markle’s marriage that he is willing to give up his spot outside if his services are needed. “I’m over the moon to think Harry’s getting married; we’ve all been waiting a long time for him,” Hutt said, according to Inside Edition. “Again, with what’s going on [with Markle’s father], it won’t stop them from being married, even if I have to take her up the aisle, I’ll take her up for him.” So far, the smart money is on Markle choosing her mother, Doria Ragland, to walk her down the aisle. But if Hutt’s services are needed in a pinch, he will be easy to spot since he’s dressed in a suit covered with Union Jacks.
Story highlights Minaj was asked on social media if they were dating He responded Sunday while in concert (CNN) Is there a new rap supercouple? Tongues started wagging that Nicki Minaj was dating fellow rap star Emimen after the song "Big Bank," which features a guest appearance with Minaj, dropped Friday. "Told them I met Slim Shady, bag the Em/ Once he go black, he'll be back again," she raps. Minaj added fuel to the fire when she posted a video on Instagram with her lipsyncing the lyric. When a follower asked her in the comments if she was dating the rapper, Minaj responded "Yes." Read More
David A. Andelman, visiting scholar at the Center on National Security at Fordham Law School and director of its Red Lines Project, is a contributor to CNN and columnist for USA Today. Author of "A Shattered Peace: Versailles 1919 and the Price We Pay Today," he formerly was a foreign correspondent for The New York Times and CBS News in Asia and Europe. Follow him on Twitter @DavidAndelman. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) North Korea's leading nuclear negotiator, Kim Yong Chol and his congenial American counterpart, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, share several common lines on their resumés. Both began their careers as officers in their respective armies, Pompeo finishing first in his class at West Point. Both eventually had leadership roles in their respective nations' parliaments. And both headed their countries' intelligence agencies. Now both will be functioning effectively as the Sherpas picking their way to an on-again, off-again summit, so deeply desired yet apparently feared by their nations' leaders, Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un. And the apparent congruencies of the two negotiators' resumes may be more apparent than real. By all indications, Kim Yong Chol, vice chairman of the ruling Workers' Party's Central Committee, and now in his seventies, may not a very nice man by any stretch of the imagination. Dig deep into his life and you will find elements that should be somewhat disquieting to Donald Trump and his team, who are hoping, with some apparent desperation, to reach a viable, sustainable deal that will bring an immediate end to North Korea's nuclear arsenal and aspirations. There is nothing in Kim Yong Chol's past to suggest he would be delighted by any long-term plan to defang his nation or especially its military. JUST WATCHED Fareed: US desperate for North Korea summit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fareed: US desperate for North Korea summit 02:17 There are many in the North Korean hierarchy who have built their careers on the foundations of a strong, unassailable military force. And the heart of that -- now that Kim Jong Un has finally achieved the nuclear capability his father and grandfather had lusted after -- is the existence of a deliverable nuclear deterrent. Read More
They're learning at a first grade level. Neat rows of students read the local language, Khmer, out loud. The 16-year-old off to the side stands out. He's the only one in the uniformed group wearing long sleeves in the sweltering heat. Phea Chantheng says he's afraid of the sight of his own hand. He doesn't even like to think about how the accident happened. At the Marist School for children with disabilities, outside Cambodia's capital Phnom Penh, the teachers have seen this kind of injury before. Usually the arms are amputated below the shoulder, sometimes below the elbow. "It's an obscene accident. It happens more than once on the same machines in some places," says Brother Terry Heinrich, one of the founders of the religious school. He counts about 20 students who have come through his classroom in about as many years with the tell-tale sign of "the accident." "They are pushing clay into a crusher, their hands are caught, dragged into the machine. Arms are crushed. They have to stand there while the machine is dismantled to get them out," says Heinrich. Chantheng kept his arm but he was left with a mangled hand. He was working in a brick factory when his feet slipped out from under him and his hand got caught. It happened two years ago, and 25 miles from the school a catholic mission helped get him into. The memory stings. He was 14 at the time at the time of the accident; his mother says that since the age of 11 he had been pitching in at the brick factory where his mother worked, loading bricks onto a cart and hauling them off to dry. JUST WATCHED Shackled by Debt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shackled by Debt 02:12 Spiraling debt Chantheng's injury earned him a new beginning, in the classroom. The rest of his family has stayed behind. His siblings live with his mother Mok Thy. After the accident, she wouldn't let them help out at the factory anymore, but when they're old enough Mok Thy imagines they'll have to start again. JUST WATCHED Child labor in Cambodia's brick kilns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Child labor in Cambodia's brick kilns 03:36 When she can't work anymore, she says they'll be responsible for paying off the debt she owes to the owner of the factory where she works. She says that 15 years ago she took a $12 loan from a brick factory owner that has ballooned to $2,800-worth of debt. Over the years, she moved between different brick-making factories. Each time, she says, the new owner bought the debt she owed the previous owner. And then she'd owe a little bit more. Like other brick kiln workers, she's paid by the brick. She says that much of her meager wages must go toward paying off the debt; there's barely any money to survive on. When there's not enough for necessities, she has to borrow more. "This is the life of a brick kiln worker," she says. To make more bricks, and earn more money, Mok Thy says it's typical for parents working at brick kilns to put their children to work alongside them. At brick factories outside of Phnom Penh, CNN saw children involved in the brick-making process. 'A sense of hopelessness' In 2016, A Cambodian NGO called LICADHO sent researchers to dozens of brick kilns outside of Phnom Penh after being contacted by a group of families whose children were injured in accidents similar to Chantheng's. "Often there's a sense of guilt [for the families and the children], there's a sense of hopelessness, there's depression, there's bullying by other kids and parents and other people who don't understand -- and there's lifetime pain depending on where the injury is," says Naly Pilorge, the deputy director of advocacy for LICADHO. In December 2016, LICADHO published a report determining that the risk of injuries to children in the kilns remains high. The same report alleges widespread abuses including child labor and bonded labor in the brick factories that are doing big business, fueling Cambodia's building boom. The US State Department considers bonded labor to be a form of modern slavery. Cambodia's Labor Ministry refutes the findings of the LICADHO report. Child labor and bonded labor are illegal under Cambodian law. The law isn't being enforced, according to Pilorge. "[entire families] are just working. Working nonstop. Whatever money they get barely covers their food. It doesn't make any difference towards reduction of their debt. "What we found is not only that children were working besides dangerous machinery but we were also finding out that entire families were coerced or forced or tricked into bonded labor." JUST WATCHED Working off debt in Cambodia's brick kilns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Working off debt in Cambodia's brick kilns 02:45 CNN visited brick kilns where workers said their debt to factory owners ranged from hundreds to thousands of US dollars. The going rate per brick is a fraction of a cent according to LICADHO. The equation makes it impossible for workers to pay down debt while earning enough for basics. But the Labor Ministry insists the illegal practice of debt bondage isn't flourishing in the kilns as LICADHO claims; in fact, the Ministry says the practice doesn't exist at all. "Debt bondage is the direct debt between employer and workers. This is debt borrowing," insists Veng Heang, director of the Labor Ministry's Child Labor Department. Veng calls it a legal system of advance loans, but he says the distinction from debt bondage is "confusing" and for that reason, the practice should stop. One brick kiln owner we spoke to on the outskirts on Phnom Penh told us all her workers owe her money, because she gives them advance loans for things like weddings and to cover the expense of births. "Their lives here are good because the bills are put on me," she says. "When they give birth, we pay; when they get married, we also pay. So their debts increase because they borrow our money." Veng also says a successful government campaign against child labor has wiped out the problem in the kilns entirely. The success, he says, started with a campaign to get children out of the kilns launched back in 2006. Six hundred government employees are assigned to inspect nearly 400 brick kilns. The Labor Ministry says they haven't identified a single case that qualifies as child labor since 2012. Children in the kilns During the week that a CNN crew spent filming at brick factories outside of Phnom Penh, we saw children involved with various steps of the brick-making process, in every factory we visited. We can't verify the ages of some of the children, or if the type of work they were doing would be considered illegal. All the children we met said they were helping out their families without being paid. A child working at a brick kiln outside Phnom Penh. The Labor Ministry responded by saying that workers may be older than they look and that while labor is illegal for children under 15, light work is allowed for children aged 12 and over. That's not the kind of work Chantheng was doing two years ago. His mother no longer works on the machine that scarred her son. She's moved on to another kiln where she spends her days hauling carts weighed down with bricks.
MONTREAL — Canadian shippers breathed a collective sigh of relief Wednesday after CP Rail reached a tentative agreement with its train crews to end a strike mere hours after it began. The Calgary railway and the Teamsters Canada Rail Conference reached a four-year deal and the union also completed a five-year agreement for the Kootenay Valley Railway. Full operations at both railways will resume across Canada early Thursday morning, the union said in a news release. "We believe this is a fair contract that our members can feel good about ratifying," said union president Doug Finnson. "I am personally very satisfied with what we have negotiated." A Canadian Pacific Railway employee walks along the side of a locomotive in a marshalling yard in Calgary. Railway CEO Keith Creel lauded the agreement as positive for 12,000 CP Rail employees, customers and the entire Canadian economy. "It is especially meaningful to achieve a four-year tentative agreement with our valued locomotive engineers and conductors, providing long-term stability for all parties involved," he said in a statement. "This is a significant step toward a renewed positive relationship growing forward together serving our customers and the Canadian economy." The tentative agreements must be ratified by Teamsters members over the coming months. Details of the agreement are being withheld pending ratification. Employment Minister Patty Hajdu thanked the parties for their commitment to the collective bargaining process. "This is further evidence that when employers, organized labour, and governments work together and respect the collective bargaining process, we get the best results for Canadians and for our economy," she said in a statement after the agreement was announced. Canadian Pacific railway workers picket at the company's intermodal terminal Wednesday. Agricultural and mining shippers, who had already been calling for government intervention, said they were pleased because the quick deal will minimize the impact on their sectors. "We were mentally prepared for a strike that would have gone on longer but perhaps it would be fair to say that we're relieved that it's been resolved as quickly as it has been," said Wade Sobkowich, executive director of the Western Grain Elevator Association, which represents the country's largest exporters. He said the less-than-day-long strike prevented about $20 million of grain from moving, something that should be made up. Sobkowich said he believed the two sides were under tremendous pressure from the federal government after the prime minister signalled Tuesday that it wasn't rushing to step in with back-to-work legislation or binding arbitration. "If there was going to be a resolution to this it was going to have to come from the negotiating table and I think that that put pressure on both sides to try and resolve things," Sobkowich said. A Canadian Pacific Railway employee walks along the side of a locomotive in a marshalling yard in Calgary. An agreement between CP Rail and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers representing 360 signalling workers just before Tuesday evening's strike deadline ensured that Canada's three largest cities and Via Rail would avoid chaos during Wednesday morning's commute. The quick resolution also suggested that the Teamsters may not have been far from a deal as well, added Todd Lewis, of the Agricultural Producers Association of Saskatchewan. "We're going to have a bad week of service this week but hopefully we can get everything back to normal and with the new legislation that's been put forward we can get some improved service," he said in an interview. Lewis believes Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's comments suggesting the government wasn't going to intervene put extra pressure on the railway. "Back-to-work legislation is a two-edged sword," he said. "It does impact a settlement but I think the signals were given that maybe the railroads wouldn't have been happy with the settlement that would have been imposed this time." Trudeau's comments were a little unsettling, said Pierre Gratton, CEO of the Mining Association of Canada, who assumed that the government would intervene because of the negative consequences for the mining sector and the Canadian economy as a whole. "What was going on behind the scenes was much more intense than met the eye," Gratton said. The Conservative federal government was more aggressive with unions during the last two strikes. Train crews ended a brief walkout in 2015 and agreed to arbitration after the Harper government warned of back-to-work legislation. Three years earlier, federal back-to-work legislation was enacted to end a 10-day strike. Gratton wouldn't say which approach he believes is more successful. "I don't really care how it's resolved. We just can't have our members not able to get the materials in or out so we're just delighted, relieved. Also on HuffPost:
Bethesda, MD (CNN) Grand Champion pitmaster Stan Hays takes barbecue seriously. For seven years, he and thousands of volunteers have been sharing their cooking skills and camaraderie with those in need through his nonprofit, Operation BBQ Relief , providing meals for disaster victims and first responders. "Barbecue is comfort food," Hays said. "Disasters are what we do, but our passion is helping people. ... For us, that's about both feeding those who are hungry and honoring veterans and those in the military." Thursday, Hays and his team put their grilling skills to use at the Invincible Spirit Festival, an annual event that honors military service members and their families, hosted by the Gary Sinise Foundation. Celebrity chef Robert Irvine, whose foundation assists with the event, invited Hays' group to be part of it. Among those in attendance were wounded and ill service members being treated at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. JUST WATCHED US troops get BBQ feast fit for a king Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US troops get BBQ feast fit for a king 00:31 For Hays, it's a chance to show appreciation to those who've sacrificed a great deal in service to the country. It's also a valuable opportunity for his volunteers to practice working together as they would in a disaster situation. Read More
Los Angeles (CNN) Fifty-two former patients of a gynecologist who treated thousands of women at the University of Southern California have reported they may have been victims of inappropriate and possibly criminal behavior, police said Tuesday. Police estimate Dr. George Tyndall may have seen 10,000 patients and they think there could be more victims among women who were examined by Tyndall. "We wanted to personally outreach to those who may have been impacted and believe they have been the victim of criminal conduct," Assistant Chief Beatrice Girmala said. The initial reports span from about 1990 to 2016, roughly the same time Tyndall was at the school in Los Angeles, Deputy Chief Justin Eisenberg said. Tyndall is being sued by several former patients, who accuse him of sexual misconduct and using racist language. Read More
Story highlights Celebs had been calling for action against Barr One star tweeted both praise and a promo (CNN) On Tuesday, Roseanne Barr had plenty to say on Twitter and Twitter had plenty to say back. ABC canceled the "Roseanne" reboot hours after the star's racist tweets. (Prior to the cancellation announcement, Barr apologized and announced she would be leaving Twitter.) News of the show being canceled had many hailing the network, in particular Channing Dungey, who became the first African-American president of ABC Entertainment Group in 2016. For the record, this is Channing Dungey. Sitting on top of your world like a Queen in full judgement of your garbage and taking it out. #Roseanne pic.twitter.com/GxEP2B61uq — Ava DuVernay (@ava) May 29, 2018 "For the record, this is Channing Dungey," director Ava DuVernay tweeted along with a photo of Dungey. "Sitting on top of your world like a Queen in full judgment of your garbage and taking it out. #Roseanne." Read More
Jordan Peterson loves telling marginalized people not to demand assistance. The professor, author and lecturer has amassed a significant fan base in the last couple of years for this anti-PC philosophy, and now pulls in at least C$100,000 each month from Patreon alone, through donations from more than 9,800 fans. There is a group, however, that Peterson believes does have a legitimate grievance necessitating outside support. Jordan Peterson during a lecture at the University of Toronto on Jan. 10, 2017. The right to sex In a recent New York Times article, Peterson was asked about Alek Minassian, who was charged with 10 counts of first-degree murder and 16 counts of attempted murder after using his rental van as a battering ram on Toronto's streets. Minassian pledged allegiance to the "incel movement," which the Times describes as a "male supremacist movement made up of people — some celibate, some not — who believe women should be treated as sexual objects with few rights." Peterson said that, "[Minassian] was angry at God because women were rejecting him." He added that "no one" cares about men like Minassian, which he claims is a problem for all of society. He concluded that, "The cure for that is enforced monogamy," implying the state should intervene in some manner to ensure men like Minassian are guaranteed to have a partner. An example of how this could work in action, as proposed in a notorious blog post by a Croatian incel, is the government paying women to go on dates with men. Peterson has since claimed he just meant monogamy should be promoted as a norm. However, as writer Alicia Elliott pointed out, this is already the case because, "Marriage is socially viewed as a measure of personal success, rewarded by the government with tax benefits, cheating is frowned upon [and] you aren't allowed to marry more than one person at a time." Peterson's past comments on this topic also suggest he's calling for the state to get involved. Could "casual" sex necessitate state tyranny? The missing responsibility has to be enforced somehow... — Jordan B Peterson (@jordanbpeterson) December 17, 2016 This has been met with justified disgust by many. His fans, however, seem to be OK with his statement. This is because while incels like Minassian are outliers, they don't start that way. They reach that point after going down a pipeline of radicalization to which many men are susceptible, including Peterson's fans. Instead of challenging this radicalization, Peterson has helped legitimize the demands from the most extreme figures. Not-so "nice guys" The radicalization starts when men self-identify as "nice guys." These men are everywhere. I can guarantee you've either met one, had to deal with one or been one. I used to write these men off as being misguided, and they definitely are, but I've come to realize they're actually dangerous. "Nice guys" are men who aren't having as much "success" with women as they'd like, and mistakenly attribute this to being "nice." Robert Glover, a marriage and family therapist, told The Independent that "nice guys" perform "kind" acts for women in an attempt to form "covert contracts" with them, meaning: I do nice things for you, and in return, you owe me affection and sex. Their "kindness" is not genuine, but rather a tool. Even if these men were genuinely nice, it doesn't entitle them to sex. Nothing does. Could "casual" sex necessitate state tyranny? The missing responsibility has to be enforced somehow... — Jordan B Peterson (@jordanbpeterson) December 17, 2016 These men attempt to undermine the autonomy of women, portraying them as gullible and stupid for supposedly dating "assholes" instead of "nice guys." The "nice guys" fail to do any introspection beyond self-pity. They attack women instead of confronting their insecurities, questioning what's preventing them from approaching intimacy in a healthy way and doing something to remedy these issues. This is because doing so would require effort they aren't willing to put in. Yet they still expect the targets of their affection to like them, because they've adopted the misogynist expectation that women should change to accommodate men's inadequacies. Some of these men will eventually begin working on themselves, but will fail to change their view of dating. They still believe assholes are the only ones who have "success" with women, so they decide to become assholes, too. When they speak about this shift, they'll bemoan the termination of their non-existent kindness, and blame women again. At this point, these men often try manipulative pick-up artist tactics, which they see as a shortcut to "winning the game" without needing any sort of change in mentality. When this doesn't work, the men can seek out even worse communities, all part of the so-called "manosphere." David Futrelle, who has monitored the subculture for more than eight years, describes it as a "loose collection of blogs, message boards, and other sites" that are run by pick-up artists, Men's Rights Activists, male separatists and others. Incels, which Futrelle labels as "easily the scariest" group in the "manosphere," mark the last stop. The self-pitying and disdain for women that kickstarted the pipeline of radicalization becomes solidified, and gets turned into the militant ideology connected with this organized movement. Elliot Rodger, a Santa Barbara City College dropout who killed six people and injured 14 others in 2014, is a prime example of someone who went down this path, and it's not a coincidence he's seen as a hero by the incel community. Normalizing hatred Peterson believes "enforced monogamy" would save women's lives by making men such as Minassian and Rogers less violent. In reality, this is just a dystopian form of appeasement that won't work, and shouldn't be attempted regardless. Peterson enables the pipeline of radicalization by validating the worldview of "nice guys" at the beginning, and legitimizing the demands of incels at the end. Consequently, "nice guys" and incels are celebrating Peterson, talking about him as if he's a lobbyist advocating on their behalf, paid for by their Patreon dollars. Peterson's stance is unfortunate, because he has a great deal of influence among younger men, which he claims he's used to prevent them from becoming part of the far-right. Yet instead of saving men from radicalization, he's normalizing their radical views, to the applause of his fans and the horror of those who have to interact with them. Also on HuffPost:
Story highlights Lewis joked about his wedding on Twitter He starred as Neville Longbottom (CNN) It looked to be a magical wedding for Matthew Lewis. The actor, who portrayed Neville Longbottom in the "Harry Potter" films, recently married his girlfriend, Angela Jones. He joked about it on Twitter. Not only did I miss @ArcticMonkeys in LA but they were performing in Italy at the same time we were there and my wife made me get married instead. Fuming. pic.twitter.com/VEZfTkizBa — Matthew Lewis (@Mattdavelewis) May 28, 2018 "Not only did I miss @ArcticMonkeys in LA but they were performing in Italy at the same time we were there and my wife made me get married instead," he tweeted with a wedding photo of him and Jones. "Fuming." Lewis has documented his love for Jones on his Instagram account. Read More
(CNN) The US announced Wednesday that it would rebrand the command responsible for overseeing US military operations in Asia, a move that comes amid heightened tensions with China over the militarization of the South China Sea. US Pacific Command will now be called US Indo-Pacific Command, Secretary of Defense James Mattis said while speaking at a change of command ceremony in Hawaii, where the command's headquarters is located. "In recognition of the increasing connectivity of the Indian and Pacific Oceans today we rename the US Pacific Command to US Indo-Pacific Command," Mattis said. "It is our primary combatant command, it's standing watch and intimately engaged with over half of the earth's surface and its diverse populations, from Hollywood, to Bollywood, from polar bears to penguins," Mattis said of the command. Adm. Harry Harris, who oversaw US military operations in the region until Wednesday, has been tapped by President Donald Trump to serve as the US ambassador to South Korea. Adm. Phillip Davidson will now lead the Indo-Pacific Command, which oversees some 375,000 US military and civilian personnel. Read More
John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion who focuses on climate change and social justice. Follow him on Snapchat , Facebook and email . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. Atlanta (CNN) Before I launch into the argument for making all restrooms in the United States gender neutral -- that is, removing "men's" and "women's" labels -- I want to show you a photo. This is James Parker Sheffield. Now a truly ridiculous question: Which restroom do you think he should use? Men's or women's? In the United States at the moment, the legal answer depends on location. If Sheffield is in North Carolina, it's illegal for him to use a public men's restroom. Since he's a transgender man -- his birth certificate has an "F" on it -- he has to use the women's. If he's at home in Atlanta, he can use the men's. "It's now the law for me to share a restroom with your wife," Sheffield wrote on Twitter along with his selfie. He posted that message in March, only hours after North Carolina passed a law making it illegal for transgender people to use public restrooms that correspond with their true gender identities. As it's written, Sheffield would have to use the lady's room or break the law. That's absurd, as the selfie and tweet make clear. Sheffield is a 36-year-old man who lives in Decatur, Georgia. He has a scruffy beard and a receding hairline, which he jokingly calls a "reverse fade." If he walked into a lady's restroom he'd likely be met with stares or screams or worse. But you know what else is absurd? The idea that Sheffield -- or anyone else -- should have to choose a male or female restroom at all. And, beyond that, that any of us would feel entitled to decide someone else's gender for them -- and, consequently, where they can and can't pee. This isn't a binary gender world. People don't fit neatly into the "M" and "F" boxes. It's time our public restrooms reflected that. The fairest way to do so is to desegregate restrooms by sex, and that means eliminating the men's and women's rooms in favor of "all gender" restrooms. Think that's an overreaction? Take a quick look at the history of bathroom politics in the United States. We've tried time and again to control who we sit and stand next to at the toilet. In the 1960s, black civil rights activists were killed for trying to use "whites only" bathrooms. In the 1980s, gay men were harassed because the public wrongly assumed they could catch HIV-AIDS from a toilet. (AIDS was viewed then as a gay man's disease). Restrooms weren't required to be accessible to people with wheelchairs until the Americans with Disabilities act of 1990. And now, some cities and states are trying to keep transgender people out. The only justification is bigotry and ignorance. You might think that allowing a transgender person to use the restroom of their choice is a workable solution. It's a first step. But Sheffield and others who don't conform to gender norms face discrimination even when they're legally allowed to choose which restroom to use. Seventy percent of transgender people surveyed in Washington, for example, a city with progressive laws allowing people to use either restroom, reported "verbal harassment, assault and being denied access to public restrooms" because of their identities, according to a report from the Williams Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles . Further, 54% reported medical problems "like dehydration, urinary tract infections, kidney infections and other kidney problems" because they avoided using restrooms entirely. Sheffield told me he plans his days around where he can and can't pee. "I almost never go to the restroom in a place I haven't been at least once before," he told me. He cuts appointments short and avoids going out simply to avoid peeing in public. Sometimes he'll find the one stall in a men's room is occupied, or out of order. Other times he sits on the toilet for longer than necessary because he worries it's suspicious a man would sit down to urinate. "It's not a good feeling to be a grown-up and wondering, 'Am I going to make it to a restroom on time -- and how do you explain it if you don't,'" he said. Such fears apply not only to transgender people but also those who don't meet our rigid gender norms. In 2013, I met a female middle school student in Mississippi , for example, who told me her teachers wouldn't let her use the girl's restroom because she had short hair and wore hoodies. She looked too boyish. JUST WATCHED Young and out in Mississippi Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Young and out in Mississippi 03:15 Gendered restrooms support these biases. "We need a restroom revolution in this country," said Kathryn Anthony, an architecture professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. I agree. And there are simple places to start. Restaurants and small businesses with two single-unit restrooms simply can paint over the "M" and "W" on their doors and -- ba-da-bing! -- they're gender inclusive. No one's harmed as long as we men stop peeing on the toilet seat. Philadelphia recently made that concept law for single-stall bathrooms. Other governments and businesses should follow. (And if you're a business that is considering this sort of move, please send me a tweet ). Then, bigger leaps: The International Building Code should suggest all-gender restrooms become the norm, or at least be included, in larger businesses and public establishments. (That idea comes from Terry Kogan, a law professor at the University of Utah.) City, state and federal governments also could legislate these restrooms into existence, too. It won't happen immediately, but new construction and renovations could be subject to our updated understanding of which types of bathrooms are safest for everyone. That's the precedent set by the Americans with Disabilities Act, Kogan said. Harvey Molotch, a professor of sociology at New York University and co-editor of the book "Toilet: public restrooms and the politics of sharing," outlined for me what he considers to be the Holy Grail of restrooms. Walk in and you'd see a long line of private toilet stalls, with floor-to-ceiling doors. On the other side would be a row of communal sinks. Anyone is free to use any stall -- and there might be a row of urinals tucked away somewhere to the side. The urinals could be left out of some restrooms, but they should be kept when possible, Molotch said, because they're much more water-efficient than sit-down toilets. All this sounds wildly inoffensive to me. And it's already happening. The Cooper Union, a college in New York, announced on March 18 that it is removing gender identification from restrooms on campus and opening single-occupancy toilets up for anyone's use. "We have always been ahead of our time and we must continue being leaders on issues of social justice," Bill Mea, acting president, wrote in an email to the campus The Urban Justice Center, also in New York, made a similar move a decade ago. "I'm delighted to be able to share that our experiences have been wholly positive," the center's executive director, Doug Lasdon, and a development associate, Hugh Ryan, wrote in a recent op-ed in the Washington Post . "To this day, we have not received a single complaint. Not one in a decade. Nor have any incidents of violence or harassment been reported." There's little counterargument other that bias and squeamishness. Sheffield, the transgender man in Georgia, doesn't expect the all-gender restroom revolution to occur anytime soon. "If we could go to sleep tonight and wake up and all the bathrooms were gender neutral -- great! But it's not practical," he said. "It's not going to happen that way." In the meantime, he said, a little courteousness would help. "We can't hold it," he said. "Trans people have to pee multiple times a day, just like everyone else." Currently, there are only two places Sheffield feels comfortable peeing. One's at home. The other's at work. And that's because it's labeled "all gender restroom."
White, Working Class and Worried is a CNN partnership with the Kaiser Family Foundation -- an extensive survey of white, working-class Americans and voters, who form a backbone of the support for Donald Trump. Watch Anderson Cooper 360 and CNN.com for reports throughout the week. About the survey The CNN/KFF Poll was conducted by telephone August 9-September 5 among 1,614 adults, including 701 who were identified as working-class whites -- white non-Hispanic adults who do not hold a four-year degree and, if under age 25, are not currently enrolled in school. Results for all working-class white voters have a margin of sampling error of +/-5 percentage points; it is 6 points for results among white working-class voters who support Trump. Full poll results
(CNN) We are all familiar with the negative images of girls and women in movies and other media -- and how ubiquitous they are. From the physical portrayal of women as ultra-thin, super sexy and scantily clad to the sexualized roles they often play, it's enough to make you wish you could put your daughters in a bubble to shield them. Of course, you can't. Even that "Prince Charming" narrative, in which their lives are not complete until they meet the right guy and that guy decides to love them in return, is everywhere. But what about the positive role models our girls are seeing? Certainly, the #MeToo movement has called attention to the need to create more substantial roles for women of all ages on the big and small screens and to get more women behind the scenes in director and screenwriting roles. Even before the past six months when women's voices have been heard in ways they haven't been before, there were signs -- exciting signs -- of shifting portrayals of young women, even in children's programming. Research shows that kids develop stereotypes at early ages. A Common Sense Media analysis of more than 150 articles, interviews and books and other research found that kids between the ages of 7 and 10 start to attribute certain qualities to women and men, such as that women are emotional and men are aggressive. Let me say that one more time. Between 7 and 10. Helping young girls and boys during these ages see realistic portraits of girls and boys can have enormous benefits, which brings me to "Andi Mack," Disney Channel's No. 1 show in video on demand. The show just wrapped its second season and has been renewed for a third. Sofia Wylie, left, and Peyton Elizabeth Lee of "Andi Mack" on Disney Channel. Think about the storyline, which is uncharted territory for mainstream children's programming: The main character, Andi, learns that the person she thought was her older sister for 13 years is actually her mother and that the two people she thought were her parents are actually her grandparents. Andi grapples with these life-changing circumstances with the support of her two best friends: the gender-stereotype-bashing Buffy, who believes she is as strong -- or stronger -- than any of the boys, and Cyrus, who has only recently shared with his friends that he is gay. My girls, ages 10 and 11, and I watch the show -- together -- every Friday night. We recently had a chance to sit down with the show's creator and three of its stars. 'A girl can do anything a boy can do' TerrI Minksy, the creator and executive producer of "Andi Mack," wanted to create a show that mothers could watch with their daughters. She said she didn't create the characters with female empowerment in mind but very much was focused on the point of view of the girl, because girlhood is when girls begin to get a sense of their own power or lack thereof. "There's always this 'you can grow up to be whatever you want,' but we haven't seen a female president in the United States. We don't see female faces when you're looking at anything where decisions are being made," said Minsky, who made the pilot with a predominantly female team. "I just feel like it has to start with the kids as represented in the shows as having the power over their world, and hopefully that translates to people watching it without specifically calling it female power." Sofia Wylie plays Buffy, who tries out for and makes the boys' basketball team (she also ends up tutoring the captain of the team). Sofia, 14, believes that her character can serve as an empowering role model to girls who watch. "I would definitely say Buffy sends a message that a girl can do anything a boy can do and there's really no difference," said Sofia, also an accomplished dancer who has performed on stage with Justin Bieber and on "America's Got Talent." Sofia Wylie with her military mom on the show "Andi Mack." "So many people say, 'Oh, yeah, boys are just like stronger,' and when a boy says that, I'm going to contain myself now," she says to laughter as she indicates how frustrated that statement makes her feel. "It's not true. If a woman wants to put their mind to something, they can be just as intelligent and just as strong physically and mentally in every way. They can be even better than a man." Even today, in 2018, a woman who is competitive -- especially in the workplace -- may be viewed differently than a man. A man may be considered assertive, a woman aggressive. Sofia says her character tackles that double standard as well. "People think if you're competitive, that means you're mean," she said. "No, she's competitive for a separate reason, because she's been told that she has to be strong." In one episode, we learn that Buffy feels she needs to always be strong to help her cope when her mom, who is in the military, is away during months-long deployments. A story line with #MeToo resonance One of the recurring storylines that also tackles gender stereotypes head-on is Andi's crush on the handsome, athletic and very popular Jonah Beck. During season one and the first half of season two, Andi is basically obsessed with Jonah. At some point, it appears they may actually be boyfriend and girlfriend in the way 13-year-olds innocently begin relationships. She makes him a bracelet. She beams when she sees him. But he never seems to truly understand Andi and never does for Andi all the things she does for him. And then, Andi has had enough. With the support of her friends Buffy and Cyrus and her mom, Bex, she finally decides to tell Jonah that she has been obsessed with him and that she can no longer continue doing what she has been doing. It is the moment when, I would argue, many women watching (and many who have experienced #MeToo moments) ask themselves, "Why didn't I say that when I was in a similar situation?" " allowfullscreen> Lilan Bowden, who plays Bex, Andi's independent and individualistic mother, says she wishes she had "Andi Mack" when she was a girl. Instead, the shows she watched all repeated the same story line: The girl has a crush on the boy, the boy finally says he likes her back, and they get together. "That was the message that I felt like I received over and over again: Just do the nice thing. If you're nice and you keep being nice and you don't stop being nice, eventually, you'll get what you want," Bowden said. "And to have that character to say, 'I was nice, and you didn't appreciate it because you're not nice enough back to me' was huge." Lilan Bowden, right, plays Andi's mother on the show "Andi Mack." Minsky said the episode was written more as a natural progression of Andi's character and less in response to the #MeToo movement. When Andi expresses herself to Jonah, she's the one who is in charge for the first time, said Minsky, who also created "Lizzie McGuire," a live-action and animated series that was also a Disney Channel hit. "It's always the girl giving and embarrassing herself and putting herself out there and taking chances, and the boy's sitting back, and you don't know how he feels ... and then she finally expresses herself, and he's like 'Oh, wow, I really enjoy that you're obsessed with me,' and I kind of feel, 'yeah, I bet you did.' " (In another sign of the show's relatable nature, it tackles anxiety when Jonah has a panic attack after Andi tells him she is moving on.) Peyton Elizabeth Lee, who plays Andi, said she, Sofia and Bowden cheered when they read that episode because it was a sign that Andi was "finally finding her voice." "Because she's just been so caught up in 'Jonah's cute, and he's fun, and he has so many friends, and he's popular, and he's athletic and whatever,' but when it really comes down to it, he wasn't giving her enough credit for everything she was doing for him," said Peyton, 13, who has appeared on ABC's "Scandal" and "Shameless" on Showtime. "I think she was realizing that she's worth more, so it was a really exciting thing ... where she's saying 'I was obsessed with you,' and it's Andi realizing that she doesn't need him to feel complete." Gender equality in media? Long way to go There is no question that we need to see more realistic and authentic female characters on television and in film. Research commissioned by the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in the Media in 2014 shows how far we need to go. It found that the percentage of female characters in the work force in TV and film was less than 25%, when women make up just about half of the actual work force. Fictional male judges and lawyers outnumbered female characters in those same roles 13 to 1; the breakdown of men to women was 7.6 to 1 when it came to characters in computer science and engineering. We know that when you see it, you can be it. In a survey of 1,000 women in the United States and the United Kingdom, conducted by the Davis Institute and J. Walter Thompson and unveiled in 2017, 71% of respondents in the US and 63% in the UK said that if we saw more corporate leader characters who were women, it would make it easier for women to become leaders in the corporate sector. Sixty-four percent of respondents in the US and the UK said that seeing more female characters as politicians would make it easier for women to succeed in politics. Bowden, who also regularly performs improv and sketch comedy, hopes shows like "Andi Mack" are a marker for what is to come. When she got to Hollywood and was auditioning, there was a very limited selection of roles for women, she said. "It's almost like a paying of dues where ... you're pretty much just the eye candy," she said. "I didn't want to be a model. I wanted to be an actor, but there's so many roles that are written for women where they just kind of pigeonhole you into being a model. "This show is all these dynamic female characters that aren't relying on beauty at all, and that's not an experience I felt like I had when I was first auditioning," she said. With surveys showing that girl confidence dips around puberty , having strong female early-teenage role models who speak truthfully and aren't afraid to stand up for what they believe can only be a positive. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "I think you can take so many things away (from the show) but just being confident in yourself," Sofia told my daughters. "I think that's the best thing about all of our characters is, we're all ourselves." Added Peyton, "A lot of shows showcase if you're just nicer, it all works out. If you're nice, you get friends. You have a boyfriend, but it's just not like that, and you have to find that balance of being nice, but being careful. ... You have to figure out which way you want to go."
Terence Moore is an Atlanta-based national sports columnist and commentator. He's a CNN sports contributor and a visiting professor of journalism at Miami University in Ohio. Follow him on his website at Tmooresports.com . The views expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) By adopting a policy that could fine teams for players on the field who don't stand during the National Anthem , the NFL owners have settled on a highly questionable approach to the issue that President Donald Trump used as a battering ram against the league. And they failed to seize on a much better policy that would have taken the issue off the table. The NFL has spent months agonizing over players refusing to stand during the National Anthem, but solutions were everywhere. Instead, the league's owners ignored the best one on Wednesday to worsen an issue that Trump used last season to help tweet the league into controversy When those NFL owners began their yearly spring meetings on Monday in Atlanta, after months of criticism over their league's handling of protests by players during the National Anthem to highlight social injustice, they discussed everything from assessing 15-yard penalties while fining players for kneeling during "The Star-Spangled Banner" to creating a wild, wild West approach by allowing all 32 teams to make their own rules. By Wednesday, they'd lost their minds -- or possibly just panicked -- and agreed unanimously to give players and others associated with NFL franchises the option of remaining in their locker room for the anthem. Those owners added that, if players and others choose to take the field for the playing of the National Anthem, they can't sit or kneel or do anything else that doesn't involve standing -- or else. Or else what? In its statement, the NFL left that part totally unclear. According to the new policy , players and other franchise people who don't "show respect" during the National Anthem will cause their team to get fined. How much is the fine, and what do the owners mean when they say you must "show respect"? And why did the players union leadership proclaim during a statement that it would "challenge any aspect" of the new policy "that is inconsistent with the collective bargaining agreement"? Nothing NFL owners did Wednesday will make those legal matters (or any others on the horizon from players) go away. In addition, there is little incentive under this new policy for a player with deep convictions not to kneel or to sit anyway during the National Anthem. Whatever the fine, the players won't have to pay it, and NFL owners aren't exactly in soup lines. The league just approved the sale of the Carolina Panthers to hedge-fund manager David Tepper for a record $2.27 billion , and he's paying most of it in cash. I'm guessing the players association will discover more than a few things with this new policy that don't jibe with the last collective bargaining agreement , signed in August 2011. As for the biggest one, the owners didn't consult with the players before unilaterally deciding to do something that likely violates the First Amendment rights of the NFL's most important employees -- the players, the same players that these same owners tried to silence by throwing a few bucks at a few of their favorite social causes here and there (more on that below). The NFL's old policy regarding the National Anthem also was nothing worth mentioning, either -- something along the lines that the NFL would encourage players to stand during the National Anthem. That was opposed to requiring them to do so, which meant that old policy gave quarterback Colin Kaepernick, safety Eric Reid and a slew of other players the right to do what they've done for two seasons. While Kaepernick is out of the league, the players he inspired continued to use their kneeling and sitting to protest social injustice across the country directed toward African-American males in particular. Thus the nasty tweets and curse words from President Donald Trump. The protests may also have contributed to the nearly 10% drop in TV viewership Near the end of last season, NFL officials puffed out their chests after they announced they would give the players $89 million for causes supporting the end to social injustice, but a couple of things here: That's nothing for a league that was projected to make $14 billion in 2017, and the players weren't falling for the football in the tailpipe. About those players: They're mostly seething over the NFL's new policy, and Kaepernick and Reid are the epitome of why Wednesday's action won't solve much. They both played for the San Francisco 49ers, and Kaepernick was so effective that he took the team as quarterback to the Super Bowl after the 2012 season. Reid was a standout defensive player, and he joins Kaepernick these days as a free agent. Neither has gotten a serious call from another NFL team, and they are suing the league for alleged collusion. Sorry, NFL owners. You were clueless during your spring meetings (beyond letting Tepper join your billionaire club and a few other minor improvements). The solution to your controversy involving players kneeling during the National Anthem wasn't difficult, and you blew it. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook A simple answer. Too simple for NFL owners, apparently.
A man is facing criminal charges after threatening Muslim students with a knife and stun gun this week while they were eating outside a McDonald’s in St. Augustine, Florida. John Jay Smith, 60, is facing two third-degree felony charges of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, a first-degree felony charge of burglary with assault or battery and a third-degree felony charge of trespassing, according to a police report. Officers arrested Smith at the McDonald’s on Wednesday at 2:30 a.m. after he used a switchblade-style knife to threaten the students, who were in a parked car outside the restaurant, according to First Coast News. One of the victims, Omar Abdelmoaty, told The Washington Post that he and four other Egyptian exchange students, all of them Muslim, were simply eating burgers and fries when Smith came at them. “Get the f**k out of here, you don’t deserve American food,” Smith reportedly said. At that point, Smith reportedly pulled out a stun gun and reached inside the car with it. The driver, likely very scared, accidentally backed the car into a pole. “We thought we were going to die,” Abdelmoaty told the Post.
If you've ever eaten a ridiculously huge meal and ended up feeling full to the point of near-exploding, you might have entertained this negative thought: I've instantly gained weight. Well, there's good news (and bad). What you eat -- or overeat -- does not instantly turn into weight gain. How much you eat over the course of a few days or week, however, can result in weight gain. To find out more about how long (and how much food) it takes to gain weight, The Huffington Post Australia spoke to two accredited practising dietitians. "Weight gain simply happens when we have an imbalance between the kilojoules we're eating and the kilojoules we're burning off," Jemma O'Hanlon told HuffPost Australia. "It doesn't occur just from one meal -- it's when this imbalance occurs over a period of time that weight gain can creep up on us." To put even more simply, Geraldine Georgeou says that "weight gain occurs when we don't burn off the calories we consume". When it comes to getting the right balance, one meal can't ruin your weight loss efforts. The key is to enjoy all foods in the right balance, keep your portions lean and focus on eating mindfully and intuitively. Jemma O'Hanlon As with anything related to the body, the amount of food we need to eat before it ends up as body weight depends on the individual. "The body is constantly working and using energy to complete tasks automatically without thinking, such as breathing," Georgeou told HuffPost Australia. "The calories each person burns to keep our bodies going even at rest is known as our basal metabolic rate. Each person has their own energy requirement which varies depending on numerous factors such as age, height, illness and activity. "What also varies is the rate at which people can burn their calories, otherwise known as your metabolism. We also use energy in order to complete conscious tasks such as walking, lifting and talking." On top of this, the body then uses up energy when we exercise, meaning the more exercise you do the more energy you will burn off. "When you stay the same weight, the energy your body gets from food equals the energy you burn off through automatic and conscious activity," Georgeou said. "Don't forget about incidental exercise. All the daily activities we complete like walking to the train station, taking the stairs or even doing household chores will add up." But how much extra food equates to one kilogram of weight gain? "If we're eating more kilojoules than our bodies are burning, the leftover energy will be stored as body fat," O'Hanlon said. "One kilogram of fat is 37,000 kilojoules stored (as fat contains 37 kilojoules per gram, which equals 37,000 kilojoules per kilogram). To gain 0.5-1 kilogram per week, you'd need to be consuming roughly an extra 2000-4000 kilojoules each day." In calories, this equates to an additional 500 plus calories per day that our body doesn't burn off, which isn't much at all. "In food terms, that's roughly equivalent to two slices of pizza or two iced doughnuts," Georgeou said. "It doesn't take much to eat over your energy requirement." Why is it always the most delicious foods? Sigh. Other foods that add up to around 2000 kilojoules/500 calories include: One Four 'N Twenty classic meat pie = 1680kJ One Big Mac from McDonald's = 2060kJ One Double Quarter Pounder from McDonald's = 3570kJ One large signature iced coffee from Gloria Jeans = 1720kJ One Zinger stacker burger from KFC = 3013kJ Large seasoned chips from KFC = 2070kJ One Banana coconut muffin from Muffin Break = 2340kJ "Also to note, the average Australian adult consumes about 8,700 kilojoules a day, so some of these single items would be contributing to more than one-third of their daily intake," O'Hanlon said. It's often when we eat past the point of being full that we're likely to gain weight. Jemma O'Hanlon While the actual rate people can gain weight varies and depends on the individual and their metabolism, age, height, fitness and state of health, it does not happen overnight. "When it comes to getting the right balance, one meal can't ruin your weight loss efforts," O'Hanlon told HuffPost Australia. "The key is to enjoy all foods in the right balance, keep your portions lean and focus on eating mindfully and intuitively. "It's often when we eat past the point of being full that we're likely to gain weight. Eat slowly and listen to your body, and stop when you feel comfortably satisfied. If you're eating until you're stuffed full, chances are you're eating more than your body needs." Ah, the all too familiar pants dance. If you have weighed yourself at one time of the day and noticed your weight has increased a few hours later, O'Hanlon says this is not the result of 'instant weight gain'. "We need to keep in mind that throughout the day our weight can fluctuate by a couple of kilos depending on our hydration levels or water retention, or whether we've just had a meal or something to drink," she explained. This food or drink will first be digested, the waste excreted (to put it politely) and the excess energy stored as fat. "As we start to digest our food our bodies will use this as energy," Georgeou said. "On average, it takes us roughly 6-8 hours after eating for food to travel through our stomach and small intestine. The food then travels through the large intestine where further digestion and absorption of water occurs, before it is then eliminated from the body. "However, if we eat a meal with excess calories than we need -- our bodies will store this extra energy as fat to be used at a later time." If you're struggling with your weight, see a health professional to get advice and help. Frustratingly, it's much easier to gain weight than it is to lose weight. "Often what we find, though, is that we can gain weight very quickly, while it takes much longer to lose it," O'Hanlon said. "Think about when you go on holidays. You may come back after a month or so away having gained five kilos, yet to lose that weight it might take quite a few months." "When you consume extra food it can be extremely difficult to burn off," Georgeou said. "For example, it would take a women in her thirties who is between 65-70 kilos 25 minutes of swimming laps to burn off a Mars Bar. A glass of wine would take approximately 40 minutes of brisk walking for your body to burn off and two chocolate biscuits at 80 calories each would take almost 20 minutes of jogging." In saying all this (frankly horrifying) information, unless someone is overweight, obese or underweight, O'Hanlon says our weight is simply a number and shouldn't be focused on too much. Our weight is just a number and it doesn't define who we are. "The way our bodies are wired is extremely complex and there are so many different factors that affect our weight," O'Hanlon said. "Rather than just focusing on our weight, we should be focusing on the bigger picture -- on our general health and wellbeing. Our weight is just a number and it doesn't define who we are." Visit HuffPost Australia's profile on Pinterest.
Please enable Javascript to watch this video CASS TOWNSHIP, Pa. -- State police in Schuylkill County are searching for the person who killed a dog by burying it alive in a cage. Workers at the Ruth Steinert Memorial SPCA say this is the worst case of animal cruelty they've ever seen. They say when they found the dog's body near Minersville, there was no doubt it was intentionally left there to die. , you can see a . Ruth Steinert Memorial SPCA workers took photos to show the gruesome discovery that they describe as the worst case of animal cruelty they've ever seen: a dog cage buried in the ground, covered with some old pieces of wood. "I was in shock. I've never seen anything like what I seen. It was horrid. Horrid. I don't even have the words to explain it. Barbaric. Tortured. Horrid," said animal cruelty officer Bridget Barder. The SPCA got a call over the weekend that led animal cruelty officers into the woods off Thomaston Road near Minersville. There they found a pit bull locked in a cage that was partially buried in the ground. "Whoever did this went to great effort and was sick," said SPCA manager Lori Sult. "They basically built a torture chamber for this dog." SPCA workers estimate the dog had been left there for about two months. Workers say it appears the dog starved to death. SPCA manager Lori Sult says that whoever left the dog in the woods had options. They could have taken it to either one of the two SPCA facilities in the county. "If you don't want to deal with the SPCAs, not that it would be the right thing to do, but if you're going to dump an animal, just release it," Sult said. Now that state police are involved, Sult and the rest of the SPCA community are hoping the person responsible will be brought to justice. "This dog died a horrible, horrible death. There was just so many other options. The dog did not have to die this way." The Ruth Steinert Memorial SPCA is offering a reward for information on this case. If you know anything about the dog, you're asked to contact state police in Frackville. A GoFundMe account has been set up to contribute to the reward.
A new list of the world's most valuable brands is out, and China has claimed two of the top spots for the first time. Alibaba has joined the top 10, alongside Chinese tech group Tencent, as well as stalwarts such as Google (GOOGL) and Apple (AAPL). Ranked at No. 9., Jack Ma's Alibaba has seen its brand value nearly double to $113 billion as the e-commerce company has expanded further into fields such as mobile payments and cloud computing. Shenzhen-based Tencent (TCEHY) broke into the annual BrandZ top 10 ranking in 2017 and has gone from strength to strength over the past year. It now holds fifth place -- behind Google, Apple, Amazon (AMZN) and Microsoft (MSFT) but above Facebook (FB) -- with a brand value of $179 billion, up 65% compared to last year. Tencent specializes in online games, apps, instant messaging services and online payments. It boasts a market capitalization of $490 billion, making it worth more than America's most valuable bank, JPMorgan Chase (JPM). Related: Alibaba is pouring billions into the food delivery business Here's the list of the top 10: Google Apple Amazon Microsoft Tencent Facebook Visa McDonald's Alibaba AT&T Doreen Wang, the head of BrandZ, said the new ranking demonstrates that Tencent and Alibaba have overcome numerous China-specific hurdles to become global powerhouses. "The challenges facing Chinese brands are by no means small," she said. "Limited brand awareness in international markets, a lack of trust due to historic quality issues and a reluctance by Chinese brands to invest in impactful global advertising campaigns has put them at a disadvantage with their more established competitors." But the rise of China and savvy young consumers has created opportunities for smart entrepreneurs, she said. "Attitudes are changing, particularly among younger consumers who are falling in love with Chinese brands," she said. "While penetration into US markets may still be at a preliminary stage for both brands, other regions are embracing them." Alibaba is gaining ground in Brazil, Chile and other Latin American countries, where its online marketplace AliExpress "is rapidly becoming the leading e-commerce platform," said Wang. It also has a strong presence in countries such as Israel, Spain and South Korea. Tencent has been gaining greater recognition in south Asian markets such as Thailand and Singapore, she said. The BrandZ ranking is published annually by WPP (WPPGF) and Kantar Millward Brown. Google has been at the top of the ranking for eight of the past 12 years. Its brand is currently valued at $302 billion, up 23% from last year.
Story highlights Feeling loved is often conveyed through small gestures, experts say Cooking for others can be viewed as a nurturing act that comes with the benefit of increased happiness (CNN) We say it before we end a phone call. We type it in our texts. It's the last words we speak before we say good night. "I love you" is possibly the most popular three-word phrase in the world, spoken millions of times every day. "I love you" translates intimacy between ourselves and others, but the expression is so common that it can lack the meaning it's intended. When saying and hearing it becomes automatic and expected, its power becomes dulled in our brain's limbic system, where we process love. Psychologist Abraham Maslow created a "hierarchy of needs" that ranks what humans are motivated to achieve, with love cited as a basic need after safety, food and shelter. A human's need for love carries a weight within us that isn't always an emotion. It can be an overall warmth, a deep sense of belonging, an underlying connectedness or confirmation of adoration between people. Still how do we arrive at a loving state? Researchers from Penn State University found that feeling loved isn't just about saying or hearing "I love you." Feeling loved is often conveyed through small gestures. According to a recent study, behavioral expressions trump verbal ones when it comes to transmitting that loving feeling. "It is possible for people to feel loved in simple, everyday scenarios," explained the study's lead researcher, Zita Oravecz. "It doesn't have to be over-the-top gestures." Read More
(CNN) Shellfish in the Puget Sound, an inlet of the Pacific Ocean along the northwest coast of Washington, tested positive for the prescription opioid oxycodone. But that wasn't all, according to Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife biologist Jennifer Lanksbury. In the midst of a national opioid crisis, the opioid may be the most attention-grabbing contaminant found, but it could be the least worrisome. The mussels also contained four kinds of synthetic surfactants -- the chemicals found in detergents and cleaning products -- seven kinds of antibiotics, five types of antidepressants, more than one antidiabetic drug and one chemotherapy agent. Surfactants, in particular, are "known to have estrogenic effect on organisms, so they affect the hormone system of some animals in an estrogenic way, such as feminizing male fish and making female fish reproductive before they're ready," Lanksbury explained. Scientists have not studied whether mussels are harmed by oxycodone. However, the presence of this drug in the mollusk speaks to the high number of people in the urban areas surrounding the Puget Sound who take this medication, said Lanksbury. "A lot of the pharmaceuticals are probably coming out of our wastewater treatment plants. They receive the water that comes from our toilets and our houses and our hospitals, and so these drugs, we're taking them, and then we're excreting them in our urine so it gets to the wastewater treatment plant in that way," Lanksbury said. "Some people, unfortunately, flush their drugs down the toilet, and that's a huge source of these pharmaceuticals." "The doses of oxycodone that we found in mussels are like 100 to 500 times lower than you would need for an adult male therapeutic dose," she said. "So you would have to eat 150 pounds of mussels from these contaminated areas to even get a small dose. But just the fact that it's present tells us it is getting into our waters, at least in urban areas." The study findings suggest toxic contaminants are entering the food web of the greater Puget Sound, especially along shorelines nearest Seattle and other urban areas. "What this is telling us is some of this stuff is coming out of our wastewater treatment plants and so we need to do a better job either at controlling the sources or trying to reduce the exposure in the Puget Sound," said Lanksbury. The results are from a special small-scale study. Every other year, she and her colleagues monitor fish and shellfish from the Puget Sound -- specifically herring, English sole, Chinook salmon and most recently mussels. "Mussels have a simpler system than fish, and that makes them great for monitoring," Lanksbury said. Fish can metabolize some chemicals, but the mussels do not, so in many cases, they are better at revealing contaminants in the water. To test the water, Lanksbury and her team get clean mussels and put them in antipredator cages. Citizen science volunteers stake the cages to the inner tidal area of the Puget Sound at low tide, and the scientists collect them after several months. The group started mussel monitoring in winter 2013 and conducted two additional surveys in 2016 and 2018. During their biennial reviews , the group routinely tests samples for a suite of contaminants: polychlorinated biphenyls ( PCBs ); polybrominated diphenyl ethers ( PBDE s), which are flame retardants; polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( PAH s), which are chemicals resulting from the combustion of fossils fuels; chlorinated pesticides, including dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane ( DDT ) compounds; and six metals: lead, copper, zinc, mercury, arsenic and cadmium. Recently, Lanksbury and her colleagues had access to extra funding. "We decided it was important for us to start looking for ' contaminants of emerging concern ,' " she said. This term refers to pharmaceuticals and personal care products -- including prescription drugs, detergents, shampoos and microplastic beads -- that are increasingly being detected in waterways, such as the Puget Sound. "We sent 18 samples (of mussels) to a laboratory up in Canada and asked for a suite of pharmaceutical and personal care products," Lanksbury said. "When that data came back to us, we found oxycodone in three of those 18 samples." One of the samples came from the shoreline of Seattle, and the two others came from near Bremerton, she said. "So to us, that says that the oxycodone problem is specific to the urban waters of the Puget Sound. All of the other areas tested did not have oxycodone. "All of our species indicate where contamination is coming into the Puget Sound," she explained. "Most of the shorelines of the Puget Sound are pretty clean. It's these highly urbanized locations where we're starting to get concerned about the levels of pharmaceuticals and personal care products." The population of the Puget Sound is slated to double over the next 10 to 20 years, Lanksbury noted, and a high proportion of that population is expected to live on the shore. Urban centers across the country are growing, as well. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "It's a nationwide problem," Lanksbury said. A study conducted by the US Geological Survey found measurable amounts of one or more medications in 80% of the water samples drawn from 139 streams in 30 states. Still, she is hopeful because wastewater treatment mechanisms have improved, and improvements continue to be made. And the public is becoming aware of the problem. Meanwhile, Seattle residents need "to keep in mind that what they do at home, what they put on their lawns, what they flush down the toilet ends up in the Puget Sound," she said. "The Puget Sound is a jewel in Washington, and if we all work together to keep it clean, we can make great strides."
Laurie Garrett is a Senior Fellow for Global Health at the Council on Foreign Relations, and a Pulitzer Prize-winning writer. The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers. (CNN) Thirty-five years ago, alert physicians in the United States spotted a new disease, caused by a virus that had been in circulation, unnoticed, for decades in people, and millennia in monkeys. The virus had hit pay dirt, racing through the gay sexual revolution where one man might have sex with 30 other men a year, giving the virus exponential rates of infection Over time, the virus' transmission shifted, especially in Africa, from rare cases of monkey-to-human transmission to general heterosexual spread, with women today five times more likely to be newly infected compared to men, thanks to sexual cultures that favor male promiscuity. That was HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, which currently infects more than 37 million people living all over the world. A key lesson of AIDS is that a virus—in HIV's case, infecting African monkeys—might pass rarely, but repeatedly, to human beings for decades before arriving in a context of epidemic potential. Adapting to new modes of transmission and targeting novel species, the microbe can exist for thousands of years before beginning to achieve previously unimaginable feats, with devastating impact. Now the world is facing a virus that seems poised to make a similar leap: the Zika virus. Like HIV, Zika originated in central Africa, very rarely infecting human beings, and circulating among rainforest primates. Unlike HIV, Zika had the ability to fly, carried by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes from one monkey or human, to another. Since reaching Brazil in 2013, where it has spread explosively over the last 12 months, Zika has demonstrated capabilities not seen, or extremely rarely noted, with any other insect-carried microbes. Most worrying, Zika has shed its mosquito transport dependency, becoming an efficient resident of human semen , and spread from male-to-female (and male-to-male) via sexual intercourse. This week researchers reported finding Zika in a woman's vagina, noting that, "the very presence in the female genital tract [implies] that sexual transmission from women to men could occur." And barely had the ink dried on that report when the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced today that a woman who traveled in a Zika-hit country, who got infected through a mosquito bite, has passed the virus onto her male sexual partner in New York City, marking the first documented case of female to male sexual transmission in the U.S. (and the 14th documented sexual transmission in the U.S. overall). If Zika finds its way into an especially sexually active community, it could well become a threat not only in America's southern, mosquito-infested states, but anywhere in the world. Like HIV, the Zika virus would likely find its way into populations that feel discriminated against by the general population, and take its toll disproportionately among teenage girls and young women. And while politicians play partisan games with funding on Capitol Hill, government and philanthropic donors ignore the World Health Organization's pleas for a measly $122 million to fight it, and state health agencies scramble to find anti-mosquito resources, the virus is spreading in new ways , causing an ever-widening range of dangerous birth defects and human illnesses. "I am concerned that the goose is cooked. This funding is done. It's not coming to us," Dr. Umair Shah, a public health official in Harris Country, Texas told NBC News . "We cannot spray our way out of this situation," Shah added, saying pesticides won't be enough to stop Zika at this late date in the American South. JUST WATCHED What twins can tell us about Zika Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What twins can tell us about Zika 03:14 The lingering Ebola epidemic in West Africa offers lessons on the difficulty of stopping a virus that takes on sexual transmission and can abide in semen for weeks after a man has recovered from the disease. Several times in 2015 and 2016, Ebola seemed to have been eradicated from Guinea, Sierra Leone or Liberia, only to reemerge via sexual transmission The statistics on Zika as a sexually transmitted disease are sobering. According to the World Health Organization , the Zika virus has emerged in 48 countries since Brazil sounded the alarm in October 2015. Four of those countries have active mosquito-borne spread of the virus underway now, and eleven of them—including the United States—have documented sexual transmission of the virus. Two Americans have died of Zika , one in Puerto Rico and the other in Utah. They were among the 1,132 travel-related Zika cases documented in the United States. Among the 50 states, Florida has been hardest hit to date, with 263 confirmed cases, 43 of them pregnant women, followed by Texas. Politics should not trump biology "No pregnant women should have to worry that her baby will develop brain damage because she was bitten once by a mosquito," a petition to Congress from the March of Dimes states. "It's an outrage that Congress has failed to give states and localities the resources they need to protect pregnant women and babies from Zika virus." The Zika funding stalemate on Capitol Hill might well result in an increase in the numbers of abortions in the United States this year—an ironic and tragic outcome of a political squabble that features, among other disputes, Democrats' objection to House Republicans' inclusion of anti-Planned Parenthood language in the GOP's Zika bill In Latin American countries hard hit by the virus, abortion rates have soared this year by as much as 108%, which research suggests is due largely to women who feared carrying a "Zika baby" but had no access to tests that could confirm the healthy viability of their fetus. Such tests don't exist: American women have no special advantage in the Zika fight, despite the greater wealth of the United States. In a few days, the Republican Party will gather for its national convention in Cleveland, Ohio—a metropolis that last year ranked in the top twenty most mosquito-infested cities in the United States. At the end of this week, Congress will shut down for the summer, and the politicians will not return to hammer out new agreements until September 6. Barring a remarkable compromise, the politicians will exit Washington on Friday, leaving funding for Zika prevention and research in the lurch , with the White House, Senate, and House each offering radically different funding proposals, none of which will materialize as money for research. Meanwhile, in all tiers of public health across America, scientists and officials are scrambling to rob other budgets in order to finance research and mosquito control measures. At local levels, this ironically means things like sexually-transmitted diseases (STDs) programs are losing money, so that counties can hire mosquito abatement experts. At the federal level, the remaining Ebola programs are seeing their budgets pilfered to provide temporary Zika funds, and a range of basic science research initiatives at the National Institutes of Health are on hold , their funds diverted to efforts to understand, diagnose, treat and vaccinate against Zika. Vital questions about Zika, especially as a sexually transmitted disease linked to birth defects, are going unanswered, thanks to the research funding gap. Can the world's blood supply be cleansed of Zika risk with transfusion? How likely is it that sexual transmission could dominate spread of Zika in the United States? How long can Zika survive in semen and cause infections? How does the virus get through the placenta to infect the developing fetus? Is it possible to create a 100% reliable fetal test for Zika infection and brain damage that can be used to guide decisions regarding pregnancy termination? Are the risks greater in a particular stage of pregnancy? Why aren't sonograms reliably identifying microcephaly babies in utero? Can a mother give birth to Zika-damaged babies if she never had symptoms of the disease? Are there ways that women can protect themselves and carry babies to term, short of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommendation to delay pregnancies altogether? How can a potential Zika vaccine be safely tested on pregnant women and their babies In the absence of answers to these and other Zika questions, women are compelled to make dire decisions, including opting for abortions Is Zika becoming a sexually transmitted disease? While HIV and Ebola offer potential roadmaps for how this might happen, it's still an open question. Researchers in Brazil took a deep dive into the country's data for dengue, a virus spread by the same Aedes aegypti mosquitoes as carry Zika, analyzing of the disease's diagnoses in 2013, 2015, and early 2016. They paid special attention to the distribution of dengue by age and gender. And they did the same for Zika cases in the country over 2015 and 2016. If all Zika cases were due to mosquito bites, the demographic distribution of dengue and Zika should match. But that's not what they found Instead, 90% more Zika cases were registered among women, compared to the female rates for dengue. Neighboring Colombia has also seen far more Zika in females, with young women accounting for two-thirds of the 65,726 cases diagnosed by mid-April 2016. Researchers note that though the infection rate was similar in very young children of both genders, "the incidence was significantly higher among female patients than among male patients in all other age groups." Critics charge that both the Brazilian and Colombian studies may simply reflect the greater fear women have about exposure to Zika during pregnancy, prompting more of them to seek medical care. The researchers disagree, insisting that the higher rates of diagnosed Zika are seen in young women, whether or not they are pregnant or are trying to conceive. One reason young women may be at higher risk is that they are having more sex with male partners whose semen may remain Zika-contaminated and infectious for months Such a pronounced gender difference wasn't seen in the Zika outbreaks in Pacific Island nations between 1990 and 2013, but there have been subtle genetic changes in the virus since its arrival in the Americas. Are these mutations relevant to sexual transmission? That is another research question scientists would like to answer, if Congress ever provides funding. JUST WATCHED Mothers of Zika babies shunned by society Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mothers of Zika babies shunned by society 02:13 At the end of June, frustrated scientists at the NIH decided to charge ahead with pregnancy and sexual research, despite congressional gridlock, by putting numerous other disease studies on temporary hold. A large study, tracking women over time in the United States, Puerto Rico, and Brazil, has begun enrolling volunteers. "We are going out on a limb, but we have to," Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the NIH's Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told Reuters . "We can't say we're going to wait until we get all the money." When microbes gain capacity to be sexually transmitted, they rarely disappear from the human population group in which they emerged. In 2008, for instance, physicians in San Francisco noticed that drug-resistant Staphylococcus, MRSA, was far more prevalent among gay men compared to any other demographic group; the bacterial disease had become a STD , soon surfacing among gay men in Boston and New York. In 2013, European researchers discovered that a virulent form of the bacterium that causes meningitis was spreading sexually among gay men. By 2015, gay men were dying from the new STD, and this year, public health officials all over the United States are begging gay men to get vaccinated as meningitis outbreaks surface nationwide. How to prevent a sexually transmitted Zika catastrophe? So what can we do to stave off a similarly catastrophic turn of events with the Zika virus? According to the CDC , 287 pregnant women living in the United States were diagnosed as Zika-infected by June 23, and another 250 in U.S. territories. There is no reliable test that can tell these 537 women whether or not the virus has passed to their fetus, gnawing away at their tiny, developing brains. In the United States and beyond, women especially are in desperate need of such a test. A recent poll conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that two-thirds of Americans have heard of Zika, which means an alarming third of the population knows nothing about the disease, and is unlikely to take precautions against infection. Fewer still—less than half—were aware that Zika could be passed sexually. In the absence of such knowledge, sexually active Americans are unlikely to use condoms. Around the world, intriguing puzzles abound. Jacqueline Silva de Oliveira lives in Santos, Brazil, where she contracted Zika during her pregnancy—either via a mosquito or sexually, it is not known—and gave birth to twins in February. Today, Lucas is a healthy, happy infant, but his twin sister, Laura, suffers in agonizing pain thanks to Zika microcephaly -- which slaughters brain cells and results in complete remodeling of the brain in development. The Brazilian government is monitoring six such sets of twins , discordant for Zika microcephaly, in hopes of learning how the virus infects (or doesn't infect) fetuses. In France , a healthy couple trying to have children sought in vitro fertilization. The clinic assisting them tested their blood and his semen for various infections, including Zika: they were fine. The couple took a holiday in the Caribbean nation of Martinique, returned to France, and underwent more tests. The man's blood was free of Zika, but about a month after they were back in France, the woman became infected. Examination of her partner's semen revealed Zika. Neither of them ever had symptoms of illness, nor felt any reason to avoid sex or use condoms, as they were a married couple trying to have a baby. Here at home, time is running out. Researchers desperately need funding to provide the tools required to forestall a sexually transmitted Zika epidemic in the United States. In the absence of those tools, women will make difficult choices, deferring pregnancies for months, perhaps years, and seeking abortions. The stalemate on Capitol Hill may actually increase the likelihood that more American babies will be born with terrible malformations and neurological deficits. And, equally horribly, that hundreds, perhaps thousands, of couples will seek abortions based on suspicion of Zika infection, possibly terminating some healthy pregnancies.
One of the biggest questions surrounding the royal wedding has finally been answered. Meghan Markle’s father, Thomas Markle, will walk the former “Suits” actress down the aisle at her May 19 nuptials to Prince Harry, after previous speculation that Markle would be escorted by her mother, Doria Ragland. The prince’s press secretary confirmed the news on Friday in a statement filled with updates on the upcoming wedding. “Both of the bride’s parents will have important roles in the wedding,” the statement said. “On the morning of the wedding, Ms. Ragland will travel with Ms. Markle by car to Windsor Castle. Mr. Markle will walk his daughter down the aisle of St. George’s Chapel. Ms. Markle is delighted to have her parents by her side on this important and happy occasion.” The press secretary added Meghan Markle’s parents will arrive a week before the wedding in order to meet and get to know the rest of the royal family, including the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh, the Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. While Markle’s mother has met Prince Harry before, this will be the first time that Markle’s father has met the prince in person. Markle said shortly after her engagement that her father and her fiancé had spoken to each other over the phone.
James A. Barnes is a member of the CNN Decision Desk and co-author of the 2018 Almanac of American Politics. (CNN) Republicans were relieved when Debbie Lesko won a special election on April 24 to maintain GOP control of the Phoenix area congressional seat of former Rep. Trent Franks. Lesko's 52.4%-47.6% victory over Democrat Hiral Tipirneni — based on unofficial but near complete returns — was welcomed by Capitol Hill Republicans who were panicked after Democrat Conor Lamb won a House special election in March in Pennsylvania in a congressional district which, like Arizona's 8th Congressional District outside Phoenix, President Donald Trump carried handily in 2016. Both Franks and the Rep. Tim Murphy from the Pennsylvania district had resigned in scandal. But an analysis of the special election returns from the 143 precincts that make up the congressional district in Arizona shows that Tipirneni performed better in many of the Republican-leaning precincts in the district, relative to results from the 2016 presidential election, than in its Democratic enclaves. This suggests that Tipirneni's message that Republicans are going to cut Social Security and Medicare to fill the yawning federal budget deficits exacerbated by the 2017 GOP tax cuts hit home with independent and even some GOP voters. While many Democratic operatives have argued that the party's fortunes in the midterm elections in November will be determined by its ability to drive partisan Democrats to the polls -- making the midterms a so-called "base election"-- Tipirneni's performance suggests that a "persuasion" strategy with a message aimed at swing voters and disenchanted Republicans could also play dividends. Indeed, in GOP House seats that Hillary Clinton didn't win or even come to close carrying in 2016, a persuasion approach is probably critical. We grouped precincts in Arizona's 8th Congressional District by the percentage of the major-party vote won by Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election and compared that to how Tipirneni performed in those clusters of precincts in the 2018 House special election. Where Clinton got less than 30% of the vote in 2016, Tipernini gained 11.1 percentage points. Where Clinton got more than 50% of the vote in 2016, Tipernini ganed less than 5 percentage points. Read More
Remo Casilli/Reuters Cardinal George Pell will stand trial for charges of sexual abuse, a Melbourne magistrate said Tuesday. SYDNEY ― Cardinal George Pell, the Vatican’s treasurer and third-highest-ranking official, will stand trial for charges of sexual abuse, a magistrate in Melbourne, Australia, said on Tuesday. Pell, a 76-year-old cardinal who has served in the Vatican since 2014, is the most senior Catholic leader to face such accusations. He has been charged with “historical sexual offenses” relating to his time as a priest in Australia’s Victoria state decades ago. Prior to his appointment to the Vatican, he was the archbishop of Sydney for more than 10 years. Belinda Wallington, the magistrate, said there was enough evidence to bring the case to court after a month-long pre-trial hearing in which several witnesses spoke about the abuse allegations. Some of the more serious charges leveled against Pell were thrown out, however. Cardinal George Pell leaves @MagCourtVic committed to stand trial on charges of historical sex offences. He will return to the County Court tomorrow for a directions hearing @9NewsAUS pic.twitter.com/B6TPCzbmgO — Jayde Vincent (@JaydeVincent) May 1, 2018 Charges were filed last June, and the case has been slowly moving through the Australian court system. But many details of the accusations against Pell have not been made public. Legal cases in Australia are subject to strict contempt laws that bar journalists from reporting on aspects of criminal allegations to protect the integrity of a case. As The New York Times notes, journalists are often given suppression orders mandating that certain material presented in court be off-limits for reporting. Even noting the existence of a suppression order itself can be restricted. Pell very clearly stated he will plead “not guilty” to those charges he will stand trial on. Half of the charges have been thrown out including the most serious charges (the nature of which I can not report for legal reasons). — Melissa Davey (@MelissaLDavey) May 1, 2018
Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated According to the old rule of thumb, you're supposed to drink eight glasses of water per day (and some experts recommend even more). That can seem like a daunting task on some days, but here's the catch: You don't have to drink all that water. Roughly 20% of our daily H2O intake comes from solid foods, especially fruits and vegetables. It's still important to drink plenty of water -- especially in the summertime -- but you can also quench your thirst with these 15 hugely hydrating foods, all of which are at least 90% water by weight. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Cucumber Water content: 96.7% This summer veggie -- which has the Want to pump up cucumber's hydrating power even more? Try blending it with nonfat yogurt, mint and ice cubes to make cucumber soup. Health.com: The best foods for every vitamin and mineral Water content: 96.7%This summer veggie -- which has the highest water content of any solid food -- is perfect in salads or sliced up and served with some hummus, says Keri Gans, author of "The Small Change Diet: 10 Steps to a Thinner and Healthier You" and a consultant to Mindbloom, a technology company that makes life-improvement apps.Want to pump up cucumber's hydrating power even more? Try blending it with nonfat yogurt, mint and ice cubes to make cucumber soup. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Iceberg lettuce Water content: 95.6% Iceberg lettuce tends to get a bad rap, nutrition-wise. Health experts often recommend shunning it in favor of darker greens like spinach or romaine lettuce, which contain higher amounts of fiber and nutrients such as folate and vitamin K. It's a different story when it comes to water content, though: Crispy iceberg has the highest of any lettuce, followed by butterhead, green leaf and romaine varieties. So when the temperature rises, pile iceberg onto sandwiches or use it as a bed for a Water content: 95.6%Iceberg lettuce tends to get a bad rap, nutrition-wise. Health experts often recommend shunning it in favor of darker greens like spinach or romaine lettuce, which contain higher amounts of fiber and nutrients such as folate and vitamin K.It's a different story when it comes to water content, though: Crispy iceberg has the highest of any lettuce, followed by butterhead, green leaf and romaine varieties.So when the temperature rises, pile iceberg onto sandwiches or use it as a bed for a healthy chicken salad . Even better: Ditch the tortillas and hamburger buns and use iceberg leaves as a wrap for tacos and burgers. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Celery Water content: 95.4% That urban legend about celery having negative calories isn't quite true, but it's pretty close. Like all foods that are high in water, celery has very few calories: just 6 calories per stalk. And its one-two punch of fiber and water helps fill you up and curb your appetite. This lightweight veggie isn't short on nutrition, however. Celery contains folate and vitamins A, C and K. And thanks in part to its high water content, celery neutralizes stomach acid and is often recommended as a Health.com: 30 foods under 40 calories Water content: 95.4%That urban legend about celery having negative calories isn't quite true, but it's pretty close. Like all foods that are high in water, celery has very few calories: just 6 calories per stalk. And its one-two punch of fiber and water helps fill you up and curb your appetite.This lightweight veggie isn't short on nutrition, however. Celery contains folate and vitamins A, C and K. And thanks in part to its high water content, celery neutralizes stomach acid and is often recommended as a natural remedy for heartburn and acid reflux. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Radishes Water content: 95.3% These refreshing root vegetables should be a fixture in your spring and summer salads. They provide a burst of spicy-sweet flavor -- and color! -- in a small package, and more important, they're filled with antioxidants such as catechin (also found in green tea). A crunchy texture also makes radishes a perfect addition to healthy summer coleslaw, with no mayo required. Slice them up with shredded cabbage and carrots, sliced snow peas, and chopped hazelnuts and parsley, and toss with poppy seeds, lemon juice, olive oil, salt and pepper. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Tomatoes Water content: 94.5% Sliced and diced tomatoes will always be a mainstay of salads, sauces and sandwiches, but don't forget about sweet cherry and grape varieties, which make an excellent hydrating snack, Gans says. "They're great to just pop in your mouth, maybe with some nuts or some low-sodium cheese," she says. "You get this great explosion of flavor when you bite into them." Having friends over? Skewer grape tomatoes, basil leaves and small chunks of mozzarella on toothpicks for a quick and easy appetizer. Health.com: 20 snacks that burn fat Water content: 94.5%Sliced and diced tomatoes will always be a mainstay of salads, sauces and sandwiches, but don't forget about sweet cherry and grape varieties, which make an excellent hydrating snack, Gans says. "They're great to just pop in your mouth, maybe with some nuts or some low-sodium cheese," she says. "You get this great explosion of flavor when you bite into them."Having friends over? Skewer grape tomatoes, basil leaves and small chunks of mozzarella on toothpicks for a quick and easy appetizer. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Green peppers Water content: 93.9% Bell peppers of all shades have a high water content, but green peppers lead the pack, just edging out the red and yellow varieties (which are about 92% water). And contrary to popular belief, green peppers contain just as many antioxidants as their slightly sweeter siblings. Peppers are a great pre-dinner or late-night snack, Gans says. "We tell people to munch on veggies when they have a craving, but a lot of people get bored of carrots and celery pretty quickly," she says. "Peppers are great to slice up when you get home from work, while you're making or waiting for dinner." Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Cauliflower Water content: 92.1% Don't let cauliflower's pale complexion fool you: In addition to having lots of water, these unassuming florets are packed with vitamins and phytonutrients that have been shown to help lower cholesterol and fight cancer, including breast cancer. (A 2012 study of breast cancer patients by Vanderbilt University researchers found that eating cruciferous veggies like cauliflower was associated with a lower risk of dying from the disease or seeing a recurrence.) "Break them up and add them to a salad for a satisfying crunch," Gans suggests. "You can even skip the croutons!" Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Watermelon Water content: 91.5% It's fairly obvious that watermelon is full of, well, water, but this juicy melon is also among the richest sources of lycopene, a cancer-fighting antioxidant found in red fruits and vegetables. In fact, watermelon contains more lycopene than raw tomatoes: about 12 milligrams per wedge, versus 3 milligrams per medium tomato. Although this melon is plenty hydrating on its own, Gans loves to mix it with water in the summertime. "Keep a water pitcher in the fridge with watermelon cubes in the bottom," she says. "It's really refreshing and a great incentive to drink more water overall." Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Spinach Water content: 91.4% Iceberg lettuce may have a higher water content, but spinach is usually a better bet overall. Piling raw spinach leaves on your sandwich or salad provides nearly as much built-in hydration, with an added nutritional punch. Spinach is rich in lutein, potassium, fiber and brain-boosting folate, and just one cup of raw leaves contains 15% of your daily intake of vitamin E, an important antioxidant for fighting off the damaging molecules known as free radicals. Health.com: The 20 best foods for fiber Water content: 91.4%Iceberg lettuce may have a higher water content, but spinach is usually a better bet overall. Piling raw spinach leaves on your sandwich or salad provides nearly as much built-in hydration, with an added nutritional punch.Spinach is rich in lutein, potassium, fiber and brain-boosting folate, and just one cup of raw leaves contains 15% of your daily intake of vitamin E, an important antioxidant for fighting off the damaging molecules known as free radicals. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Star fruit Water content: 91.4% This tropical fruit, also known as carambola, comes in sweet and tart varieties and has a juicy texture similar to pineapple. Its eye-catching shape looks great in a fruit salad or as an edible garnish on the rim of a summer cocktail. As a bonus, it's rich in antioxidants, especially epicatechin, a heart-healthy compound also found in red wine, dark chocolate and green tea. One note of caution: People with kidney problems should avoid star fruit because of its high levels of oxalic acid. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Strawberries Water content: 91.0% All berries are good foods for hydration, but juicy red strawberries are easily the best of the bunch. Raspberries and blueberries both hover around 85% water, and blackberries are only slightly better at 88.2%. "I love strawberries blended in a smoothie or mixed with plain nonfat yogurt, another hydrating food," Gans says. Strawberries add natural sweetness to the yogurt, she adds, and the combo of carbohydrates, fiber and protein make a great post-workout recovery snack. Health.com: 12 summer fruit and veggie recipes Water content: 91.0%All berries are good foods for hydration, but juicy red strawberries are easily the best of the bunch. Raspberries and blueberries both hover around 85% water, and blackberries are only slightly better at 88.2%."I love strawberries blended in a smoothie or mixed with plain nonfat yogurt, another hydrating food," Gans says. Strawberries add natural sweetness to the yogurt, she adds, and the combo of carbohydrates, fiber and protein make a great post-workout recovery snack. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Broccoli Water content: 90.7% Like its cousin cauliflower, raw broccoli adds a satisfying crunch to a salad. But its nutritional profile -- lots of fiber, potassium, vitamin A and vitamin C -- is slightly more impressive. What's more, broccoli is the only cruciferous vegetable (a category that contains cabbage and kale, in addition to cauliflower) with a significant amount of sulforaphane, a potent compound that boosts the body's protective enzymes and flushes out cancer-causing chemicals. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Grapefruit Water content: 90.5% This juicy, tangy citrus fruit can help lower cholesterol and shrink your waistline, research suggests. In one study, people who ate one grapefruit a day lowered their bad (LDL) cholesterol by 15.5% and their triglycerides by 27%. In another, eating half a grapefruit -- roughly 40 calories -- before each meal helped dieters lose about 3½ pounds over 12 weeks. Researchers say compounds in the fruit help fuel fat burn and stabilize blood sugar, therefore helping to reduce cravings. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: Foods that keep you hydrated Baby carrots Water content: 90.4% A carrot's a carrot, right? Not when it comes to water content. As it turns out, the baby-size carrots that have become a staple in supermarkets and lunchboxes contain more water than full-size carrots (which are merely 88.3% water). The ready-to-eat convenience factor is hard to top, as well. Snack on them right out of the bag, dip them in hummus or guacamole, or -- for a bit of added crunch and bright orange color -- chop them up and add them to salads or salsas. Hide Caption 15 of 16
(CNN) As a mom of two daughters, I'm mindful of how girls today have more opportunity than ever. In fact, I tell my girls this all the time: They can be anything they want and shatter any glass ceiling, even the highest one, the presidency. Be confident and speak up, and you can achieve great things, we tell our girls. You can play any sport, join any after-school club, volunteer for any cause and get the grades. In fact, girls are regularly outperforming boys in school and enrolling in higher numbers in college. It's a great time to be a girl -- or is it? Because behind all these possibilities is a troubling development: Girls' anxiety and depression are climbing and increasingly turning tragic. Between 2007 and 2015, the suicide rate for girls between the ages of 15 and 19 doubled, reaching a 40-year high in 2015, according to new data from the National Center for Health Statistics. "I think no one can dispute the wholesale kind of collapse of girls' wellness right now," said bestselling author Rachel Simmons, who has been working with and doing research on girls for the past two decades. "It's really a crisis. I don't think I'm overstating it. Everywhere I go, I hear about levels of anxiety that are so crippling that it makes it hard for teachers to teach, and we can't not pay attention to this anymore." Simmons points to the findings of a 2015 freshman survey by UCLA of 150,000 full-time students at more than 200 colleges and universities. Rachel Simmons is author of "Enough As She Is." Twice as many girls as boys reported that they felt depressed frequently or occasionally, and twice as many girls as boys said they were "overwhelmed with all they had to do" -- a 25% jump in the number of girls in both categories in just over 15 years, according to Simmons. What's behind these concerning numbers? As Simmons writes in her new book, "Enough As She Is: How to Help Girls Move Beyond Impossible Standards of Success to Live Healthy, Happy, and Fulfilling Lives," girls are growing up with outsize expectations of personal and professional success. The pressure to be great at everything is causing them to feel less confident, more fearful of failure and more critical of themselves, Simmons says. Girls' psychology and culture on 'collision course' "There is a deep mismatch in terms of what the culture is telling girls and their most vulnerable parts of their psychology," said Simmons, who is also co-founder of the national nonprofit Girls Leadership. Girls are socialized at a very young age to rely heavily on feedback from others. They grow up paying more and more attention to what other people think of them and whether they are measuring up to those external expectations. In today's society, that relentless concern about pleasing others is on what Simmons calls a collision course with two cultural changes: the ubiquitousness of social media, which is exacerbating the need to perform, and heightened expectations of what it means to be a successful girl today. "We're now giving girls access to STEM (science, technology, engineering and math). We're giving girls access to opportunities they've never had before. And we're not doing that and saying, 'Oh, you don't have to have a bikini body anymore. That's cool. You're good. You can look however you want to look,' " Simmons said. "No, we're saying 'keep your bikini body and become an engineering major and also have a totally lit Snapchat feed on a Saturday night,' and so that's exhausting, and I call that role overload and role conflict." Social media alone becomes a "virtual second shift" for young girls, almost like a full-time job, as they spend more time on average on Instagram and Snapchat that boys do. "Social media enables them to curate an exhausting range of identities -- jock, scholar, beauty queen, party girl, best friend, and on and on -- demanded by the new rules of girl success, crammed into a twenty-four-hour day," she writes in "Enough As She Is." Simmons said she wishes she didn't have to write this book. In her bestseller "The Curse of the Good Girl," published in 2009, she wrote about the need to teach girls how to take up space, find courage and be confident. But in her work with girls on college campuses and elementary, middle and high schools across the country, she started to see that the wellness piece was missing. "Despite very high levels of achievement, girls were struggling with a sense of imposter syndrome, low lack of confidence, overthinking and an enduring belief that no matter how hard they tried, they were not enough of whatever it was," said Simmons, who has a young daughter of her own. "Moreover, the terms of success that they had established for themselves were so kind of outsized and unrealistic and unhealthy that they were on this hamster wheel of trying to get something they were never going to get." Simmons said she has come to realize that in order to help girls become stronger and more confident, we have to attend to their emotional health. "We never thought about girls' leadership as being integrated into their wellness, and ... that's the shift that's taking place, is that we need to start thinking about wellness in tandem with growing their confidence and growing their achievement." Changing how we teach girls Tara Christie Kinsey , head of school at The Hewitt School, a girls' private school in New York City, and a former dean at Princeton University, said that what she and her colleagues in higher education have seen across college campuses for years are young girls with "amazing ... paper resumes" with all the right grades and SAT scores. It "looks amazing on paper, and yet the interior life of young women in particular was sorely lacking," said Kinsey, who has a daughter in the third grade and a son in the fifth grade. She tells the story of meeting with a female college student when her then-5-year-old daughter burst through the office door, so excited to show her mom the contents of her kindergarten folder. When her daughter left, "the young woman looked at me, and she said, 'I remember when I used to have that kind of confidence.' " As an educator and an advocate for girls and women, Kinsey said, she is focused on the gap between what we know girls need to thrive and be healthy and how we're teaching them every day, whether it's in the classroom or in the home. "I think that better understanding that gap holds many of the keys to closing yet another gap, the success gap between how girls are faring in school -- where we know they're crushing it, and they're outperforming boys, and they're achieving at levels we've never seen before -- and how they're faring in life after school," Kinsey said. "They're coming up against not only a structural glass ceiling but also a psychological glass ceiling that thwarts their self-actualization." Kinsey was familiar with Simmons' books and incorporated her research into her work in higher education. When she moved to The Hewitt School, she wanted to bring Simmons' teachings and experience to students, faculty and parents in the community. In 2016, Simmons was named the inaugural Girls' Research Scholar in Residence at Hewitt. Simmons' work at Hewitt involves helping the girls and young women build their skills in the broad category of emotional intelligence, Kinsey said, with a focus on healthy risk-taking, conflict resolution, self-advocacy, managing friendships, and the giving and receiving of feedback. She may be sprawled on the floor with an entire grade of middle-schoolers, tracing their bodies for an exercise on the difference between feelings you sometimes keep inside, such as jealousy, and feelings you express, such as anger. She might be sitting crisscross apple sauce with elementary school girls, talking about the difference between a real apology and a not-so-real apology. Or she may be standing on a chair and reciting a poem demonstrating how the pressure to be perfect really undermines the ability to give and receive authentic feedback. "What I'm trying to do is fill in the blanks in terms of some of the skills that they don't have," Simmons said. "So, sure, they're really good at doing their worksheets and the homework and sitting quietly in class discussions and taking exams, but when something goes off the rails, then we're working with them on, how do you cope? We're filling in the blanks, and I contend that if you fill in the blanks ... then we're going to see a better balance between all of this ... on-paper success and what's happening inside. "But right now, things are out of whack. We got overdeveloped on paper and very underdeveloped in life and in terms of resilience (and) adaptability." It is that fear of failure that can really be crippling for girls and young women today, which is why Simmons, who is also a leadership development specialist at Smith College, regularly concludes her orientation programs on college campuses with a graduation ceremony. The young women who attend will each receive a "Certificate of Failure." The mock diploma reads, "Having honorably fulfilled all the requirements imposed by the overload of high school, you are hereby certified to screw up, bomb or otherwise fail" during college "and still be a totally worthy, utterly excellent human," Simmons writes in her book. The girls laugh, she writes, but then they take those certificates back to their dorm rooms. "Every girls needs a Certificate of Failure," she writes. Helping parents combat 'not-enoughness' At Hewitt, Simmons also works with the teachers, helping them see the importance of trying to teach soft skills such as resilience and adaptability just like they are teaching anything else. Instead of giving feedback on written work, a teacher might do a one-on-one consultation with the student in which they focus on her goals and what she hopes to achieve in her next writing sample. In math, teachers don't typically give girls grades on quizzes; they give written feedback so the girls can learn from their mistakes. "You see how that's just completely transformative to girls and relationships, to their own achievement," Kinsey said. "It's not about grades. It's about growth. It's about feedback. It's about failure. It's about honoring mistakes as a necessary part of the learning process." As part of her work at Hewitt, Simmons also meets regularly with parents and tries to help them "combat the sense of shame and 'not-enoughness' that so many parents have." "This is an era in which parents are probably the least confident they're ever been in themselves," Simmons said. "If we want our kids to feel like they are enough, the parents have to feel like they are enough." During coffee talks, she tries to help parents feel comfortable enough to share what they are most afraid of, such as concerns that their daughter doesn't have a ton of friends or isn't getting the best grades. "We had a couple of faculty members who aren't parents who were sitting there going, 'Oh, my God. I had no idea that parents were that scared about their kids, and all I see is 'my daughter didn't get a good grade on the test,' and that anger is actually fear,'" Kinsey said. "That anger is fear, and what Rachel is doing in such a beautiful way is saying ''if you don't get in touch with that, you're not really modeling for girls what they need.' " Muffy Flouret, who has a daughter in the seventh grade at Hewitt, said Simmons is helping students and parents understand what it means to fail and how to bounce back. "She's on the edge of the research of how do we raise girls in the community, and it's invaluable, because parents who might not think twice about saying, 'Well, you didn't get the A. I'm not so happy about that,' might now think twice about that reaction," Flouret said. She also said Simmons is helping the community understand the perils of trying to be the best at everything. "To create this sort of pressure that you have to be the top of the soccer team and you have to be top of the debate team, it's not sustainable, and it's not realistic," she said. "Where does that leave you as an adult? You have to be able to bounce back and react to things." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Jo-Anne Williams, co-chairwoman of the Hewitt Parents' Association, who has a daughter in the seventh grade at the school, attends nearly every one of Simmons' events with parents. "It really causes you to take a step back and say, 'What am I really doing? Am I just trying to create a cookie cutter of myself, or (what) I want her to be?' " Williams said. "I worked in finance. I was always strong in certain subjects that she doesn't happen to like all that much. Am I pressuring her too much on math because that's not her thing? She's a dancer. She's a great writer. She's other things." Williams said her daughter recently told her mother that she chews her fingernails because she's a perfectionist. "I said, 'Well, I used to chew my fingernails when I was a kid,' and I said, 'I stopped doing it. And I also used to be a perfectionist and I've stopped doing that, so there's hope for you.' "
Washington (CNN) Kim Kardashian West met with President Donald Trump and other officials, including senior adviser Jared Kushner, at the White House on Wednesday to discuss prison reform. "Great meeting with @KimKardashian today, talked about prison reform and sentencing," the President tweeted following the afternoon meeting, posting a picture alongside a stoic Kardashian West in the Oval Office. Kardashian West, who wore a black suit with bright yellow stilettos, was spotted leaving the White House with a small entourage about an hour after she arrived. She departed in a black Chevrolet SUV parked inside White House grounds, a surprising level of access and courtesy. VIP guests of the White House usually are required to walk through a gate to board their vehicles. Though she did not roll down her windows to greet a gaggle of cameras awaiting her departure, an aide in the front seat was seen recording the reporters on a phone. During the White House press briefing Wednesday afternoon, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders wouldn't provide further details on who Kardashian West was meeting, only saying, "She is expected to be here at the White House. I can confirm she'll be here. We'll keep you posted on any meetings that take place and what those look like." Read More
Story highlights Nikki Haley: Widespread human rights violations a warning sign that breakdown in security is coming Syrian war just one example of how such violations can spiral into all-out war, she says Ambassador Nikki R. Haley is the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations and a member of President Donald Trump's Cabinet. The views expressed are her own. (CNN) Imagine you are the parent of a boy -- a teenager. Policemen come to your home in the middle of the night and take your boy away. He is held without explanation for weeks. And when he finally comes home, your boy has all the marks of having been tortured. Bruises from being beaten. Red, open wounds from being burned. Then you look at his hands and the worst is confirmed. Where his fingernails once were, there are only raw, bloody, exposed nerves. Grown men with pliers, he tells you, ripped his fingernails off in prison. For a group of parents in Syria in 2011, this was not an exercise in imagination but a horrifying reality. Their boys were arrested and tortured for the crime of writing anti-government graffiti on the wall of a school. When the parents marched in protest to demand their children's release, security services opened fire on them. When more people came out to protest the killings, the government fired on them again. Soon, the point of no return was reached. Nikki Haley "We were asking in a peaceful way to release the children but their reply was bullets," a relative of one of the boys told a reporter . "Now we can have no compromise with any security branches." The Syrian war is just one example of how human rights violations can become a vicious cycle of violence and instability that quickly spirals into all-out war. What began as an act of free expression of the kind Americans take for granted has become a conflict responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of desperate refugees. Nations thousands of miles away have been impacted. As the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, I've looked at how we can do more to respond to human rights violations before they reach the level of conflict. Traditionally, the United Nations Security Council has been considered the place where peace and security are debated, not human rights. But Tuesday, at the insistence of the United States, for the first time the Security Council took up the connection between human rights and conflict. We debated how widespread human rights violations are a warning sign -- a loud, blaring siren -- that a breakdown in peace and security is coming. Read More
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders spoke on everything from Roseanne Barr to the FBI during Wednesday’s press briefing, but it was a question by a child reporter named Benje Choucroun that rattled her most. “At my school, we recently had a lockdown drill,” said Benje, 13, when Sanders called on him. “One thing that affects my and other students’ mental health is the worry about the fact that we or our friends could be shot at school. Specifically, can you tell me what the administration has done and will do to prevent these senseless tragedies?” Sanders responded that “as a kid, and certainly as a parent, there is nothing that could be more terrifying for a kid to go to school and not feel safe.” “So, I’m sorry that you feel that way,” a visibly emotional Sanders went on. “This administration takes it seriously and the school safety commission that the president convened is meeting this week... to discuss the best ways forward and how we can do every single thing within our power to protect kids in our schools and to make them feel safe and make their parents feel good about dropping them off.” The White House did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment on the question, but according to a report in USA Today, Benje is from California, and is in Washington, D.C., covering a sports event for Time for Kids magazine. Many on social media had a lot to say about the exchange, particularly about the poignancy of the question and Sanders’ emotional response: Need to have more kids attend and ask questions at the WH Daily Press Briefing. Today's young journalist almost brought @PressSec to tears when he said he & his friends don't feel safe in school b/c of the shootings & asked what the Admin's plan is to make kids & schools safe. — Laura F T (@LauraTripp57) May 30, 2018 A kid at the WH briefing asked @PressSec what the Trump administration is doing to protect schools from shootings. She got a bit choked up, but then, of course, didn't answer the question. pic.twitter.com/mk709Nullr — Zack Ford (@ZackFord) May 30, 2018 .@PressSec Sanders is generally unflappable in the briefing room. Today, she got choked up when a child asked her about school shootings. pic.twitter.com/DnGu2D2Fgz — Gillian Brockell (@gbrockell) May 30, 2018 You could hear @PressSec choking up trying to answer a child’s question to his face. — Quinn Vega Rivera (@_Omegathree) May 30, 2018 A child just did what a group of educated adults could not or would not do in all this time: break down the wall of Sarah @PressSec Sanders . #Kids — Brian Riccio (@Trumpwatching1) May 30, 2018 Benje is already garnering much praise on social media, which is surely good for his burgeoning YouTube page, which features the young journalist talking about everything from the National Rifle Association to the weather.
Paul Callan is a CNN legal analyst, a former New York homicide prosecutor and current counsel at the New York law firm of Edelman & Edelman PC , focusing on wrongful conviction and civil rights cases. Follow him on Twitter @paulcallan . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) Early Sunday afternoon President Donald Trump elevated Twitter to a virtual Cabinet position in his administration. He used it, rather than the attorney general, to order a possible criminal investigation of a counterintelligence operation conducted by the Department of Justice and the FBI. The President tweeted: "I hereby demand, and will do so officially tomorrow, that the Department of Justice look into whether or not the FBI/DOJ infiltrated or surveilled the Trump Campaign for Political Purposes - and if any such demands or requests were made by people within the Obama Administration." I hereby demand, and will do so officially tomorrow, that the Department of Justice look into whether or not the FBI/DOJ infiltrated or surveilled the Trump Campaign for Political Purposes - and if any such demands or requests were made by people within the Obama Administration! This may be the first Department of Justice criminal investigation ordered via Twitter feed. Given the importance of a presidential decision regarding a possible criminal investigation, the use of Twitter was completely inappropriate. It trivializes the entire process. What's next in the presidential communication arsenal, the use of Facebook and Instagram with photos? One would have expected a conference with the deputy attorney general so that the implications of such an important decision could be weighed and evaluated. Ordering such an investigation via Twitter is a disgraceful exercise of prosecutorial power by the President of the United States. We can only hope that Trump doesn't lead the nation into war via Twitter before consulting with the proper military advisers. The US Constitution designates the president as the nation's chief executive -- in charge of all agencies in the executive branch of the federal government. Since the Department of Justice and the FBI are part of the executive branch, the president has final authority over the operation of those agencies. As such, in the absence of a provable "corrupt intent" to obstruct justice or engage in unlawful activity, his order to initiate an investigation of the FBI and Justice Department as outlined in his tweet would be presumptively legal. In modern times, though, most presidents have taken a hands-off approach with respect to specific criminal investigations in a deliberate effort to keep them out of partisan politics and to preserve public respect for the integrity of federal law enforcement authorities. That sensible precedent has been shattered by Trump's unapologetic criticism and suggestions regarding ongoing investigations and the investigators themselves. He has repeatedly attacked his own Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, calling him weak and disloyal, among other things. He has directed similar diatribes at high ranking members of the FBI as well as FBI investigative teams probing Russian interference in the American presidential election. While the President constantly urges a quick conclusion to the Mueller investigation with the mantra of "no evidence of collusion," and "witch hunt," his Twitter directive Sunday may actually extend and complicate the probe. Surprisingly Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, the man in charge of Mueller and the Russia investigation since Sessions' recusal, immediately complied with the President's tweetstorm. Rather than waiting for the President to make his "demand" official, as promised in the Twitter feed, Rosenstein pulled the trigger immediately, ordering the inspector general to investigate the matter. Ironically, the call for a new investigation occurred on the same day that presidential "pro bono" counsel Rudolph Giuliani told the New York Times that the Mueller team had hinted that the "Russia Investigation" might end as early as September if the President is willing to submit to questioning by Mueller on a limited number of topics. The presidential call for such an investigation of the Department of Justice and the FBI, if taken seriously, would undoubtedly have required the appointment of a second independent counsel with Mueller-like powers to avoid a clear conflict of interest. This job is far too big for the DOJ inspector general's office which normally investigates relatively minor internal agency waste and misconduct claims. Rosenstein may be hoping that the immediate inspector general referral will result in a swift investigation and closure of the matter. Part of the DOJ and the FBI 's job is after all the conduct of counterintelligence investigations and, if warranted by the evidence, the warning of presidential candidates that the Russians might try to infiltrate their campaigns to influence the American election. One would think that Trump would be grateful rather than suspicious about the warning. Rosenstein's swift referral to the inspector general is unlikely to buy him much peace. Trump has repeatedly telegraphed his intense dislike for Rosenstein who, after all, is the person who appointed Mueller. Trump has previously attacked Inspector General Michael Horowitz , Rosenstein's choice for the investigation, calling him "Obama's guy," and criticizing a prior referral to the IG's Office by Jeff Sessions. Though widely respected as thorough and fair by those in the legal profession, Horowitz has no credibility with Trump. In the end, Trump's attempt to embarrass his own Department of Justice and FBI is likely to wound only his own presidency. If Inspector General Horowitz makes the highly unlikely finding that the DOJ and the FBI acted criminally in their conduct of a counterintelligence operation related to the Trump campaign, a criminal referral will be necessary. Since the DOJ can't prosecute itself, a new outside, independent counsel would have to be appointed as Mueller, too, would have a conflict of interest. Undoubtedly, some of the FISA warrants used to gather information in the early stages of his investigation were very likely supported by the counterintelligence operation now under investigation. With the appointment of a new independent counsel whose job would necessarily include investigating the work of Mueller, the President will have created the bizarre spectacle of dueling independent counsels. In the firestorm which would follow, public confidence in the DOJ and the FBI would be shattered. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Sunday's Twitter order to commence a new investigation to smear the Obama administration is likely to backfire and extend the Mueller investigation. It may also cause Mueller to look at an interesting new idea -- was the presidential order to commence such a frivolous investigation itself really an attempt to block the progress of the Mueller investigation and obstruct justice? It might be the one piece of evidence needed by the independent counsel to prove corrupt intent as required by the obstruction of justice statute. The law of unintended consequences is a dangerous thing.
Jill Filipovic is a journalist based in New York and Nairobi, Kenya, and the author of the book "The H-Spot: The Feminist Pursuit of Happiness." Follow her on Twitter. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) Lava exploding as it pours into the sea. Cars engulfed in a molten torrent. Steam billowing, cloud-like, as inner Earth meets ocean. Jill Filipovic There is something mesmerizing about t he sheer power of Hawaii's Kilauea volcano , magnificent and malevolent all at once, a reminder that for all of our modern-day progress, nature possesses vast powers we cannot tame. Around the world, but especially in the United States, people are watching, rapt. It's almost a relief, this showing of natural fury. Oddly, it touches a different but equally cathartic point as last weekend's royal wedding, another much-needed opportunity to turn away from the social and political chaos inundating our news feeds. As Harry and Meghan wed, we marveled at the touching and decorous show of genuine love, of African-American traditions blending into the stodgiest of British ones -- a biracial American divorcee marrying a real-life prince; a promise that progress does happen and the world does change for the better. Kilauea is not a show of love, for sure. But it is equally awe-inspiring. And it's a necessary reminder that despite incredible human advances, we are very tiny, insignificant and, ultimately, existing at the pleasure of Mother Nature. Read More
(CNN) Keeping your heart healthy is about more than avoiding fast food and overly processed chow. You can also pump up your heart's health by choosing foods that will help reduce cholesterol, lower blood pressure and reduce inflammation. Which food groups have the most science behind their heart-healthy claims? Oats and barley The cell walls of oats and barley contain a special type of soluble fiber called beta-glucan, which has a host of benefits for human health. Studies show that it blunts the body's insulin response and boosts immunity, and it may be protective during radiation and chemotherapy. But its role in cholesterol reduction is what counts for heart health. "Beta-glucans bind to bile acids and cholesterol in the intestines and prevent their absorption into the body," CNN contributor and registered dietitian Lisa Drayer said. "So, if you have high cholesterol, it would be a good idea to incorporate oats or oatmeal for breakfast on a regular basis." Other grains, such as rye, wheat and sorghum, contain beta-glucans but in much smaller quantities than oats and barley. Beta-glucans are also found in seaweed, baker's yeast and various species of mushrooms such as reishi, shiitake and maitake. Research shows that eating 3 grams of beta-glucans a day will reduce cholesterol by up to 10%. According to Heart UK , a British charity dedicated to helping those with high cholesterol, you can accomplish by eating a bowl of oatmeal each day; adding 2 tablespoons of oat bran to your smoothie, soup or entree at lunch; and having an oatmeal cookie for a snack. Heart UK says you can replace one of those oat servings with 150 grams (⅔ cup) of cooked pearl barley. Salmon and other fatty fish Fish oils, especially omega-3 fatty acids, are critical for maintaining a healthy heart. That means fatty fish such as salmon, albacore tuna, mackerel, herring, lake trout and sardines and crustaceans such as lobster, oysters and squid are the protein staples of a heart-healthy diet. They all contain health-protective omega-3s, specifically the long-chain variety known as LC omega-3, which contain eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosapentaenoic acid (DPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Long-chain omega-3s have been shown in human clinical trials to prevent heart attacks by helping the heart maintain its rhythm. Studies show that they also make blood less likely to clot, lower blood pressure, keep blood vessels healthy and less likely to narrow, reduce triglycerides and lower inflammation. Whew! The shorter chain of omega-3, called alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), is found abundantly in oils, plants, nuts and seeds, but evidence of its benefit is not as strong. "The plant-based omega-3s in foods like flaxseed, walnuts and canola oil don't contain DHA and EPA," Drayer said. "And while there are benefits to the plant ones as well, you can't count on them as a source for their longer-chain cousins, because they are not necessarily converted into them once they are in the body." Fatty fish like salmon have the most long-chain omega-3s, and the American Heart Association recommends adding a 3½-ounce serving to your diet at least twice a week. Children and pregnant women should be careful to consume fish with lower levels of mercury, the association says, such as fresh and water-packed canned salmon. However, Drayer says, be careful how you prepare your catch. "You can make healthy foods unhealthy depending on how you cook them," Drayer said. "For example, if you deep-fry fish, all the unhealthy saturated or trans fat can outweigh the heart-healthy benefits. Ideally, you want to broil, bake, grill or poach -- but in water, not in oil. Oil will contribute lots of extra calories. If a menu doesn't specify, ask how the fish is poached." What if fatty fish is just not your thing? "If you never eat fish, you might consider a fish-oil supplement because of all the research on omega-3's benefits for heart and brain health," Drayer said. "There are some foods fortified with EPA and DHA omega-3s," added registered dietitian Rahaf Al Bochi, a spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. "Some of them are eggs, milk, juices, peanut butter and margarine spreads." "So instead of having regular spread on your toast, you can add something to your diet that has an added heart benefit," Drayer said. "Why not give yourself an added edge?" Be aware that most fortified foods have a fraction of the omega-3s of fatty fish and may be the shorter-chain variety. Dark leafy greens Salad greens, spinach, kale, swiss chard, collard and mustard greens are rich in vitamins A, C, E and K and contain antioxidants that help rid toxins from the body. But it's their abundance of calcium, magnesium and potassium that puts them on the top 10 list for heart health. "Potassium, magnesium and calcium are known to play a role in blood pressure regulation," said Al Bochi, who specializes in helping patients with Type 2 diabetes who are at high risk for heart disease. "Potassium is known to help with limiting the effects of sodium on blood pressure," she explained, "And it, along with magnesium and calcium, help the walls of the blood vessels relax, which increases blood flow and reduces blood pressure." Greens have minimal calories: One cup of spinach or Swiss chard is only 7 calories, and kale has 33. Nutritionists say it's usually best to get your calcium, magnesium and potassium from foods instead of supplements, so pile that plate high. Plus, greens -- like most vegetables -- are full of fiber, which helps lower cholesterol levels, prevents constipation (and therefore hemorrhoids) and, by helping you feel full, helps with weight control. And of course, maintaining a healthy weight is a key to good heart health. Nuts and seeds Unsalted seeds and nuts are also high in potassium, magnesium and other minerals known to reduce blood pressure. Studies on pistachios , for example, find that the nut can reduce blood vessel tightening (called peripheral vascular resistance), heart rate, blood pressure and cholesterol. According to one study , a single helping a day was better at lowering blood pressure than two helpings. Walnuts, pecans, almonds, flaxseed, macadamia nuts and hazelnuts are also good choices. Walnuts are especially high in omega-3s but are the short-chain variety. Still, that's good for the heart. "Though to a lesser extent than long-chain omega-3s," Drayer said, "alpha linolenic acid (ALA) -- a short-chain omega-3 found in walnuts and flaxseed and canola oil -- has been associated with protection against high blood pressure and heart disease." But keep in mind that all nuts are extremely high in calories. So an American Heart Association recommended serving is going to seem tiny: about 1½ ounces or 2 tablespoons of nut butter. Beware of the added salt, sugar or chocolate that is so appealing on nuts -- not good for heart health. Beets A surprising choice? Beets turn out to be chock full of nitric oxide, which studies show can help open blood vessels and therefore lower your blood pressure. In fact, a small study of Australian men and women found that drinking 500 grams (about 2½ cups) of beet juice significantly lowered systolic blood pressure (the top number in a blood pressure reading) within six hours. That's not all. Beets and their juice are one of the only sources of betalain, a powerful antioxidant with high anti-inflammatory qualities, which has sparked research into how beets could be used to treat diseases caused by chronic inflammation, such as arthritis cancer and heart failure. Avocados Already eating a healthy diet? Be sure to add avocadoes once a day. A study published in the Journal of the American Heart Association found that replacing saturated fat with one nutrient-packed avocado a day could lead to up to a 13.5 milligrams-per-deciliter reduction in blood pressure. That could be enough to keep some people off blood pressure meds, researchers say. Avocados are a rich source of monounsaturated fatty acids, which can lower both your total cholesterol and your "bad" cholesterol (LDL) while maintaining your "good" cholesterol (HDL) levels. They can also benefit insulin contro l, which can be very helpful to those with prediabetes or Type 2 diabetes. Olive oil A key component of the Mediterranean diet is the use of olive oil for cooking and for dressing salads and vegetables in place of more saturated fats, such as butter. Olive oil is rich in monounsaturated fatty acids and has been shown to reduce blood pressure and both bad cholesterol and triglycerides while increasing good cholesterol. HDL is often called the "friendly scavenger" because it scours the blood for bad cholesterol and gets rid of it before it clogs arteries. That's why having high levels of HDL is considered good for the heart. recent study of 300 Spanish men and women at high risk for cardiovascular events sheds some light on how the higher HDL from olive oil might work. Researchers compared people who ate a Mediterranean diet based on nuts and a group based on olive oil. The group who ate more olive oil had better-functioning HDL; in other words, their HDL was more efficient at finding and removing LDL and sending it to the liver as waste. Regardless of how it works, olive oil is extremely high in calories. It should be used in moderation and as a replacement for more unhealthy fats in the diet. Legumes No heart-healthy list would be complete without legumes, which include all kinds of beans, lentils, chickpeas and black-eyed peas. Legumes help the heart because of their high levels of soluble fiber, which is known to lower both cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the bloodstream. "Soluble fiber binds to extra LDL cholesterol in the body and disposes it in the form of waste," Al Bochi said. "You can think of it as a type of sponge." Studies have shown that eating less than a cup of legumes improved blood pressure , and a randomized controlled trial found that obese subjects who ate two servings a day of legumes and four servings of whole grains reduced their waist circumference, weight, triglycerides and blood pressure. Legumes contain no cholesterol and are only about 3% fat (unless they are prepared with lard or other unhealthy fats). They are full of iron, manganese, copper, B vitamins, magnesium, zinc and phosphorous, and they are very low on the glycemic index, which means they have less effect on your blood sugar. They are also extremely high in protein; for example, a half-cup of some legumes has 8 grams of protein. One caveat: Most people eat canned version of beans and other legumes, which will be packed with salt as a preservative. Salt, of course, can raise blood pressure. "Make sure that you rinse the excess salt and water before consuming," Al Bochi said. "And it's not just beans and lentils. Whether it's canned corn, canned peas, carrots, any type of canned food, it's important to remove the salt." Low-fat dairy It may seem odd to include dairy in a list of top heart-healthy foods, but it turns out that milk, cheese and yogurt can help reduce blood pressure. In a study by Boston University, researchers followed the eating habits of 75,000 people for up to 30 years and found that women who ate yogurt at least five times a week had a 20% reduction in their risk of developing high blood pressure. Milk and cheese also had an impact on lowering blood pressure, but it was nothing like yogurt, said the researchers. Men in the study consumed much less yogurt than the women; the effect on their blood pressure was weaker. "Dairy products contain calcium, potassium and magnesium, which are important minerals to help with blood pressure control," Al Bochi said. Those in the study who benefited most also closely followed the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute's DASH diet , which stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. Its premise is simple: Eat more veggies, fruits and low-fat dairy foods while cutting way back on any food high in saturated fat, and limit your intake of salt. The DASH meal plan includes three whole-grain products each day, four to six servings of vegetables, four to six servings of fruit, two to four servings of dairy products and several servings each of lean meats and nuts/seeds/legumes. "You're getting the combination of benefits by consuming these foods because they do offer more than one heart-healthy nutrient," Drayer said. In the Boston study, men and women who had a higher DASH score and who ate yogurt five or more times each week were 31% less likely to develop hypertension than participants who had low DASH scores and ate little yogurt. Though the study didn't track the type of yogurt eaten, experts stress choosing low-fat versions. "Dairy products can contain a high amount of saturated fat, so be sure to choose low-fat products," Al Bochi said. "Saturated fat has been known to increase LDL cholesterol, the bad cholesterol that can cause heart disease." A low-sodium, balanced diet No. 10 on the heart healthy list may seem odd, but it's important. Experts say that rather than focusing on just one or two of the heart healthy foods, you would be better served to eat a well-rounded diet that focuses on healthy foods of all types and colors. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "If you feel like there is a 'superfood' that you want to incorporate on a daily basis, say oats or salmon, that's OK," Drayer said, "but I really feel that eating a variety of healthy foods is best, because you're getting a different nutrient package with each. "The other thing I worry about is when people focus on one food, they may think that is their key to good health and eat more unhealthy foods," Drayer added. "For example, some people say, 'I eat a lot of kale, so I'm healthy,' and they don't pay attention to the rest of their diet. No one food can undo damage from an unhealthy diet." Unless your doctor says otherwise, part of a heart-healthy diet is watching your salt intake. The hidden salt in many of our processed foods make it extremely difficult: It's estimated that Americans get up to 80% of the salt in their diet from processed foods. The American Heart Association has a list of some of the top offenders, called the "Salty Six": breads and rolls, cold cuts and cured meats, sandwiches, pizza, soup and chicken. "Some ways to help reduce the amount of sodium in your diet is to limit the amount of processed foods, the amount of frozen dinners, for example, as well as adding salt to foods yourself," Al Bochi said. "Consider using some herbs and spices as well as fresh lemon and vinegar to add some flavor to your meals." Finally, a heart-healthy diet should just be part of an overall heart-healthy plan that includes exercise, weight loss, stress reduction and not smoking.
Washington (CNN) Florida Gov. Rick Scott shook up the Senate map Monday with his decision to challenge Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson. Scott's entrance ends months of will-he-or-won't he speculation and brings a sigh of relief for Republicans, who had lacked a credible opponent for Nelson. The Sunshine State contest is likely to be one of the most expensive in the country this year, making Scott's net worth of nearly $150 million an added benefit of his candidacy for Republicans. The Republican governor has shown a willingness to dip into his personal funds in previous races. If Democrats are to have any hope of reclaiming the Senate majority they will need to hold onto Florida -- and most, if not all, of the other nine states with Democratic incumbents that Trump won in 2016. Republicans currently hold a 51-49 advantage in the Senate, meaning Democrats need a net gain of two seats. Nelson, who is seeking a fourth six-year term in the Senate, started the calendar year with $8 million in the bank. He won his most recent race in 2012 by 13 points over Republican Connie Mack IV while at the same time Barack Obama carried the state by just a single point over Mitt Romney. Read More
Joshua A. Geltzer and Luke Hartig served as senior directors for counterterrorism at the National Security Council from 2015-17 and 2014-16, respectively. The opinions expressed in this commentary are theirs. (CNN) The horrific images of our fellow Americans forced into orange jumpsuits and beheaded by masked terrorists under the desert sun have been seared into our national consciousness. Nothing can bring back to their families the loved ones they've lost. But, with two of the suspected terrorists allegedly responsible for these murders now in custody , a measure of justice can be done. Yet, months after their capture, the fate of these detainees (who both deny involvement with ISIS) remains uncertain . There appears to be a debate within our government about which country should hold these men accountable and -- if it's the United States -- where to send them: to federal court for criminal prosecution or to Guantanamo Bay. As former career national security professionals in the US government, we have worked with colleagues across the government to figure out how best to handle terrorist suspects captured overseas. Sending these two to Guantanamo wouldn't be smart and it wouldn't be just -- it would at a minimum be justice delayed, and more likely justice denied. The idea of sending these suspects -- Alexanda Kotey and El Shafee Elsheikh, believed to share responsibility for the deaths of Americans James Foley, Adbul-Rahman Kassig, Steven Sotloff and Kayla Mueller -- to Guantanamo appears tied to the notion of prosecuting them before military commissions, rather than in federal court. But Guantanamo's military commissions have proven disastrous. They have obtained only a handful of convictions, with others reversed on appeal. And they are currently in full meltdown mode, with the Defense Department lawyer overseeing them recently fired for reasons now publicly disputed , the lawyers in one case resigning en masse out of concern that the government was surveilling conversations with their client (which government prosecutors deny), and the judge in that case indefinitely postponing proceedings until someone tells him what to do next. The families of 9/11 victims are still, all of these years later, waiting for the alleged perpetrators to go on trial at Guantanamo. Forcing the same endless wait on the families of murdered hostages makes no sense. While these individuals await military trial at Guantanamo, they could cause real problems for our government. First, they'd cost millions of dollars per year to be held at Guantanamo -- in contrast to the $86,000 per year it costs our government to hold each prisoner at Colorado's Supermax facility. That's in part because of the incredible burden of operating a prison on a small piece of an island not our own; and it's in part because, as detainees under the law of war, these individuals would be entitled to conditions at Guantanamo far more comfortable than those afforded prisoners at Supermax. Second, these would be Guantanamo's first detainees associated with ISIS rather than al Qaeda or the Taliban, and they could challenge in federal court whether they're legally detained as such. That, in turn, could put before a federal judge the government's entire theory of the authority for its critical, continuing campaign against ISIS, a theory that some legal commentators have questioned. The government is already trying to avoid litigating pending cases that challenge this same legal theory. Why give these guys a shot at bringing this question to the courts? Third, the prospect of detaining at Guantanamo these two men -- former British nationals nicknamed "The Beatles" because of their British accents -- could raise diplomatic complications with our closest ally, which previously faced domestic political outrage over the protracted detention at Guantanamo of former and now once-again British resident Shaker Aamer. JUST WATCHED ISIS claims responsibility for Paris stabbing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH ISIS claims responsibility for Paris stabbing 01:37 Fourth, even a military commission conviction could potentially be thrown out on appeal , as half of those already obtained at Guantanamo have been already. Finally, if the military commissions never come to fruition -- as looks increasingly likely for some detainees already at Guantanamo -- and these individuals are held indefinitely under the law of war, eventually they may be entitled to their release if the armed conflict with ISIS concludes. That's a truly terrifying prospect. So, what's the alternative to Guantanamo? It's prosecution in federal court, where more than 660 defendants have been convicted of terrorism-related crimes since 9/11. The life sentence imposed in March on former high-ranking al Qaeda member Muhanad al-Farekh and the November 2017 conviction of one of the perpetrators of the Benghazi attack showed, yet again, that the federal courts can deliver swift justice and lengthy sentences, even in complicated cases involving terrorists captured overseas. Of course, we don't know the precise strength of the government's case against the two captured "Beatles," and even the government may not know that until it concludes its full investigation. But, assuming there's a case to be made, the federal courts are the place to make it and see justice done. That's not just our experienced view; it's also governing US policy, which requires our government to "diligently seek to ensure that hostage-takers of US nationals are arrested, prosecuted and punished through a due process criminal justice system in the United States or abroad for crimes related to the hostage-taking." JUST WATCHED Trump reverses Obama policy on Guantanamo Bay Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump reverses Obama policy on Guantanamo Bay 01:52 Reasonable people can disagree on the merits of keeping Guantanamo open and of sending new detainees there. But the question of what to do with the alleged murderers of US hostages should be solely focused on two things: seeing justice done and respecting the wishes of the families for prosecution. One potentially viable alternative to federal prosecution or Guantanamo would be for the British government to prosecute these men. Both are former British nationals and appear to have British blood on their hands, as well. Depending on the strength of the evidence, as well as the specifics of British criminal procedure, American and British prosecutors may deem this option more likely to bring justice to the families. Perhaps these considerations could justify that result; but the first choice for our government should be to see justice done for Americans right here in America. All told, bringing these individuals to Guantanamo would inject uncertainty into their fate, impose costs and tough legal challenges on our government, and infuriate our anti-Guantanamo British allies whose citizens also appear to have died at their hands -- all with the possibility of eventual release. Perhaps most importantly, it would contradict the wishes of the families of the hostages allegedly murdered by these men. In contrast, and especially if British prosecution is unavailable, prosecuting them in federal court carries the prospect of seeing justice served, swiftly and for all to see.
(CNN) The tweets from Roseanne Barr that led to the cancellation of her hit ABC series is just the latest controversy involving the comedian. ABC axed the "Roseanne" reboot after a series of tweets Barr sent Tuesday, including one in which she wrote about former Obama administration official Valerie Jarrett, "Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj." Those who have followed Barr's career over the years are aware she's often stirred outrage. Here are just a few examples: 'Star-Spangled Banner' performance Barr turned in what is now considered one of the all-time worst "Star-Spangled Banner" performances when she sang at a 1990 San Diego Padres game. That year her "Roseanne" star was red hot on ABC, and her standup career was thriving. But Barr's rendition of the National Anthem was not well-received. Audible boos could be heard as she shrieked her way through it, at one point putting a finger in her ears. Barr concluded with a crotch grab and spitting on the ground. The performance was roundly condemned, with President George H.W. Bush calling it "disgraceful." At a press conference later, Barr tried to explain she was simply trying to be funny. "None of this was meant viciously," she said at the time. "Nobody feels worse than me." Recanting sex abuse claims Barr shocked fans in 1991 when she claimed she had been sexually abused as a child. In 2011 she recanted and told Oprah Winfrey , "I think it's the worst thing I've ever done. It's the biggest mistake that I've ever made." "I think what happened was that -- well, I know what happened was that I was in a very unhappy relationship," Barr said. "I was prescribed numerous psychiatric drugs. Incredible mixtures of psychiatric drugs to deal with the fact that I had, and still in some ways, have and always will have some mental illness. And the drugs and the combination of drugs that I was given, which were some strong, strong drugs, I totally lost touch with reality in a big, big way." Dressing as Hitler In 2009, Barr posed for Heeb magazine dressed as Adolf Hitler pulling burned cookies in the shape of people from an oven. Kathy Griffin was fired for posting a fake picture of Trump missing his head. Why is Roseanne not being fired for posting a picture of gingerbread Jews going into an oven while she was dressed as Hitler?@ABC - We're glad to watch the competition until you do the right thing! pic.twitter.com/Qs7Tvm2kbQ — TOᑭ ᖇOᑭE TᖇAViS 🇺🇸 (@TopRopeTravis) March 30, 2018 The accompanying interview featured Barr talking everything from Twitter (which she said at the time she had deleted because of "the idiocy of people and how ill-informed they all seem") and other controversial comics. "Franklin Ajaye, Paul Mooney, Mort Sahl and Dick Gregory's passings will tear my kishkas out," Barr said. "They gave everything they had to just tell the truth, and they couldn't make a decent living because of the choice they made -- not selling out to Hollywood." The photos recently resurfaced after the "Roseanne" reboot. Barr attempted to explain her motivation for the photo shoot in an expletive-laden appearance on "The Green Room" in 2011. She said she was not trying to make fun of Jewish people or the Holocaust. "There's another, deeper layer to it," Barr said. "Moving off this Holocaust, there's been about 50 of them since then. That's what I'm kind of trying to say is like Jesus Christ it's so f***ing every day now, Holocaust, it's like baking cookies." Sharing address of George Zimmerman's parents Shortly after teen Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman in a high-profile case in 2012, Barr retweeted the home address of Zimmerman's parents. "If Zimmerman isn't arrested I'll rt his address again — maybe go 2 his house myself," she said in a now-deleted tweet.
Shaun White took home his third career snowboarding gold medal at this year’s Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. His incredible final halfpipe run was virtually perfect and clinched his victory. So how do you improve on perfection? That’s easy: just add internet. Video editor Dylan Tate took White’s final run and added Super Mario effects like coins, mushrooms and stars. Tate says the video was a 36-hour endeavor. Worth it.
Fast food jobs pay some of the lowest wages in the country, giving workers little reason to stick around if they get a better offer and proving costly to employers who need to find people to replace them. In California, one Chick-fil-A franchisee says he's trying to break the cycle. Eric Mason, who for the last three years has owned a Chick-fil-A off the highway near the Sacramento airport, says that next week he'll start hiring "hospitality professionals" starting at $17 an hour, up from the $12 to $13 an hour he pays now. "When we go to the living wage, we're looking for people who are trying to raise families, improve their lifestyle," he told ABC10 News on May 26. "Maybe they could just work one job, and then it's sustainable. What that does for the business is provide consistency, someone that has relationships with our guests. It's going to be building a long-term culture." Mason's marketing manager Marena Weisman confirmed to CNNMoney that the franchise would be hiring between 35 and 45 people at the new rate, for work in both the front and the back of the house, and that all current employees are encouraged to apply for the positions. Related: The case for raising the minimum wage keeps getting stronger According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, fast food cooks in the Sacramento area make an average of $11.42 an hour, about a dollar higher than the national level. Even though California's minimum wage is currently $11 an hour, and will rise steadily to $15 by 2022, Mason's $5 jump is unusual. "All responsible employers are preparing for the impact of the increasing minimum wage, but they are usually doing it over time and planning for it," says Carey Klosterman, director of research and compensation services at the California Employers Association. One reason why: Even employees making just a little bit more than the minimum wage tend to expect raises too. So if employers raise wages too quickly, it can get expensive. "While increasing the wage to this level at a fast food restaurant is commendable, I don't foresee that many businesses will likely be following in their footsteps," Klosterman says. Such big hikes in wages are also especially rare in franchised industries, where the headquarters often charges steep royalties and controls many aspects of the operation — including prices and promotions. That can make life difficult for franchisees in areas with higher fixed costs like wages. "If you're in a territory where labor is much higher than the rest of the country, you could be underwater," says Peter Lagarias, an attorney for franchisees based in San Rafael, California. "When these kinds of pressures all build up, you can understand that franchisees are hurting." Related: To stay competitive, US call centers are training workers to be super agents Lagarias hasn't seen the franchise agreement for Chick-fil-A, which is relatively new to California, so it's not clear whether an owner-operator could pass along increased labor costs by charging higher prices. Chick-fil-A is unusual in that each owner is limited to one store apiece, which keeps them more involved in day-to-day operations. A spokeswoman from Chick-fil-A's corporate office said only that local operators make their own hiring and wage decisions. However, Mason's strategy could pay off in the long run. Research has shown that raising wages can reduce turnover, which in the restaurant industry can be as high as 100% per year. Each time a worker leaves, it costs the restaurant owner money because they then have to fill the shift with someone else. Mason is also correct to point out that many low-wage workers have to hold down multiple jobs at a time in order to survive, and that full-time work at a livable wage is something many would try hard to keep. "The reason people leave low wage jobs is that they're trying to find something just a little bit better," says Sylvia Allegretto, a labor economist at the University of California, Berkeley. Related: California ruling puts pressure on Uber, Lyft and other gig economy employers At $17 an hour, Mason's "hospitality professional" positions could be practically immune from turnover. "You're going to try very hard to get that job, and you're going to be a very good, diligent productive worker," Allegretto says. "Because if you lose that job, your next job will be back down close to the minimum wage." That may position Mason's store to succeed in what's rapidly become a job seekers' market. Sacramento's unemployment rate tracks the national average, which is currently 3.9%. That's the lowest rate it's been since 2000 and it's expected to keep dropping through 2018. A $17 wage would also allow Mason to be picky with the people he hires, and according to a job description, those expectations are high. A successful applicant, it reads, "must love to smile & connect with people, make eye contact & speak enthusiastically" and "makes working hard and delivering high standards look easy and effortless, enabling others to be efficient and effortless as well."
Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June The bulletproof superhero is back. Season 2 of "Marvel's Luke Cage" kicks off in June on Netflix. Here is some of the other content that is also streaming during the month... Hide Caption 1 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "The Break with Michelle Wolf": Fresh off of her (Netflix) : Fresh off of her controversial appearance at the White House Correspondents' Dinner, Wolf launches a late night variety show. Hide Caption 2 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "W. Kamau Bell: Private School Negro": Comedian, activist and CNN series host W. Kamau Bell covers everything from parenting in the Trump era to his fear of going off the grid in this standup special. (Netflix) Hide Caption 3 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Grey's Anatomy" Season 14: (Netflix) Keep up with the latest emergencies on this long-running medical drama. Hide Caption 4 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "He Named Me Malala": The life of Pakistani teen Malala Yousafzai, who rose to fame after she was almost killed in her homeland and became the youngest-ever Nobel Peace Prize Laureate for her advocacy work with women and children, is examined in this documentary. (Netflix) Hide Caption 5 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Marlon" Season 1: Essence Atkins stars as Ashley, Marlon Wayans as Marlon, and Amir O'Neil as Zack in this comedy series about a divorced dad trying to juggle fatherhood and his career. (Netflix) Hide Caption 6 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Marvel Studios' Thor: Ragnarok": The sequel to 2011's "Thor" and 2013's "Thor: The Dark World" finds the superhero battling against the ruthless villain Hela. (Netflix) Hide Caption 7 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. Season 5: An elite team of fellow agents with a law-enforcement organization known as SHIELD (Strategic Homeland Intervention Enforcement and Logistics Division) investigate strange occurrences around the world in this series.(Netflix) Hide Caption 8 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Star Wars: The Last Jedi": In the second installment of the "Star Wars" sequel trilogy, which follows 2015's "Star Wars: The Force Awakens," Rey develops her newly discovered abilities with the guidance of Luke Skywalker..(Netflix) Hide Caption 9 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Portlandia" Season 8: Aidy Bryant appears in this comedy series that pokes fun at life in Portland, Oregon and stars Fred Armisen and Carrie Brownstein. (Netflix) Hide Caption 10 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency" Season 2: Holistic detective Dirk Gently (Samuel Barnett) and his reluctant sidekick Todd Brotzman (Elijah Wood) star as the central characters in this sci-fi detective series. (Hulu) Hide Caption 11 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Rick and Morty" Season 3: This animated series follows the exploits of a scientist and his not-so-bright grandson has a cult following.(Hulu) Hide Caption 12 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "2 Days In The Valley" : Charlize Theron stars in this drama about a group of people drawn together because of a murder. (Hulu) Hide Caption 13 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June " A Beautiful Mind": This biographical drama based on the life of John Nash, a Nobel Laureate in economics, won several Academy Awards, including best picture. (Hulu) Hide Caption 14 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Brokeback Mountain": It will be hard to quit this drama in which Jake Gyllenhaal and Heath Ledger star as a pair of cowboys who must hide their true feelings for each other. (Hulu) Hide Caption 15 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "The Pink Panther Strikes Again": Long suffering Charles Dreyfus (Herbert Lom) escapes from a mental institution and attempts to get rid of Chief Inspector Clouseau (Peter Sellers) in this comedy. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 16 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "The Running Man" : Arnold Schwarzenegger stars in this film about a man wrongly convicted who must try to survive a public execution gauntlet staged as a game show. (Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 17 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Transformers: The Last Knight": Optimus Prime is gone and war is raging in this sci-fi action film which is part of a franchise. (Hulu) Hide Caption 18 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Curious George 3: Back to the Jungle": Curious George lands in Africa after he participates in a space mission in this animated family film. (Hulu) Hide Caption 19 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Shutter Island" : Leonardo DiCaprio stars in this psychological thriller about an investigation into a psychiatric facility. (Hulu) Hide Caption 20 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Goliath" Season 2: Billy Bob Thornton stars as washed up lawyer Billy McBride in this legal drama about a man who gets a second chance. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 21 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Lady Bird": Saoirse Ronan and Laurie Metcalf star as a daughter and mother with a complex relationship in this critically acclaimed film. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 22 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Lost In Oz": A young Dorothy and her trusty dog search for Glinda the Good in this animated adventure. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 23 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "The Care Bears Movie": The Care Bears watch over a young brother and sister who have lost faith in this family film. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 24 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "The Age of Innocence": Martin Scorsese directs this adaptation of the Edith Wharton nineteenth-century New York high society novel about a young lawyer who falls in love with a woman separated from her husband while engaged to the woman's cousin. (Hulu) Hide Caption 25 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Nacho Libre": Jack Black stars as a monk who pursues his dream of becoming a Mexican wrestler. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 26 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "The Ladies Man": Tim Meadows turns his "SNL" skit about radio host who doles out love advice into this big screen comedy. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 27 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Allan Quatermain and the Lost City of Gold" : Richard Chamberlain reprises his role from "King Solomon's Mines" in this sequel as adventurer Allan Quatermain (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 28 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "As Good as Dead": A group kidnaps and tortures a man they believe responsible for the death of their religious leader in this crime thriller. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 29 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Blade Runner 2049" : Ryan Gosling stars stars as "K," in this neo sci-fi story about a young blade runner's discovery of a long-buried secret. (Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 30 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "American Made": Tom Cruise stars as Barry Seal, an American pilot who became a drug-runner for the CIA in the 1980s in a clandestine operation that would later be exposed as the Iran-Contra Affair. (HBO Now) Hide Caption 31 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Chips": Michael Peña and Dax Shepard star in this big screen adaptation of the 1970s TV series about a pair of California Highway Patrol officers. (HBO Now) Hide Caption 32 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Kingsman: The Golden Circle": Taron Egerton stars in this comedic spy thriller. (HBO Now) Hide Caption 33 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "It": A group of bullied kids band together to destroy a shapeshifting monster, which disguises itself as a clown and preys on the children of their small Maine town in this film adaptation of a popular Stephen King novel. (HBO Now) Hide Caption 34 of 36 Photos: What's streaming on Netflix, Hulu and Amazon in June "Bed of Roses": A woman tries to handle her life after she discovers her husband has died in the arms of another woman, leaving her broke in this Australian dramedy. (Acorn TV) Hide Caption 35 of 36
A Chick-fil-A in Sacramento, California is raising wages for some employees. The new rate is well above the national average of $10.39 for fast food cooks.
In the run-up to the anniversary of the Manchester Arena attack, the Hope Theatre Company have been working on their most important project yet. Based on the life of Martyn Hett, one of the 22 victims of last year’s terror attack, ‘#BeMoreMartyn’ is riotous, fun-filled trip down memory lane, as eight actors - playing Martyn’s real friends - recall his most fabulous moments. The play takes its name from the hashtag that trended for days, as his friends and loved ones called for people to “be more Martyn” in the wake of his death. The play, producer Adam Zane explains, will give people a sense of what the hashtag means. Facebook Martyn Hett “We want the audience to leave inspired by Martyn and feel empowered because he didn’t just like things, he loved things,” he tells HuffPost UK. “And he was proud of the things he loved.” He was famed for it too, as Martyn’s love of ‘Coronation Street’ and his leg tattoo of character Deidre Barlow helped earned him an army of online followers. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter YouTube Pinterest Snapchat Instagram CLOSE His passion is something Adam feels very inspired by, explaining: “When I was a kid I hid what music I liked because I was scared to admit I liked Kylie, because I was trying to fit in. “I’m in my 40s and there are still moments when perhaps, I don’t necessarily tell people that I’m gay…I might just not bring it up and why? Why am I doing that? Why not be more Martyn and just be myself? It’s about how he continues to inspire people.” The script of ‘#BeMoreMartyn: The Boy With The Deidre Tattoo’ - to give the production its full, glorious title - was created from interviews with Martyn’s friends, a verbatim approach that the theatre company specialises in. They each sat down, one-by-one, to talk about their friend and an early version of the play was performed at a memorial event last October. Following its success - including praise from Martyn’s pals who’ve since found themselves as characters - the friends agreed to be interviewed again. Rewrites and rehearsals then commenced, and as Adam attempted to turn over 20 hours of interviews into a two-hour play, it was announced that the new version would debut to mark the anniversary of the attack. I arrive at their rehearsal space on one afternoon, the week before opening night. The company are practicing a scene that takes place on Canal Street, a bar-lined road which runs through the centre of Manchester’s gay district, and it doesn’t take long to get a sense of what Martyn was like. “He just loved bringing everyone together,” says one character, describing the random selection of people who were on this particular night out. “Whatever stage there was, of course, he’d be on it,” laughs another. “This is how he lived his life,” a third character says, gesturing at the others doing shots and dancing. “And how he taught everyone else to.” Hope Theatre Company The cast It’s laugh out loud funny, with scenes about dogging hotspots and run-ins with law enforcement (not at the same time) and it truly says it all that without being on stage, Martyn is still the star of the show. “What you get from the play is a real sense of a man who lived every single second of his life,” explains Bridget Gallagher, who plays Hannah. “He’s a very exuberant character who was friends with so many different people. “We would utilise a lot of the stuff that went on, crazy little events like holidays to Blackpool that sounded hilarious. When he took characters from ‘Coronation Street’ and things in the media, and made them really funny. “That’s what we want to tell people: This guy had a really funny outlook in life.” What the play doesn’t do, is concentrate on the attack itself. While a number of the friends discussed what happened in their interviews (some were also at the Ariana Grande concert with Martyn), Adam “made a very clear decision that [those stories] wasn’t going on stage”. “Those are their personal stories,” he says. “We never talk about what happened in the arena, we talk about Martyn’s life, not his death. That’s how we keep his legacy going on.” That’s not to say ‘#BeMoreMartyn’ isn’t without its emotional moments. During one scene, a character recalls the last time he saw Martyn, stating that he feels glad they had danced and laughed at a party. It’s a sudden bittersweet line, nestled in a script that spends most of its time focused on inspiring raucous laughter. “There are moments that are really moving and sad,” Adam admits. “But whenever we have a scene that is sad, we always make sure that we uplift the audience straight away, and we’ll have a mad scene about Eurovision. “It’s important to have those moments to reflect and allow the friends to say on stage, ‘I miss Martyn’. But also, we also want this celebration to continue and I think we’ve struck the right balance. “You’ve got to have those moments where you go, ‘He’s not here anymore’, and we’re remembering him, but that doesn’t mean the audience have to leave a crying wreck.” Hope Theatre Company
All eyes have turned to the northwestern part of the country, where cases of Ebola virus disease emerged this month, leading to an outbreak declaration and quickly posing a "very high" public health risk Though it's too early to determine what the outcome of this outbreak could be and how wide it could spread, there is one aspect that many experts agree on: The world seems better prepared than ever to fight this outbreak. "We are hearing about this and supporting a response to it much more quickly than the three-country outbreak in 2014-16," said Dr. Anne Schuchat, principal deputy director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention The Ebola outbreak in West Africa between 2014 and 2016 was the largest and most complex on record since the virus was discovered in 1976 JUST WATCHED Remembering the deadliest Ebola outbreak Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering the deadliest Ebola outbreak 03:00 That outbreak , which started in Guinea and spread to Sierra Leone and Liberia, saw more cases and deaths than all other Ebola outbreaks combined, according to the World Health Organization. During that outbreak, a total of 28,616 cases of Ebola virus disease and 11,310 deaths were reported in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone -- as well as an additional 36 cases and 15 deaths that occurred when the outbreak spread outside of those three countries, according to the CDC. Then, "there were lots of criticisms of the WHO response," Schuchat said. Now, however, WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus already has visited the affected areas. "The political level at the national, regional and global level is committed to support this," Schuchat said of WHO's response this year. Additionally, "the Democratic Republic of Congo has had Ebola outbreaks before. This is the ninth one. This is a serious one in that it's not just in a rural area but has reached an urban area, but there is more familiarity with the disease and syndrome than there was in West Africa," Schuchat said. Also, in the 2014-16 outbreak, research was just beginning to test Ebola vaccines and drug candidates in humans. "We now have very good experience with one of the vaccines that was tested in the ring vaccination trial in Guinea and was also tested in large studies in Sierra Leone and Liberia, and appears to be very effective and very safe," she said. "We don't have licensed vaccines or drugs yet, but we have very promising vaccine and drug candidates." 'We now have tools' Authorities are distributing the experimental Ebola vaccine rVSV-ZEBOV in Mbandaka, a city of nearly 1.2 million people in northwestern Congo's Equateur province. In the 2014-16 outbreak, researchers were in the very early stages of developing possible vaccines, and testing began only in the final days of that outbreak. Between 2015 and 2016, the rVSV-ZEBOV vaccine was given to people in Guinea who were in contact with patients who had recently confirmed cases of Ebola virus disease, according to a study on that trial published in the journal The Lancet A health worker prepares an Ebola vaccine to administer to health workers during a vaccination campaign in Mbandaka, Congo. "The rVSV vaccine was used in the ring vaccination program in Guinea," said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , who oversees an extensive research portfolio that includes studies on the Ebola virus. "Ring vaccination means you identify someone who has Ebola, and you identify the contacts of that person and the contacts of the contacts, and you vaccinate them with the rVSV vaccine. That is the major difference between the beginning of the outbreak in West Africa and what we're seeing now," Fauci said. JUST WATCHED The death of Ebola? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The death of Ebola? 01:32 "We had no tools then, and by the time we had the vaccine ready to test, most of the cases had burned out," he said. "We now have tools." The doses that Merck sent to WHO to help in the current outbreak were donated. Spokeswoman Pam Eisele said Tuesday that the company plans to file for licensure of the vaccine next year. "We can now give this vaccine to people at most risk of getting Ebola, such as health care workers treating Ebola patients and contacts of Ebola cases. The hope is that this would contain the spread of the virus. The key difference in this latest outbreak here is that the vaccine is being used in the early stages of the epidemic," said Connor Bamford, a postdoctoral research assistant with the Medical Research Council at the University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research in Scotland. On the other hand, "vaccines aren't so effective at curing you of a disease if you are already infected," he said. "There are no such licensed antiviral medicines against Ebola. There are, however, experimental drugs available." The experimental drugs that offer hope Experimental Ebola drugs -- including ZMapp, favipiravir and GS-5734 -- are available for Congo's Ministry of Health to access if needed to treat patients in the current outbreak. In 2014, ZMapp was used to treat two American missionary workers , Dr. Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol, who contracted Ebola in Liberia. Previously, the experimental drug had been tested only in monkeys. JUST WATCHED Survivor describes living through Ebola Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Survivor describes living through Ebola 01:47 A study published last year in the Journal of Infectious Diseases reported a case in which a newborn contracted an Ebola virus infection from its mother; the baby was treated with both ZMapp and GS-5734 and survived. The patient was the first newborn known to survive a congenital infection with Ebola virus. GS-5734 "is a drug that we have experience with because we have a protocol that we implemented in West Africa where we tried to suppress or eliminate the residual Ebola virus in the semen of survivors ," Fauci said. That protocol is still being used in West Africa. "The minister of health of the Democratic Republic of the Congo has requested accessibility to that antibody," Fauci said. "We are willing to provide mAb114 to them, and we are working with the health authorities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in coordination with the WHO to determine if this is feasible." JUST WATCHED How the experimental Ebola serum Zmapp works Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How the experimental Ebola serum Zmapp works 02:32 Bamford pointed out that these experimental drugs are offering hope for controlling not only the current outbreak but outbreaks to come. "We should strive to get antivirals for Ebola licensed not only to save lives but to offer more to communities who might fear that Ebola is incurable and would otherwise not report their infection to authorities," he said. "Antivirals provide hope to those infected, and perhaps ZMapp, favipiravir and GS-5734 are those medicines, but we don't know yet." Though many of those drugs were used in the 2014-16 outbreak and showed promise, questions remain about their clear effectiveness in decreasing either symptoms or likelihood of death, said Dr. Bruce Ribner, a professor at the Emory School of Medicine who led the university's team in treating Ebola patients in 2014. He was among the five Ebola doctors listed that year as Time magazine's Person of the Year "The only clear difference that I see between this outbreak and the 2014-2016 outbreak is the more robust response to this outbreak that was lacking in the spring of 2014, with the earlier introduction of vaccines, therapeutics and outside health care workers to assist," Ribner said. "We are also somewhat more fortunate in that the Congo has lived with Ebola." 'Each new outbreak teaches us a new lesson' Ebola is endemic to Congo, and this is its ninth outbreak of Ebola virus disease since the discovery of the virus near the country's Ebola River. "So they are extensively experienced in how to handle an Ebola outbreak," Fauci said. JUST WATCHED The origin of the Ebola virus Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The origin of the Ebola virus 02:28 Compared with the 2014-16 outbreak, "that's a big difference, because in West Africa -- in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea -- that was the first time that they had ever experienced Ebola," he said. Many experts -- including Dr. Susan Kline, an associate professor of medicine at the University of Minnesota Medical School -- hope that the lessons of the 2014-16 Ebola outbreak will not be forgotten. "During the last outbreak, it was felt in retrospect that probably the local, national, international response to the outbreak was not as rapid and as widespread as it needed to have been to prevent the outbreak from becoming so large," said Kline, a member of the Infectious Diseases Society of America's Public Health Committee. "I think people have learned from that experience, that to get an outbreak under control, you really have to work quickly, not only to identify and isolate in Ebola treatment centers and treat patients, but then also do the community outreach work to identify contacts," she said. An ambulance carries the remains of an Ebola victim towards a burial site in Mbandaka, DRC. In response to the Congo outbreak, the US has deployed some Ebola experts from the CDC to help with control efforts, such as screening and tracing Ebola cases, Schuchat said. She added that the CDC has an office in Congo, where workers have shifted their duties to assist in the outbreak. Other organizations also are leading efforts in clinical care and outbreak control, she said, such as Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) UNICEF and USAID Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. All in all, "we know that we have the tools available to control outbreaks now and in the future. We know that we cannot be complacent," Bamford said. "We still do not know all there is to know about the Ebola virus, and each new outbreak teaches us a new lesson, such as the virus' ability to lie dormant in some rare patients where it may flare up years later," he said. "With Ebola, we must expect the unexpected."
(CNN) A manhunt is on in Canada after two men detonated an improvised explosive device, injuring 15 people late Thursday inside a restaurant in Mississauga, Ontario, near Toronto, police said. "There's no indication this is a terrorist attack. There's no indication this is a hate crime," Peel Regional Police Chief Jennifer Evans said during a Friday morning news conference. "At this time, we haven't ruled anything out as we start our investigation." 2 suspects attended the scene, detonated an Improvised Explosive Device within the restaurant. Several injured were taken to local hospital and 3 in critical condition were taken to a Toronto Trauma Centre. pic.twitter.com/yzCT59UVN6 — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018 The suspects walked into the Bombay Bhel Indian restaurant in the city outside Toronto around 10:30 p.m. and detonated the device, police said. They then fled, police believe, in a vehicle, Evans said. Surveillance photos show the men wearing jeans and dark-colored hoodies. One had his face covered with a black cloth, police said. Two parties, including a birthday celebration, were going on at the restaurant at the time of the blast, Evans said. Read More
(CNN) Here's a look at the life of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Personal: Birth date: 1935 Birth place: Safed, Palestine Marriage: Amina Abbas Children: Three sons Mazen (died in 2002), Yasser and Tareq Education: Damascus University, B.A.; Oriental College (in Moscow), Ph.D. Other Facts: His family left the British Mandate area Safed, Palestine, to live in His family left the British Mandate area Safed, Palestine, to live in Syria as refugees in 1948. Abbas laid floor tiles and taught elementary school before earning a law degree. Played an integral role in the forging of the Declaration of Principles, the historic peace accord signed in 1993 by PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel Was the primary force behind the Palestine National Council's decision to work with Israeli peace groups. He is also known as Abu Mazen. (Abu is a slang term to describe the head of a family or father of children.) Timeline: 1959 - Founding member of the Palestinian National Liberation Movement (Fatah), which became the largest political group of the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO). 1964 - Fatah joins the PLO. 1967 - Is appointed to Fatah's Central Committee. 1968 - Joins the Palestinian National Council (PNC). 1980 - Is elected to the PLO's Executive Committee. September 1993 - Accompanies Arafat to the White House to sign the Accompanies Arafat to the White House to sign the Oslo Accords , or the Declaration of Principles. 1995 - Signs the Interim Peace Agreement with Israel. March 19, 2003 - Accepts the position of prime minister of the Palestinian Authority. September 6, 2003 - Resigns as prime minister of the Palestinian Authority. November 11, 2004 - Becomes the chairman of the PLO after Arafat's death. January 9, 2005 - Declares victory in Palestinian presidential elections. May 26, 2005 - Meets with Bush; the first meeting with the Palestinian Authority in the White House since peace talks broke down in 2000. Bush pledges to give the Palestinian Authority $50 million in aid. May 31, 2005 - Undergoes a successful, minor heart procedure in a hospital in Amman, Jordan. February 21, 2006 - Asks Asks Hamas leader Ismail Haniya to assemble a government. Haniya is sworn in in March. June 14, 2007 - Dissolves the government and dismisses Haniya as prime minister. Haniya rejects this and remains the de facto leader in the Gaza Strip. June 15, 2007 - Appoints economist Salam Fayyad as the new prime minister of an emergency Palestinian Cabinet. November 27, 2007 - Attends the Annapolis Middle East Peace Conference, the first formal peace conference sponsored by the US since 2000. Top diplomats and representatives from dozens of countries and organizations also attend, hoping to restart stalled Middle East peace negotiations. April 24, 2008 - Meets with Bush at the White House. January 2009 - Extends his term in office until 2010, citing a clause in the constitution. December 16, 2009 - The PLO's Central Council votes to extend Abbas's term as president indefinitely. May 4, 2011 - Abbas and Abbas and Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal formally adopt a reconciliation agreement during a ceremony in Egypt. September 16, 2011 - Abbas announces during a speech in Ramallah that he will pursue a full Abbas announces during a speech in Ramallah that he will pursue a full United Nations membership bid for Palestine. September 23, 2011 - Abbas submits a statehood application letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. January 3, 2013 - Abbas issues a decree renaming the organization the "State of Palestine." December 31, 2014 - One day after the UN Security Council rejects a resolution calling for Palestinian statehood by 2017, and for Israel to withdraw from the West Bank and East Jerusalem, Abbas applies to join the International Criminal Court. This sets the stage for the Palestinian Authority to possibly pursue war crime complaints against Israel. September 30, 2015 - Addresses the UN General Assembly before the Addresses the UN General Assembly before the historic raising of the Palestinian flag at the United Nations , saying the Palestinian Authority is no longer bound by the Oslo Accords. September 8, 2016 - CNN reports that once-secret Soviet documents, obtained by CNN from the Mitrokhin Archive at Churchill College at the University of Cambridge, CNN reports that once-secret Soviet documents, obtained by CNN from the Mitrokhin Archive at Churchill College at the University of Cambridge, say that Abbas, who completed graduate work in Moscow in 1982, was a KGB agent while he was a member of the PLO in Damascus. Palestinian leaders decry the report as a "smear campaign." September 30, 2016 - Attends the funeral of Israeli statesman Shimon Peres and shakes hands with Israeli Attends the funeral of Israeli statesman Shimon Peres and shakes hands with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu October 6, 2016 - Is hospitalized to have his heart tested. Is hospitalized to have his heart tested. May 3, 2017 - Meets with Meets with US President Donald Trump at the White House. May 28, 2018 - Is released from the hospital after being treated for pneumonia.
(CNN) Nicaragua has instituted a "shoot to kill" policy in dealing with protests that has resulted in an "alarming number of deaths," according to an investigation by Amnesty International. According to the 34-page report, released Tuesday, the government has violated citizens' human rights and not only used "excessive force in the context of the protests, but possibly carried out extrajudicial executions in conjunction with pro-government armed groups." Civil unrest has entered its sixth week in Nicaragua as protests continue throughout the country. At least 76 people have been killed, according to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, with close to 900 injured in what appears to be the largest protests the country has seen since the civil war ended in 1990. Human rights lawyer and Amnesty International Director of Americas Erika Guevara-Rosas said the death toll is now at least 83. The Nicaraguan government has reported 15 dead since the conflict began on April 18 over social security reforms that would increase contributions by workers and employers and reduce retired workers' pensions. The reforms were subsequently reversed by the government, but the unrest has continued. Protesters are calling for the removal of President Daniel Ortega and "democratization" through reforms in the electoral laws, such as advancing the elections. They also demand justice for the fallen victims, calling for an investigation into the violence. Fresh clashes between students and armed groups Multiple social media posts on Monday showed university students clashing with armed groups at the National University of Engineering in Nicaragua, including posts from Guevara-Rosas and Nicaraguan human rights activist Bianca Jagger. According to a witness statement sent to CNN by one of her associates, Jagger saw the conflict from across the street, witnessing armed groups attacking, followed by anti-riot police "shooting live ammunition with AK-47 assault rifles." "They were dressed to look as if they were going to war, except that their targets were young unarmed students," Jagger said. "It was a terrifying scene." Guevara-Rosas said there was a second attack where she also witnessed anti-riot police with heavy weapons beating students and taking them away in pickup trucks. At Hospital Bautista Nicaragua on Monday night, a person on the phone said there were many injuries but said they were too busy to speak and hung up before providing a name. Antonia Urrejola, commissioner of the Managua-based Nicaraguan Center for Human Rights, condemned the clashes at the university, calling for an end to the violence. Heavy police presence was seen Monday morning by a CNN en Español crew on the ground after a radio station, Radio Ya, was set on fire. Rosario Murillo, the country's first lady and vice president, called the incident an "act of hate." One police officer died after being shot while working to "re-establish public order" in the area of the fire, National Police said Monday, adding that their forces were "attacked by a group of hooded men with firearms, mortars and stones." State accused of using armed mobs According to information received by Amnesty, the "Nicaraguan government has used armed individuals or pro-government armed groups that act in collusion with state officials, in particular the National Police, or with their acquiescence or tolerance." Known as Sandinista turbas (or mobs), these pro-government armed groups dress in attire associating them with the state, some riding on motorcycles, the report said. Camera footage, images and numerous interviews with family members, hospitals, human rights organizations and others reviewed by Amnesty show these groups were "apparently used by the government to generate disorder, make threats and carry out attacks." "The authorities have been negligent in their handling of the crisis, in particular President Ortega," Guevara-Rosas said. "People are demanding justice, answers and asking for protection from the security forces but what we are seeing is the opposite: indifference, failure to investigate and to seek justice." "This discourse of denial, this is the head of the systematic political repression. The divisive rhetoric from the President and vice president is as if these students are small groups inciting violence, but we have witnessed these massive groups protesting. They are not small," she added, speaking about the student movement that has been extremely vocal since the beginning of the unrest. Messages from CNN to the National Police and the government remain unanswered. The US Embassy in Managua closed Tuesday in expectation of protests. Embassy personnel were told to avoid the Rotunda Universitaria, the area where all universities are located, because of the "ever-expanding roadblocks and concerns of violence." Students feel brunt of violence, Amnesty says UPOLI, the Polytechnic University of Nicaragua, is "one of the areas where the highest number of attacks on protesters in the country were reported," according to the Amnesty report, which added that in the first five days of protests, more than 400 people were injured, around 311 at or near the university, citing the Nicaraguan Red Cross. Amnesty's investigation concluded that between "19 April and 12 May, 2018, people were arbitrarily deprived of life in the context of the protests and the excessive use of force." Among the acts Amnesty alleges were taken by authorities: media censorship, obstruction, intimidation, failures to conduct proper forensic examinations, improper evidence management, refusals to take family statements and prevention of investigations. Amnesty also said authorities are forcing families to sign a document in which they must waive their right to file complaints before the bodies of their loved ones are handed over. "Based on the pattern identified, a considerable number of casualties could be considered extrajudicial executions," the report said, adding that the deaths happened "with the knowledge of those at the highest level of the Nicaraguan state, including the President." Report recommends independent investigation Based on the investigation's findings, Amnesty said it believes the government's strategy was "intended to punish dissenting voices, discourage further public criticism and cover up human rights violations and crimes under international law." It calls for authorities to respect human rights and the freedom of expression, and demands an independent and impartial group of experts come to the country to investigate the crisis. "The conditions inside the country do not amount for impartial investigations to take place," Guevara-Rosas said. "The organizations have collapsed." A national dialogue between the government and various sectors of society has failed to reach an accord. The Catholic Church, which was serving as mediator, left the talks. A commission was set up with three members from the government and three representatives of the protesters to work out an agreement. Murillo and Nicaraguan Foreign Minister Denis Moncada continue to reaffirm the government's commitment and openness to the dialogue. Lesther Alemán, a student leader, has said the dialogue isn't for compromise but rather for negotiating Ortega's exit.
A veteran NDP MP had his colleagues in stitches Wednesday with colourful criticism of the Liberal government's move to buy Kinder Morgan's Trans Mountain pipeline and the core assets related to its expansion for $4.5 billion. "Liberals do know it's not legal to smoke weed until August, right? Because this idea makes no sense at all," Nathan Cullen said in question period. Cullen rose in the House of Commons to rail against Liberals for buying a "65-year-old pipeline" and expanding its capacity despite objections from many Indigenous communities. "Only Liberals would try to force through a pipeline and tankers through traditional First Nations territory and call that reconciliation. And only this prime minister would call himself a climate change leader and then be willing to spend $15 billion on a diluted bitumen pipeline to China," Cullen said. That $15-billion figure was in reference to an assessment from the National Observer. Cullen even worked in a dig at how Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tends to stick to a careful script when it comes to defending his approach to resource projects. "Watch, he's about to say the environment and the economy must go together," he said. The prime minister noted that Alberta NDP Leader Rachel Notley, whose economic approach federal New Democrats used to "celebrate," is a big fan of the decision. Trudeau said that both his government and Notley's understand the importance of getting resources to new markets and, at the same time, putting a price on carbon pollution. "The economy and the environment go together," Trudeau said. Cullen then highlighted how the prime minister told Bloomberg Tuesday that Kinder Morgan walked away from the table because uncertainty around the project made it "too risky for a commercial entity." "What? If it's too risky for an oil pipeline company to build an oil pipeline, why is it okay for the Canadian public to pick up all of that risk?" he asked. Trudeau again touted how happy the "NDP premier of Alberta" was with Ottawa's decision to support what he called a job-producing project in the national interest.
The controversy surrounding Bee’s comments led to a sponsor withdrawing from her show, many people on social media lambasting her, and even the White House asking that TBS and Time Warner discipline her. Bee has since apologized, saying in a statement to HuffPost: “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it.” Some people have said that the drama has mirrored what happened earlier this week with Roseanne Barr. ABC cancelled the “Roseanne” reboot on Tuesday after the actress made racist remarks about former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett. Barr has since responded to those comparisons by asking people to not compare her to “other people who have said horrible things.” “I only care about apologizing 4 the hurt I have unwittingly & stupidly caused. I humbly confess contrition & remorse. I failed2 correctly express myself, & caused pain2 ppl,” she said in a tweet.
At least it wasn't a text, like the hasty, solitary line that exploded K.S. Narendran's world almost three years ago: "We deeply regret that we have to assume beyond any reasonable doubt that MH370 has been lost and that none of those on board survived." His wife of 25 years, Chandrika Sharma, was one of the 239 people aboard the Malaysia Airlines flight that disappeared after takeoff from Kuala Lumpur en route to Beijing on March 8, 2014. On Tuesday, Narendran learned the search for the missing plane had been suspended. He saw the email a little before noon at his home in the southeastern Indian city of Chennai. "An email is an improvement over an SMS message," he posted on Facebook. "So, small mercies in an otherwise difficult period." K.S. Narendran is no closer to knowing what happened to his wife, a passenger on MH370. Then came the media requests for interviews. India Today, BBC, The Guardian, Deutsche Welle, NPR. He had become a spokesman for the MH370 families. After a group statement on the search suspension was made public, every journalist wanted to know Narendran's reaction. He expressed deep disappointment that the search was over. Anger that the governments of Malaysia, China and Australia had not followed a recent recommendation to search another 25,000 square kilometers north of the last search area. And betrayal: Those governments, he said, had made a commitment to the families of the lost passengers, and now they were reneging. JUST WATCHED The search for MH370 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The search for MH370 01:11 "I sensed my faith in the search and investigation erode precipitously, indeed faith in the entire gamut of institutional arrangements in place globally to keep us safe and secure, reassured that the journeys we undertake will indeed take us to our chosen destinations," he wrote on Facebook. "MH370 didn't make it to Beijing. And we may never know why it didn't. We can never be sure that there will not be another tragedy." The day seemed not to end. A flurry of emotions led to many moments of futility. Suspending the search was in part a message that the world was asking him to move on. As though he could. The next morning, he boarded a plane for a business trip to Mumbai on India's west coast. After MH370, Narendran developed a dread for planes. Sometimes in his seat, he role-plays and goes to a dark place. What was the experience like for his wife? Narendran met his wife in college and the two were married for 25 years. The question consumes him to the point where he, an articulate man with considerable language skills, finds himself at a loss for words. He has to virtually kick himself out of that state and force himself to sleep. It's his only way out. "I don't even wait for the plane's doors to close," he tells me. "I just try to sleep." I first spoke with Narendran a few days after MH370 vanished from the skies. I reached out to him after a mutual friend showed me his Facebook posts, and we have been in touch ever since. This time, we talk two days after he learned of the decision to stop the search. I want to ask him many things, but first he analyzes the mystery of the missing plane. He doesn't understand why the search was called off when debris -- confirmed to be from MH370 -- had been found off the coast of southern Africa. "Common sense would suggest they would be hurrying to go and look there," he says. "It is really puzzling. I have wracked my brain all this time on why then have been such a laggard on this front." That leaves him wondering whether there is truth to conspiracy theories that suggest a cover-up. "Maybe they know more than what was said and they want a closure to this investigation," he says. I can hear the frustration in his voice. I can hear the exhaustion. I ask him about a difficult question a radio interviewer posed the day before: "Have you been able to have any kind of ceremony for her -- funeral?" He attempted to answer: "We have had no ceremony. It's hard to think of one when you don't know ... when was the end? Where was the end?" Narendran and I have discussed this several times in our many conversations via phone, Skype, email and even in person at a Bangalore coffee house. He said in the past that his family and friends suggested some sort of memorial to help him let go, move forward, bring closure and all those clichéd things we say after loss. The truth is he doesn't take kindly to rituals and besides, he wouldn't even know how to begin planning such a ceremony. It would drain his energy, he tells me. And for what? How do you say goodbye to the person you loved most -- without knowing? In the summer of 2015, he initiated the process of obtaining a death certificate for Chandrika. The pragmatic part of him said it was needed to settle insurance policies, bank accounts, property matters and other assets his wife held. All he really had was a message from Malaysia Airlines confirming Chandrika was a passenger on the missing plane. A death certificate would provide documentation. But it has to be issued by a court in Kuala Lumpur, and he is still waiting. One of his unsavory chores is to keep writing to ask about the status, and it adds to a host of other reminders. They include the daily walks he used to take with Chandrika. After she was gone, he often imagined conversations with the woman he met in college and had shared life's joys and disappointments with. Where have you been, Chandrika? Oh, many places. All at the same time. Can you believe that? When will you be back? Your guess is as good as mine. For good. That is. What if I am gone for good? He fantasized about new facts being unearthed that might provide incontrovertible evidence. Then he could say: Case closed, like the ending of a Sherlock Holmes story. Time to move on. But those facts never came, and for almost three years now, Narendran has lived life with crushing uncertainty. There were days that were more jarring than others: when the missing plane was in the news, when debris was found, when the first anniversary came and then the second. And now, the end of the search. But to him, day 364 was the same as day 365. It was another day without her. I sense that perhaps Narendran has begun to move on, however slow the progress. I ask him if he still speaks with his wife. "My conversations lately have been with myself," he says. "What I wish to do with my life. And I don't think I have answers yet." Nor has the uncertainty abated as much as he would have liked. One reason, he surmises, is his role as spokesman for Voice 370, the support group for families of the missing. "That role travels with me 24 hours a day," he says. "It has a way of keeping alive the questions and continues the agonizing. I think the questions about finding answers, finding an explanation that is credible enough, sufficiently substantiated, remains very important. "Why? I have often asked myself the same question. And I don't think I have a very clear answer. The sense of incredulity about all that's happened doesn't just go away. That something like this should ever have happened where there is neither a trace nor understanding or explanation of how this might have happened is very deeply disturbing." Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 There is still no way to know for sure why Flight MH370 ended, but we are learning more about the lives of those on board. CNN is remembering them through snapshots shared with us. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 Rodney and Mary Burrows were looking forward to becoming first-time grandparents after their return home to Australia. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 Australians Catherine and Robert Lawton were traveling with friends on vacation when the flight disappeared. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 Paul Weeks was traveling to Mongolia for a new job as an engineer. His wife says Paul left behind his watch and his wedding ring before the trip, in case anything happened to him while he was away. Anderson spoke with Paul's brother & sister who said they are coping by spending time together as a family. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 Chandrika Sharma, left, was on Flight 370; her daughter Meghna and husband K.S. Narendran wait patiently, trying to manage their anxiety and longing for her return. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 Muktesh Mukherjee and Xiaomo Bai had been vacationing in Vietnam and were on their way home to their two young sons in Beijing. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 76-year-old Liu Rusheng, an accomplished calligrapher and one of the oldest passengers on the flight, was in Malaysia to attend an art exhibition with his wife. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 Teens Hadrien Wattrelos and Zhao Yan are shown in a photo on Wattrelos' Facebook page. The photo is captioned, simply, "I love you," in French. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 Firman Chandra Siregar, 24, studied electrical engineering in Indonesia and was on his way to Beijing on board Flight 370 to start a new job at an oil company. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 Patrick Francis Gomes, center, was the in-flight supervisor for the missing plane. His daughter describes him as a quiet person with a sense of humor. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 Ch'ng Mei Ling, a Malaysian citizen who lives in Pennsylvania, is a process engineer at a chemical company. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Remembering the passengers of MH370 We do not have photos of all 239 passengers, but we wanted to remember that there are loved ones around the world missing them right now. View CNN's complete coverage of Flight 370. Hide Caption 12 of 12 Then there all the relatives and friends who constantly ask him questions or want an update. "Tell me what is happening," they say. "There is always this underlying assumption that the families know something more than the rest of the world. And we don't," he says. So it remains unfinished business. "I also frankly believe there are larger questions of fairness, justice, accountability that can't be so easily put away," he says. "There are levels of agitation and I tell myself: I can't just let this pass. I can't get on with life. I have not flushed my system of MH370." These are the sorts of things Narendran is often not asked about in the myriad interviews he gives. How do you even begin in a 5-minute radio or TV segment? But I have learned about him over the course of our acquaintance. From the beginning, I felt his strength in the quietness of his voice and the power of his words. He is someone who doesn't always emote outwardly -- I've never heard him cry, although on several occasions he has brought tears to my eyes. He tells me that writing about MH370 and his life without Chandrika has helped him enormously. It has forced him to learn about himself. People who suffer great pain or sorrow often find refuge in prayer and hope. Many of the families of MH370 held onto the hope that everyone on that plane was still alive. That included some of Narendan's relatives. But Narendran was not one of them. He found comfort in his writing. It helps him gain insight on how he has been dealing with life after tragedy. The eye cannot see itself, he tells me, quoting Shakespeare. "I need to hear from others on how they see me and then reflect back on what resonates with me." We end our conversation there. What I don't tell him is that I can see he has already done a lot of reflection; that he's already come a long way in his recovery. The search for the missing plane may have ended Tuesday, but what continues is Narendran's quest to find himself again.
Story highlights Katarzyna Mazur spent months photographing a female fight club in Berlin "I enjoy exploring new worlds, especially a world which exists in a gray area," Mazur said (CNN) Under harsh lights in a private, rented room in Berlin, women face each other in violent, sometimes bloody battles of brute strength. There are no official rules to this female fight club. The fighters are both beginners and professionals, anywhere from age 20 to 50, said photographer Katarzyna Mazur , who spent months documenting the club in 2013 and 2014. Led by founders nicknamed Anna Konda and Red Devil, a match might pit a bodybuilder against a martial arts master. They can wrestle, throw punches or "cat fight." There's no judge, just someone who knows the parameters they've decided for the match. The small audience is mostly made up of men, but it's a place for women to shed the roles they play outside. "When I saw this kind of fighting for the first time, I was quite shocked. I had never seen something like that before, and it was really interesting to experience all of this so close," said Mazur, who photographed the fight club as part of her work toward graduation from photography school. "Inhibition and fear do not exist on the mat." Photographer Katarzyna Mazur At first, Mazur said, she shot the fight club in color, but the look of the blue mat and neon lights didn't satisfy her. She shifted to black-and-white images and reduced her point of view, getting as close as she could to the action. Read More
Months after Sridevi's death on February 25, a video has surfaced on Tuesday morning where her husband Boney Kapoor is seen remembering his late wife, speaking fondly of her even as he held back tears. Sridevi had died two months ago after accidentally drowning in a bathtub in Dubai and left the film industry in shock. Boney Kapoor and his two daughters Khushi and Janhvi had collected the National Award for Sridevi that was posthumously awarded to her on May 3. In the video, an emotional Kapoor was seen as saying, "When we got to know about the award, we felt very proud. But at the same time, we've been missing her since she left us," Kapoor is heard saying in the video, before his voice trails off. "Had she been here... she'd have been as proud..." "She worked for 50 years and did 300 films. I miss her every second of my life. I am doing my best to play this double role of Mom and Dad," he said. Janhavi Kapoor, who will be seen in the upcoming film Dhadak, said, "Both of us (Khushi and I) would like to thank the jury for recognizing the hard work, perseverance, and dedication that my mother has put into this role. It was very special to her and we are very happy that she is being appreciated for it." Watch the emotional video here: Also see on HuffPost:
5G is going to be a really big deal. The lightning quick "next generation" wireless technology is expected to power self-driving cars, virtual reality, smart cities and networked robots. But what else can it do? Ericsson (ERIC) has joined up with researchers from King's College London to dream up futuristic applications for 5G. They're looking at everything from music to medicine. The team is focused on using the technology to transfer physical skills across networks, creating something they call the "Internet of Skills." One example: A surgeon with virtual reality equipment and haptic gloves, which sense motion and pressure, could operate on a patient on the other side of the world via a robot. Remote surgery has been possible for a while, but 5G speeds should eliminate all delays and lag. That means the surgeon could get instant feedback via the gloves. "With 5G and the new networking architecture we're building, we're hoping to get this delay down to just the speed of light," said Mischa Dohler, a professor of wireless communications at King's College. Dohler, who moonlights as a composer and pianist, also plans to digitize his piano skills and teach people remotely to master the instrument. Related: What is 5G? Haptic gloves can be used to track and record the movement of Dohler's fingers, and the position of his hands. The data would be stored on the skills database, ready to be downloaded by an aspiring pianist. "They would download that in real time on to an exoskeleton, which would start to move their fingers until the muscle memory is trained," said Dohler. "They could actually practice their muscle memory anywhere they want," he added. Dohler also imagines a surgeon could upload their skills to a database to train students around the world. But he said it might take another decade for this "Internet of Skills" to be fully functional. "We need to get security rights and the best practice of this technology right, because the moment you start moving things on the other side of the planet, you can do a lot of harm," he said.
Jerusalem (CNN) Hamas said Wednesday that Palestinian militant groups would agree to a ceasefire if Israel also agreed to abide by one, following the biggest exchange of fire in Gaza since the 2014 war there. The comments, made by a member of Hamas' political bureau, Khalil Al Hayya, came after militants launched what the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) described as the biggest barrage of rocket and mortar fire from the coastal enclave in years. The IDF said it counted more than 100 launches from Gaza, and it responded with more than 60 airstrikes on targets in the enclave. Al Hayya said in a statement early Wednesday that there had been considerable mediation efforts -- an apparent reference to Egyptian-led talks -- resulting in "a consensus to return to the ceasefire understandings of the Gaza Strip." A picture taken from Gaza on Tuesday shows smoke billowing in the background, following an Israeli air strike. "The resistance factions are committed [to the ceasefire], as long as the Occupation does the same," added Al Hayya, using the militant groups' term for Israel. Israel's Intelligence Minister Israel Katz dismissed suggestions of an agreement. "There is no ceasefire," he told Israeli radio Wednesday morning, adding, "there is a clear Israeli policy not to allow shooting, attacks and violence against Israeli citizens." IDF spokesman Lt. Col Jonathan Conricus told CNN the Israeli military was not aware of any kind of ceasefire either, but added that "quiet will most likely be met with quiet." If militants relaunch attacks on Israel, he said, "terror will be met with a very strong response." There have been no reports of launches or strikes from either side since 5 a.m. local on Wednesday, suggesting a de facto ceasefire had taken hold even if there was no formal agreement. UN Security Council to hold emergency meeting By Wednesday, the IDF said it had launched more than 60 airstrikes targeting the militant groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad. In its final sortie, in the early hours of Wednesday, the IDF said it took aim at "sheds of drones used for terror purposes, a rocket manufacturing workshop, advanced naval weaponry, military compounds, training facilities and a munitions manufacturing site." The IDF said more than 100 mortars and rockets had been fired out of Gaza during the course of Tuesday, all of them either intercepted by the Iron Dome aerial defense system, or landing in Israel. One mortar hit a kindergarten yard just an hour before it was due to open for the day. The Israeli military deploys its Iron Dome defense system, which intercepts short-range fire, on Tuesday. Israel said three of its soldiers were injured, two lightly and a third moderately, in the militant fire. Hamas and Islamic Jihad claimed joint responsibility for the attacks. In a statement issued by the militant groups' armed wings, the Al-Qassam Brigades and the Al-Quds Brigades respectively, the two groups blamed Israel for starting the latest round of aggression and said they had cooperated in launching the attacks because Israel's "crimes could not be tolerated in any way." The IDF's Conricus told CNN Israel was adamant it had not instigated the latest round of violence. "We are not the ones who fired on Gaza first," he said. The confrontations came after weeks of Palestinian protests, known as the Great March of Return, near the fence that separates Gaza and Israel, during which more than 100 protesters were killed by Israeli fire. JUST WATCHED The history of Gaza in 2 minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The history of Gaza in 2 minutes 02:11 An emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council, called by the United States, was expected to take place Wednesday to "discuss the latest attacks on Israel out of the Gaza Strip by Hamas and other militants," said the US Mission to the UN in a statement. "The recent attacks out of Gaza are the largest we have seen since 2014. Mortars fired by Palestinian militants hit civilian infrastructure, including a kindergarten. The Security Council should be outraged and respond to this latest bout of violence directed at innocent Israeli civilians, and the Palestinian leadership needs to be held accountable for what they're allowing to happen in Gaza," US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley said, according to the statement. There were no reports of any fatalities or injuries arising from Israel's airstrikes from either the Palestinian Ministry of Health or from the militant groups themselves. Israel and the United States consider Hamas a terrorist organization.
On New Year’s Eve 2016, after years of berating myself, I finally took the plunge and decided to stop drinking for a year. My drinking wasn’t excessive, but it was enough to fill me with self-loathing and make me tearful and jittery the next day - even after just a couple of glasses. It was time to break ties. Now, as any of you who have tried to give something up - whether it be short or long term - will know it’s pretty daunting. And, when it’s something like alcohol, something that the very fibre of our society hangs on, it’s tougher still. I started by writing a list of 50 reasons to stop. I figured if I could find that many reasons then there was really no excuse to carry on. You can read that hastily scribbled list here. I choose a year because I wanted to give myself a fighting chance and ’forever felt too long, too final. Here’s what I’ve learned... 1. I didn’t feel amazing instantly The first question everyone asks when you stop drinking is ‘Do you feel amazing?’ For me, it was sadly a no. I had expected to leap out for bed looking fresh-faced and consumed with boundless energy, however that wasn’t the case. I envied friends who, after stopping for just a few days in January were already reporting feeling ‘100x better’. The energy took it’s time to arrive but now, a year on, I definitely feel I have more mental energy and am starting to think about what else is possible in my life. 2. Giving up for a year is easier than giving up for a month I found that when I stopped for a month in the past, the social pressure to drink piled on. ‘You have to drink at XYZ,’ or ‘can’t you just add another week on at the end?’ As soon as I told people I was giving up for a year the pressure turned to congratulations. I lost count of the number of people who told me ‘I wish I could do it too.’ 3. The booze-free market is booming I’ve yet to find a credible replacement for wine - everything is too thin, too sweet - BUT there are plenty of great 0% beers out there that can act as a placebo in the early days and I can’t speak highly enough of Tesco’s Virgin G&T’s. Having forgotten what gin tastes like and having failed to get on the Seedlip bandwagon, I asked friends to road test the low alcohol G&T and it got thumbs up all round. At 0.5% alcohol it is technically a non-alcoholic drink but, if you wanted to split hairs, my argument would be that yes, there’s a hint of booze in it - enough to kill the FOMO but not enough to give you a hangover in the morning. 4. It’s a mindset During the past year I’ve attended a two weddings (my brother’s and my best friend’s) a hen weekend in Palma and a week-long holiday in France with three other families. In the past just one of these events would have been a reason not to give up in 2017. But, I knew that if I kept finding social excuses it would never happen. At the start of the year it seemed impossible that I could attend or enjoy those events without alcohol. The truth is I enjoyed them all the more hangover-free. I reasoned that it was no-one else’s business what was in my glass, why should they care? And that thought, somehow, got me through. 5. You find out who you really are After 20+ years of social drinking I wanted to know who I really was without it. That sounds a bit deep, right? I won’t lie, I was pretty disappointed to find that I felt sad and miserable most of the time - was that the lack of booze or had the booze been masking / exacerbating a deeper problem? In the summer I eventually visited the doctor to talk about depression. It turned out I had low iron storage which left me feeling permanently exhausted. Now, as long as I keep on top of that, I feel fine. 6. You are not alone Aside from the public admiration of others I have been amazed by how many people have contacted me privately to say they have also given up drinking or are very close to it. One of the best things about this year has been inadvertently inspiring others. I promise you I am not anti-alcohol - I’ve always said that if alcohol doesn’t affect your life in a negative way then there’s no need to stop. But it’s messages like the one I received this morning (and that finally inspired me to write this blog) that make it all the sweeter; ‘With your inspiration I have decided to do a year booze-free. I am both excited and terrified at the prospect. I need to stop using it as my crutch and the fact I feel the amount I drink is creeping up gradually. I would never had contemplated this last New Year. I envied you when you posted as I didn’t think I could honestly go a week never mind a year. I am so scared but so excited for 2018. I have hid behind it for too long.’ 7. You can do it, you really can Nothing is impossible, certainly not what you choose to pour into a glass and then choose to pour into your mouth. There are a lot of people out there monetising this hot new trend (apparently the Millennials are turning their backs on booze in a big way) but you don’t need to pay to do it. Take one day at a time. One weekend at a time. One social event at a time. Don’t think of the bigger picture. Just get through each day and when you wake up feeling hangover-free, feel bloody proud of yourself and hang onto that feeling. You could also check out this free Club Soda Alcohol Free Facebook group. 8. I’m more confident now that I was before Now this one surprised me. People drink to give them confidence but I see now that I used to hide behind alcohol and wouldn’t mix outside of my small circle. Now, when I’m out, I’ve found that I’m actually interested in having conversations with people - I honestly feel more confident now than I ever did before. Perhaps it’s not worrying about making a fool of myself. Maybe it’s knowing I won’t wake up with ‘the fear.’ Whatever it is, I love it. 9. Everyone wants to know... ‘Are you going to carry on?’ In January last year the thought of never drinking again was too big to contemplate, in some ways it still is. Over the past year I’ve battled backwards and forwards, sometimes feeling ‘ready’ to drink again in 2018, other times scared I’ll just fall back into the old bad habits. All I can say it that right now, waking up hangover and anxiety-free is enough of an incentive to carry on. As a new year approaches I’m thinking of new challenges - I want to get fit again, blog more... and that, is enough for me.
Chika Oduah is an award-winning Nigerian-American reporter, writer and photojournalist. Chika's reporting goes beyond the headlines to explore culture, security, human rights and development in sub-Saharan Africa. She is passionate about helping Africans document their history and has launched a digital archive to preserve Biafran War Memories. The opinions in this commentary are solely of the author's. Lagos, Nigeria (CNN) Fifty-one years ago, a political decision changed the course of my life and I wasn't even born when it was made. After several bouts of ethnic hostilities in Nigeria during which thousands of Igbo people were murdered and chased out of cities, back to their ancestral communities in southeastern Nigeria , leaders from the southeast declared on May 30, 1967 that the region would breakaway from Nigeria and form the Republic of Biafra. Diplomatic efforts to unite Nigeria failed; war spilled out and continued pouring out atrocities for three years. The land of my birth- southeastern Nigeria- collapsed into a battlefield: Nigeria versus Biafra. Most of the Biafrans were like me, Igbo. My mother, an Igbo woman, was a six-year-old child when she ran away from a city in central Nigeria where Igbo people were being "slaughtered like chickens," as my grandmother told me. Bala Mohammed, a Nigeria soldier who recounted his experiences fighting against Biafra for the Nigerian army. Mom journeyed with her mother and siblings from one town to the next, fleeing Nigerian soldiers. She ended up in a camp where children died of malnutrition everyday. My father, also Igbo, didn't run. He stayed in his village, a hamlet nestled in a dense forest resting on the bank of the Niger River. It became a refuge of hundreds of Igbo families who had nowhere else to go. No one knows how many people died in the war and the Nigerian government has never presented an official death toll of it. Neither has the United Nations but estimates range from one to three million. Relatives I never knew disappeared and no one held funerals for them. Members of the disabled Biafran War veterans organization in Nigeria. Today, my mother can't stand cramped, windowless spaces, like small elevators or an MRI machine. In them, her heart pumps faster and she feels like the walls are falling on top of her. She thinks she's now claustrophobic because of the underground bunker she and her family had to stay in to hide from the frequent shelling during the war. If the war hadn't happened, my father wouldn't have permanently left Nigeria. This week, I asked him why he never went back to live in Nigeria and he told me, "The war was an eye-opener to us Igbo people, of our position in Nigeria as third-class citizens, even up till now." After the war, dad had applied for bank jobs in Nigeria but was always told that though he was qualified for them, he couldn't get them because he is Igbo. So he moved to America. May 30 is Biafra Day, a day when some Igbo people remember the declaration of the Republic of Biafra. In recent years, this day has become violent as pro-Biafran activists come face-to-face with Nigerian security forces. Amnesty International said 150 activists died on Biafra Day in 2016. The Nigerian Biafran War is a controversial history that many are still unwilling to talk about and if you do talk about it, you could be seen as unpatriotic, especially if you're Igbo. I grew up in the United States with absolutely no knowledge of this war, until one afternoon when my mother and I were in the kitchen of our home in a suburb in Atlanta. My mother said she used to be a refugee and it was the way she said it that stayed with me. It was her anguished description of a time that I could not understand that drove me to try to understand it. I was a teenager and I was left wondering what she was talking about. Refugee? How? When? My biggest question was this: Why did I not even know about this war, the first televised war in history...a war that even provoked Apple co-founder Steve Jobs to question the existence of God? Why did it take a random afternoon chat with my mom in an American suburb for me to find out? Years later, I learned the answer. I grew up in Atlanta, Georgia as the firstborn of Nigerian parents. In my quest to formulate my identity, I carried kente tote bags to school and wrapped my hair in head ties like the American soul singer Erykah Badu. "N****r go back to Africa", "African-booty-scratcher", "do Africans live in trees?" I heard it all in school and brushed the ignorance off like it was dust on my shoulder. I grew up with a longing for knowledge about the African continent, but in school, there wasn't much beyond the Egyptian pyramids, the trans-Atlantic slave trade and King Shaka Zulu. That's about it. A continent with pre-human bones dating back seven million years, where early societies developed agricultural and engineering techniques still being used today, a land of about two thousands languages and countless spiritual traditions was reduced to scanty paragraphs in a Houghton Mifflin Harcourt textbook. I soon observed that in the schools I attended, Africa was mostly ignored and scorned. When I pressed my teachers more about the history of African countries, they'd recommend books written by Westerners. That's when it clicked. I got the answer I had been searching for. History is political, because it's about power and the victor, the conquered and the conqueror, the 'savage' and the 'civilized' and in the telling of Africa's history, 'savages' and losers don't write history so the names of many philanthropists, teachers, healers, artists, activists, scientists, creators, queens and kings of societies in Africa have ceased to exist. Victims of war don't get to write the paragraph in the textbooks. Massacres have been erased from time lines. Between 1904 and 1908, thousands of tortured Herero and Nama peoples in present-day Namibia fell at the hands of German troops in what has been described as the first genocide of the 20th century. None of this is taught in the schools I went to, but I learned about another genocide: the Jewish Holocaust. Beyond Biafra, there are so many moments of history in Africa that need more documentation by Africans to capture the way people experienced them. Africans, we have to document our history. We must talk to our elders and cultural custodians to know what came before us. We should ask them to give us first-hand factual accounts of the past. Then, write it down. We must write it down. We can't rely on our oral storytelling tradition. We must write with pen and paper and keyboards, blogs and Facebook pages. Our history is being buried every time an elder dies. But we can stop our history from being buried. I've begun asking the elderly about the Nigerian Biafran War. I sit down and ask them questions on camera. I listen to them talk about eating rats and dropping bombs on marketplaces. Then, I upload the interviews online on a digital archive that I created in 2017 called Biafran War Memories I upload the interviews so that my children's children may know what happened in their ancestral lands, before they were born.
This is part one of a two-part feature. Part 2: How to detox from a sodium habit you may not know you have Thoughts of these foods can make our tongues dance as we anticipate satisfying our salty cravings. There's just one problem: The amount of sodium we consume from these and other processed foods is more than what is considered healthy. What's more, cutting back on salt in the processed foods we eat could help us live for many more years -- even if we are healthy. "The Western diet is way too high in sodium. ... People eat way too much, and it increases your risk for cardiovascular disease, stroke and stomach cancer," said Sonya Angelone, a registered dietitian who specializes in cardiovascular nutrition and is the media spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Research also suggests that too much salt can negatively affect bone health in young girls and postmenopausal women. A 'salty' condiment Angelone, who previously chaired the nutrition committee for the American Heart Association's San Francisco chapter, said that excess salt is harmful to the cardiovascular system in two ways. For one, though its effects vary among individuals, too much sodium can raise blood pressure. "Some (people) are sodium-sensitive and can't eat more than 1,500 milligrams per day (equivalent to less than three-fourths teaspoon of salt), or their blood pressure will go up," she said. But even if you are not sensitive to sodium and are generally healthy, you may still be putting your health at risk by consuming excess salt. "A high sodium intake can damage the natural ability of blood vessels to dilate and increase blood flow to tissues," said Dr. Frank Sacks, professor of cardiovascular disease prevention in the Department of Nutrition at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. "It boils down to having a healthy endothelial lining -- a one-cell-lined-thick layer that lines your arteries," Angelone explained. "Too much sodium stiffens cells that line arteries and keeps them from releasing nitric oxide, which keeps arteries flexible." In fact, the more sodium we consume, the greater the risk of heart disease. According to one recent study published in the journal Circulation, for every 1,000 milligram increase in sodium intake, the risk of cardiovascular disease increases by 17% Some people may experience bloating when consuming too much salt, which can contribute to bags under your eyes, puffiness in your face and swelling in your fingers. "If you consume a lot of sodium, your rings might get tight," Angelone said. That's because sodium acts like a sponge in the body, absorbing fluid. "The more salt in your diet, the more fluid and the more volume of blood your heart has to pump through your arteries." Sodium recommendations According to the American Heart Association, our bodies need only a small amount of sodium -- less than 500 milligrams per day, about the equivalent of the sodium in a half-cup of chicken broth -- in order to function properly. Yet most of us consume about seven times that: more than 3,400 milligrams of daily sodium, the equivalent of more than 1.5 teaspoons of salt per day, or the amount in almost four tablespoons of regular soy sauce. The most recent US government dietary guidelines recommend that all individuals limit sodium intake to 2,300 milligrams per day, or the amount in about one teaspoon of salt. A limit of 1,500 milligrams per day is no longer recommended for high-risk groups including those with heart disease, kidney disease and diabetes, according to a recent report from the Institute of Medicine, as "evidence of both benefit and harm is not strong enough to indicate these subgroups be treated differently from the general US population," explained committee chairman Dr. Brian Strom. Yet the more recently published Circulation study found a progressive decline in cardiovascular disease events among those with lowered sodium levels -- even as low as 1,500 milligrams. In fact, the American Heart Association still recommends a limit of no more than 1,500 milligrams of sodium per day for most adults. "Several trials clearly demonstrated that lower sodium intake down to 1,500 milligrams decreases blood pressure more than lowering sodium to 2,500 to 3,000 milligrams," said Sacks, who is also on the American Heart Association's sodium reduction task force and is an association spokesman. "This is especially important in people who have higher risk of heart attacks and strokes, those who are over 60 years old and those with hypertension." Though recent research has suggested that very low levels of sodium might cause harm, "those studies which purport harm at low levels of intake are fundamentally flawed," said Dr. Lawrence J. Appel, who authored the Circulation study and is director of the Welch Center for Prevention, Epidemiology, and Clinical Research at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions. "Most of these papers use single 'spot' collections of urine from a single void, which do not represent usual intake over the long-term." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Turlock, California (CNN) It was all going well for Democrat Josh Harder before he walked up to Stephanie Bull's door. Harder was canvassing here in the southern reaches of the district he hopes to represent in Congress when the Turlock native was once again asked to take on a nagging question: Are you really from here? It's an issue that has badgered the 31-year-old venture capitalist ever since he decided to try to oust Rep. Jeff Denham, a Republican who was swept into Congress on the Tea Party wave of 2010. And it highlights an important inflection point in the fight to represent California's 10th Congressional District, where both Democrats and Republicans in the heavily agricultural area are proud of having a separate identity from their more economically prosperous neighbors in nearby San Francisco, San Jose and Oakland. That desire has forced all three top candidates (there are seven total) to defend their ties to the district. The questions matter because this race is key to Democrats' hopes of taking back the House later this year. While Denham won reelection in 2016, President Donald Trump lost this district to Hillary Clinton by three percentage points, making Modesto, Turlock and a slew of other towns one of 23 areas in the country where Clinton won yet Republicans maintained control of the congressional seat. That has national Democrats eager to score a win in the valley, where voters on June 5 will pick two candidates to move onto November's general election. Denham is staking his candidacy on a push to force his own party leadership in Congress to take a vote on immigration reform, a national issue that is especially resonant in the district because instability in farm labor can have a direct impact on the farms that power the area. But voters in the district, some of whom with no ties to the farm industry, are also eager for candidates to prove their ties to the region. "You are not from Turlock, right," Bull, a 39-year-old mother of two, directly asked Harder, who proceeded to give his now familiar spiel of growing up the son of an optometrist before leaving for college at Stanford University and later Harvard University. He usually frames his time at Bessemer Venture Partners, a venture capital firm that is touted as the oldest in the United States, as time spent growing other businesses and now refers to himself as a part-time teacher because of his job teaching a class at Modesto Junior College. "No," he said incredulously, like a man who has had to defend his roots countless times. "I was born here!" Though Harder denies it, the questions clearly bother the first-time candidate. He often references his Turlock family in conversation and the first line of his campaign website talks about his great grandfather joining a wagon train to Manteca a century ago. But Bull wasn't buying it. "I want to vote for someone who is going to represent people in our area," said the Democrat sitting on her porch as her husband, John, took a chainsaw to a nearby tree. "Not people from the Bay Area." While Harder is questioned about his time spent in the Bay Area, Denham, an imposing 50-year-old multi-millionaire who made his money running Denham Plastics in Salinas, is cast by his Democratic opponents as a coastal elite who only came to Stanislaus County to run for office years ago. Likewise, Michael Eggman, the other top Democrat in the race, has been nagged by questions about his home in Fresno County. Eggman, who is a third-generation beekeeper from the district, has explained the issue by saying his main residency is in Turlock, but he and his wife bought the house so his wife, a flight attendant, could more easily commute to Los Angeles for her job. Virginia Madueño, the former mayor of Riverbank who is another Democrat running in the primary, was born in Modesto and has sought to raise questions -- albeit subtly -- about Eggman and Harder's ties to the district. "I am not somebody who is new to the district," she told CNN. "I am not somebody who left and came back to try to establish a name and a relationship. I have been here." Political operatives in the area explain it as voters wanting to have a separate identity from their neighbors. "The Valley has a bit of a chip on its shoulder that we play second fiddle to the Bay and LA in state politics," said a top local Democrat supporting Eggman. "So they want someone they know is going to be a strong advocate for regional interests." The beekeeper vs. the venture capitalist Where Harder is polished and clean cut, Eggman is rough and rugged. Though both speak highly of each other, they have little personally in common, a fact that contributed to Eggman's decision months ago to complicate Harder's run and try for a chance to challenge Denham for a third time. "His profile just doesn't fit this district and that is why I am running again," Eggman said of Harder while standing over roughly 500,000 bees in a dozen box hives surrounded by a Turlock almond orchard. The image is intentional and crafted. It would be impossible to avoid the fact that Eggman is a beekeeper. His lawn signs are adorned with a bee buzzing in the California sun and in a slight against Denham -- whose signs read "Local Farmer" in block letters -- some of Eggman's now feature "Real Local Farmer" next to the bee. A protester holds a sign outside of a casual "Coffee and Conversation" with U.S. Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA) at the Riverbank Teen Center on May 9, 2017 in Riverbank, California. Eggman drives around in an aging pick-up truck named Jethro with no air-conditioning, a permanently down passenger window and GMC is faintly spray-painted on the back. And he will happily attack Denham's ties to the district. When an aide casually mentioned that Denham's company is based in Salinas, Eggman chimed in. "By the coast," he said, a not-so-subtle hint that things are vastly different 100 miles away. Eggman said it was conversations in these orchards with the predominantly Latino farmhands that convinced him to run another time. "When I work, I get results. When they work, they get results," Eggman said. "So they take issue with someone that talks a lot but doesn't deliver any results. They are saying it is time for a new jefe." But to some Democrats in the district, the bee farmer has the stain of a losing candidate on him after losing to Denham in 2014 and 2016. "I think it is pretty clear that we can't lose this district a third time in a row," Harder said in between door knocking stops. "And I think what we have seen is a real rallying around our campaign to actually make sure we actually beat Denham." Trump's election and subsequent time in office, often defined by rhetoric on immigration that has alienated some Republicans and activated other non-traditional voters, has both Democrats believing now is the time they can take down Denham. "Trump changed everything," Eggman said. "And the fact that Denham has voted with Trump over 97% of the time." Harder agreed but said, in a subtle knock against Eggman,v that no previous campaign has held Denham accountable. "Denham talks like a moderate (but) he votes like a radical," Harder said. 'A farmer from the district' After stepping out of church at House Modesto on Sunday, Denham was as confident as his aides say he always is. It's a confidence that comes with winning reelection routinely but belies his position as a vulnerable Republican running for re-election. Denham is making immigration a cornerstone of his campaign to represent the over 40% Latino district. By using an arcane Congressional rule known as a "discharge petition," Denham is looking to force a vote on a plan that finds a permanent solution to recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, a Barack Obama-era program that Trump ended. The fate of the program, which offered protected status to children brought to the United States illegally, is tied up in the courts, but Denham wants to force Republicans to take on the hot button issue and, then, tout himself as an immigration reform champion. By taking on immigration, Denham is tackling an issue that animated Trump's presidential campaign and putting himself at odds with the President whose tenure has put pressure on him. "You have to fight for what you believe in and I think this is something that has to get done," he said of his push in Modesto. "I'm willing to stand up to my own party." Democrats like Harder and Eggman laugh at comments like this. "It is nothing more than an election year tactic, which we have seen before from him," Eggman said. But Denham says he is unmoved by their calls of political opportunism. "Look, if this issue costs me my reelection but we get it done, I'll be happy with that," he said. "I just want to get it done." Rep. Jeff Denham talks with constituents during a casual "Coffee and Conversation" Though the congressman won reelection in 2016, he said he was taken aback by the "drastic change" in Democratic interest in the district in recent years. "People who have never voted for came out and voted and it really showed me that we have a lot of people to talk to," he recalled. Democrats have accused Denham of dodging his constituents, pointing to one event he did last year that resulted in pointed questions and protest. Denham, who is a shoe in to move on after the June primary, is staking his campaign on a mix of loyalty, both to Trump and from his constituents, his recent immigration push, and his branding as a "local farmer" who grows almonds. Despite his own ties outside the district, Denham argued on Sunday that he has won because Democrats "continue recruiting people up from outside our area" to run. "This is my community," he said. "We go to church here, we shop here, my kids have gone to school here." When asked whether he was worried more this year than in previous years, he pointedly took a shot at his competition. "When they find a farmer from the district," he said with a smile, "then things will get difficult."
MAXIME DAIGLE/INSTAGRAM; ALLAIN SAVOIE Maxime Daigle and Allain Savoie represent a new generation of shellfish processing entrepreneurs at La Maison BeauSoleil. NEGUAC, Canada ― When the harbors aren’t frozen, Maxime Daigle and his older brother Jean-Francois often take to the cold waters off New Brunswick in one of their family’s flat-bottomed boats to harvest oysters. The siblings are among hundreds of producers along this rocky coast who grow oysters for La Maison BeauSoleil in the company’s distinctive floating bags. For the Daigles this is a family business. Maxime’s father, Maurice, co-owns La Maison BeauSoleil, an oyster grower, packer and distributor that he runs with his business partner, Amédée Savoie, whose son, Allain Savoie, also works in the company. When the business started growing and selling oysters from the coastal village of Neguac, at the southern end of the Acadian Peninsula, each wooden box was painstakingly packed by hand. That was 18 years ago. La Maison BeauSoleil ― called simply BeauSoleil within the seafood business ― has since become Canada’s largest producer of cocktail-sized oysters. Demand for its tasty, teardrop-shaped product is at an all-time high. While the company is working hard to keep up, business as usual isn’t cutting it. So a new generation of robots is coming. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube While details are still closely guarded, the company is developing a state-of-the-art automated sorting and packing line that will revolutionize its business. Software-controlled robots, able to mimic the small, complicated movements of human oyster pickers, will give the company a new competitive edge, says Savoie, and allow them to double production. This is the type of investment and technology that has often been missing from this country’s traditional fishing economy. Many of Atlantic Canada’s rural coastal communities have been treading water since overfishing caused cod to collapse in the 1990s, and falling further behind could signal the end for the region’s historic way of life. But this is a family business, and the co-owners are trying to build a legacy for their children in this remote region. Karen Pinchin Amédée Savoie owns and runs La Maison BeauSoleil, Canada's largest producer of cocktail-sized oysters. According to a recent report from Ryerson University’s Brookfield Institute, 62 percent of resource-sector jobs, including those in the fisheries, are vulnerable to automation. While profoundly needed by most production-oriented industries, that isn’t always a good news story in a small town like Neguac, says Creig Lamb, a study co-author. “There’s an understanding that automation is happening and you either adapt or perish,” he says. “The danger is that the people who either don’t want to or can’t acquire the new skills that are required, they’re the most vulnerable.” Helping these workers, like BeauSoleil’s oyster packers, can be a major challenge, he says. But while many fear losing jobs to technological change, many industry observers ― including the Daigles and Savoies ― say a revolution can’t come soon enough. Creepy Robots Shellfish is not an easy sector to automate, particularly in a region like New Brunswick where fisheries harvest a hugely diverse range of species. While the same robot can be used to manufacture different types of cars or computers, for example, the physical differences between a crab and a lobster, or a shrimp and a scallop, mean the processing equipment needed is often radically different. But innovation is happening. A few years ago, a short, slightly grainy video with the creepy vibe of a horror film was quietly posted online by a mechanical engineer. The video shows a robot methodically picking up a leggy snow crab by its central shell and depositing it into a clamp. With eerie precision, a round, spinning blade descends and rapidly dismembers the animal’s leg sections from its body. That robot is now in commercial testing. It was developed by the St. John’s, Newfoundland-based Canadian Centre for Fisheries Innovation, a nonprofit organization owned by Memorial University. Managing Director Robert Verge says this type of device has been badly needed by processors in the region for a long time. Another issue the shellfish industry faces is the seasonality of Canada’s fisheries. A million-dollar robot doesn’t provide great return on investment if it’s only used a couple of months a year. Karen Pinchin Leola Plourde is over 60 years old and belongs to an older cohort of shellfish packers. In coastal New Brunswick, like many rural Atlantic communities long kept afloat by seasonal employment in fish processing plants or on boats, demographics are becoming increasingly dire. Young people “vote with their feet,” as Verge says, by moving west and to more urban communities. The workforce is plummeting as demand for Canadian seafood spikes. Between 2011 and 2016, the region saw the biggest decline in the proportion of people aged 15 to 64 since 1871, according to Statistics Canada, and the largest increase in the proportion of seniors. This sounds familiar to BeauSoleil’s Savoie, who says fish plant work often requires long days and physically demanding, repetitive tasks. Right now, two of his best oyster packers are over 60 years old. “[They] have all said to their children, ‘Don’t do what we do, go for something else,’ and I don’t blame them,” he says. He’s concerned about finding enough workers, as well as competition on price and consistency from overseas producers. “If industry doesn’t [adapt] in the next 10 years, there’ll be bigger problems,” Savoie says. Anything You Can Do, It Can Do Better (Maybe) Back when BeauSoleil first hit the North American market, oysters were typically sold by weight, so number counts didn’t matter. But as the company made a name selling its bite-sized, individually priced oysters into a seemingly insatiable market, the importance of getting the right number in each box became increasingly important. It invested in cutting-edge optical sorting machines from France in 2005 and was the first Canadian company to adapt the technology for use with oysters. In 2004, the company sold 25 tons of oysters; in 2017, it sold 800 tons. The company currently employs about 50 people, says Savoie, and spends the equivalent of about $776,000 on wages every year. Without new so-called “pick and place” automation on its processing line, capable of packing boxes like a human worker, they’re at the point where growth is nearly impossible. Plus, robots don’t make errors the way humans often do. “Human beings aren’t able to judge [precise measurements] perfectly,” software developer Michel Caissie says in French. He owns Infraprotech, the company contracted by BeauSoleil to program its new robots. Karen Pinchin For 18 years, La Maison BeauSoleil has packed its oysters in blue-stamped, handmade wooden boxes. Three years ago, when this project with BeauSoleil started, Caissie’s devices identified a whopping 29 individual human movements in the packing process, including picking an oyster up, measuring it, looking at it and eventually placing it in the box. “Just to pick one oyster takes three-quarters of a second,” Savoie says. “That times 12 million oysters [the number they ship each year] ― that’s a lot of time.” Then there’s the cost to human bodies. Automating the simplest, yet most straining tasks done by humans can dramatically reduce risk of workplace injury, says Caissie, whose software calculates where the most acute dangers are. “We can’t continue working this way. The process isn’t adapted to human beings,” Caissie says. “That’s why people don’t like this work.” Still, robots are fallible, and Savoie has been careful to build in workstations where humans can still pack boxes of oysters ― just in case the robots break down. Not A Fear Of Change; Fear Of Loss Of Control At a recent international seafood show in Boston, BeauSoleil bought a $7,000 waterproof remotely operated vehicle that can be used to locate oyster bags sunk to the ocean bottom for winter storage and help the company drill more accurately into the rocky seabed. Maxime Daigle used it a couple of weeks ago and was thrilled to discover a cache of oysters that had drifted away from its GPS marker. He’s excited by the potential that technological advances, including automation, have for his industry. Karen Pinchin Maxime Daigle often takes to the cold waters off New Brunswick in one of his family's flat-bottomed boats to harvest oysters.
'One of the best products in the world' When billionaire John Paul Dejoria first started John Paul Mitchell Systems, he was living in his car. "I'd just left a relationship that I was in," Dejoria recalled in an interview with CNNMoney. "I had very little money." But he'd been working in the hair care industry for five years, and was ready to start a business of his own. He scrounged together $350, and teamed up with his friend hairstylist Paul Mitchell, who contributed another $350. They set up a PO Box and an answering machine at a friend's house. Then they started selling shampoo and conditioner door-to-door. By then, Dejoria was already used to facing challenges. His father left his family before Dejoria turned two, and he spent a few years in a foster home when his mother became ill. "I always worked," he said. "At seven years old I would sell boxes I made at the Variety Boys Club." As an adult, Dejoria sold encyclopedias door-to-door. "With no appointments and no leads, a lot of doors were slammed in our face," he recounted. The experiences helped prepare him to launch John Paul Mitchell Systems in 1980. "I realized how to overcome rejection." And Dejoria believed in his product. "I knew we had one of the best products in the world," he said. He faced rejection after rejection, but stayed positive. The trick, he explained, was to "be as enthusiastic on beauty salon number 101, or beauty salon number 110 or number 5, as I was on the very first one." Eventually, the hard work paid off. After two years, Dejoria and Mitchell were able to pay their bills on time. "We knew we made it," he said. "Now, on to bigger and better things." The business flourished. Today, John Paul Mitchell Systems sells more than 80 products, and Paul Mitchell Schools, which helps train barbers, estheticians and cosmetologists, has more than 100 locations. Nine years after he had set up the hair care empire, Dejoria was ready for a new challenge. 'Tequila of the future' In 1989, Dejoria and his friend Martin Crowley were drinking margaritas at Dejoria's house. The alcohol, Dejoria recalled, was "a little rough." Crowley was heading to Mexico for a business trip, and Dejoria asked him to bring back better tequila. "I said, 'Martin, when you go down there, try and find ... what the aristocrats drink and bring us back a bottle.'" Crowley did, and told Dejoria he had met a tequila chef who could whip up an even smoother tequila. Patrón Spirits International was born. Once again, Dejoria found himself facing rejections. "Nobody would take us on because it was too expensive," Dejoria said. While other high-end tequilas were selling for about $14, Dejoria remembered, Patrón was priced at $38 a bottle. "We had to convince a wine distributor to take it," Dejoria said. Once again, "we went out ourselves and knocked on doors." They took their tequila to bars, and poured out shots for bartenders. "They said, 'Wow, that's really good.' We said, 'It's the tequila of the future,'" Dejoria said. Eventually, the business started growing. In its first year, Patrón produced 1,000 cases of tequila. Over time, that number ballooned to 2 million. "People realized it's okay to pay a few dollars more if you treat yourself," Dejoria noted. And suddenly, "Patrón was everywhere." In January, Bacardi agreed to buy Patrón Spirits International for $5.1 billion. Sharing success Dejoria says that "success unshared is failure." "If you don't take a little bit of your time ... to help somebody else out," Dejoria explained, "you're not really a successful human being." For him, "giving, sharing and caring about others and business go hand in hand." He also thinks his achievements would not have been possible without those early difficulties. "A lot of the things that happened that went wrong, really wrong, were experiences and an education," he said. "That education was priceless."
Judy Gold is a stand-up comic in New York, actress, writer and winner of two Emmy Awards. She is the host of the podcast "Kill Me Now," available on CBS' play.it and iTunes or at judygold.com/podcast. Follow her on Twitter @JewdyGold. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. How are you? It must be so exhausting running for President. I hope you're taking good care of yourself. I happened to be flipping through the channels on Thursday night when I saw you talking to Donald Trump at the Republican debate about what you called "New York values." I wasn't sure at first what you meant, but then you explained: "I think most people know exactly what New York values are: socially liberal, pro-gay marriage, pro-abortion, focused on money and the media." For a moment I actually thought Mr. Trump was speechless, but duh, he's a New Yorker like me, and nobody cherishes the First Amendment more than us! Anyway, it's a new day. Judy Gold I bet you saw the building as your plane was landing; it's one of those huge towers downtown by ground zero. Maybe you didn't have enough time, since you never know how the traffic is going to be on the George Washington Bridge when you're driving in from the airport. I live on the Upper West Side and my girlfriend and I are planning to get married as soon as we can find a big enough apartment to comfortably fit all four of us (two kids included). Both our apartments are rent stabilized, so we're taking our time finding the right place. If you're not familiar with the rent laws in New York, you should check them out. n 1997 , our Republican mayor, Rudolph Giuliani, extended rent regulation laws after a big to-do with Republican State Sen. Joseph L. Bruno, who wanted them eliminated. Thank goodness, our mayor had two important allies: Republican State Sens. Roy Goodman of Manhattan and Frank Padavan of Queens, who both agreed with the Democratic-controlled State Assembly. Have you ever been to Queens, Ted? It's the most racially diverse county in the contiguous United States . My favorite Greek restaurant is in Astoria. Do you like Greek food? It's yummy. Asghar, my driver, and I were talking about how many great places there are to eat here in NYC. He was born in Pakistan, and moved here as a baby. He married a woman from Colombia and their two kids are just beautiful, and get this -- they're also tri-lingual! They speak English, Urdu and Spanish. I must admit that I'm a little jealous about that. Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Republican presidential candidates line up on stage before a debate Thursday, January 14, in North Charleston, South Carolina. From left are Ohio Gov. John Kasich, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, Donald Trump, U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, Ben Carson and Jeb Bush. It is the sixth GOP debate of this election cycle and the first of 2016. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Trump, who has been leading GOP polls for months, answers a question during the debate. "I'm very angry because our country is being run horribly, and I will gladly accept the mantle of anger," he said. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Cruz speaks during the debate. The senator from Texas opened the event by talking about the U.S. sailors recently detained by Iran. "Today," he said, "many of us picked up our newspapers, and we were horrified to see the sight of 10 American sailors on their knees, with their hands on their heads. ... I give you my word, if I am elected president, no service man or service woman will be forced to be on their knees, and any nation that captures our fighting men will feel the full force and fury of the United States of America." Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Bush waves to the audience. The former Florida governor has been trying to build momentum that he had in the early stages of his candidacy, and he went after Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton early in the debate. "She's under investigation with the FBI right now," he said. "If she gets elected, her first 100 days, instead of setting an agenda, she might be going back and forth between the White House and the courthouse. We need to stop that." Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Rubio delivers an answer during the debate. He frequently attacked President Barack Obama. "When I become president of the United States, on my first day in office, we are going to repeal every single one of his unconstitutional executive orders," the senator from Florida said. "When I'm president of the United States, we are getting rid of Obamacare and we are rebuilding our military." Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Carson promised this week he would "insinuate" himself into the conversation when needed. After a discussion between Rubio and Christie during the debate, Carson told moderator Neil Cavuto, "Neil I was mentioned too." Cavuto asked, "You were?" Carson quipped, "Yeah, he said everybody." On a more serious note, Carson noted the "divisiveness and the hatred" in today's society. "We have a war on virtually everything -- race wars, gender wars, income wars, religious wars, age wars. Every war you can imagine, we have people at each other's throat," he said. "And our strength is actually in our unity." Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Kasich touted his economic record as governor of Ohio. "Our wages are growing faster than the national average," he said. "We're running surpluses. And we can take that message and that formula to Washington to lift every single American to a better life." Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Christie, like most of the candidates on stage, continued to be tough on the current administration. "Tuesday night, I watched story time with Barack Obama," he said of the recent State of the Union address. Christie also said "you cannot give Hillary Clinton a third term of Barack Obama's leadership. I will not do that. If I'm the nominee, she won't get within 10 miles of the White House." Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston From left, Republican presidential candidates Mike Huckabee, Carly Fiorina and Rick Santorum arrive for the "undercard" debate that took place a couple of hours before the main event. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Santorum, a former U.S. senator from Pennsylvania, delivers remarks during the debate. "The biggest reason that we're seeing the hollowing out of middle America is the breakdown of the American family," he said. "We have been too politically correct in this country because we don't want to offend anybody to fight for the lives of our children." Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Fiorina makes a point during the undercard debate. "The state of our economy is not strong," she said in her opening comments. "We have record numbers of men out of work. We have record numbers of women living in poverty. We have young people who no longer believe that the American dream applies to them. ... It's time to take our country back." Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Republicans debate in North Charleston Huckabee laughs during the debate, which was hosted by the Fox Business Network. His opening statement was much more serious. "There are a lot of people who are hurting today," said the former Arkansas governor. "I wish the President knew more of them. He might make a change in the economy and the way he's managing it." Hide Caption 12 of 12 Hey, I heard that you are a huge fan of "The Princess Bride." Me, too!! Did you know that they are talking about bringing it to Broadway? That would be so amazing, because William Goldman wrote the book right here in NYC! Have you seen any Broadway shows recently? I think you would just LOVE "Hamilton." Lin-Manuel Miranda wrote it and it's very historical. He's from Washington Heights and he's so talented. I'm warning you that it's hard to get tickets, but I'm sure you have some "in" somewhere. And check out "Kinky Boots" and "Fun Home" if you can. You won't be sorry! I wish I had more time to write, but I have so much to do. I'm going to probably take a Citi Bike (a great way to get around Manhattan, btw), over to the Museum Of Modern Art to get a ticket to the Picasso exhibit. Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, a Republican presidential candidate, speaks during a campaign rally at the Indiana State Fairgrounds on Monday, May 2. Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz holds up the hand of Carly Fiorina at a campaign rally in Indianapolis on Wednesday, April 27. Cruz named Fiorina, a former presidential candidate, as his running mate. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz celebrates his Wisconsin primary win with his wife, Heidi, and Gov. Scott Walker in Milwaukee on Tuesday, April 5. Walker endorsed Cruz for the presidency. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career With his wife by his side, Cruz tours the Dane Manufacturing facility before speaking to workers in Dane, Wisconsin, on Thursday, March 24. Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz speaks during the CNN Republican debate in Miami on Thursday, March 10. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz and his wife wave to the crowd at Liberty University after he announced his presidential candidacy in Lynchburg, Virginia, on March 23, 2015. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz speaks during the 2013 NRA Annual Meeting and Exhibits at the George R. Brown Convention Center on May 3, 2013, in Houston, Texas. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz poses with his wife, Heidi, and his daughters Caroline and Catherine. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz (left) fields questions from Bruce Rastetter at the Iowa Ag Summit on March 7, 2015, in Des Moines, Iowa. The event allows the invited speakers, many of whom are potential 2016 Republican presidential hopefuls, to outline their views on agricultural issue. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Nobel Peace Laureate Elie Wiesel (left) listens as Cruz (right) speaks during a roundtable discussion on Capitol Hill March 2, 2015 in Washington, D.C. Wiesel, Cruz and Rabbi Scmuley Boteach (center) participated in a discussion entitled 'The Meaning of Never Again: Guarding Against a Nuclear Iran.' Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Governor Greg Abbott (center) speaks alongside Cruz (left), Attorney General Ken Paxton (right) at a joint press conference February 18, 2015, in Austin, Texas. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Sen. Patrick Leahy (right) escorts Loretta Lynch back from a lunch break as Cruz (left) sits nearby during her confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee January 28, 2015, on Capitol Hill. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz greets supporters at the South Carolina Tea Party Coalition convention on January 18, 2015, in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. A variety of conservative presidential hopefuls spoke at the gathering on the second day of a three-day event. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz (left) and then-Texas Governor Rick Perry stand together during a press conference at the front gate of Fort Hood about Iraq war veteran, Ivan Lopez, who killed three and wounded 16 before taking his own life on April 4, 2014, in Fort Hood, Texas. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career (Left to right) Sen. Lindsey Graham, Sen. John McCain and Cruz listen as President Barack Obama delivers the State of the Union address on January 28, 2014, in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Then-Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (second right), poses with Republican senators-elect Jeff Flake (left), Deb Fischer (second left), and Cruz (right) at the U.S. Capitol on November 13, 2012, in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz speaks to reporters on September 25, 2013, after ending his talk-a-thon on the floor of the US Senate in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz speaks as then-Rep. Michele Bachmann (left), Sen. Mike Lee (second right) and Sen. Rand Paul (right) listen during a news conference May 16, 2013, on Capitol Hill. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz listens to testimony during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on April 22, 2013, in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz holds a news conference to announce the plan to defund Obamacare on March 13, 2013. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Cruz speaks at the CPAC on March 6, 2014, in National Harbor, Maryland. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Then-Senate Republican Candidate and Texas Solicitor General Cruz speaks at the 'Patriots for Romney-Ryan Reception' on August 29, 2012, in Tampa, Florida. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Then-Senate Republican Candidate and Texas Solicitor General Cruz speaks during the Republican National Convention at the Tampa Bay Times Forum on August 28, 2012. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: Moments from Ted Cruz's career Then-Senate Republican Candidate and Texas Solicitor General Cruz speaks during the Republican National Convention in 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 24 And then I'm going to take the subway to my son's basketball game over at his public high school near Times Square. Have you ever taken the subway? It's fast, convenient and safe ( as you know, New York is America's safest big city ), plus I get lots of reading done there. After the game we'll probably get something to eat since he's always so hungry. Sometimes we order in from our favorite neighborhood restaurants, but it's always a struggle which one to pick! Vietnamese, Korean, Peruvian, Greek, Japanese, Italian, Middle Eastern, Indian, deli, pizza -- so much to choose from! Thank goodness The New York Times has that wonderful food section every Wednesday; it gives us so many ideas. It's actually my favorite section after Tuesday's Science Times. Do you read the NYTimes? Anyway, thanks for taking the time to read this. Good luck getting your word out to the American people. Oh, and we actually have a word we use for you here in New York. Schmuck. You might hear it if you ever have the chutzpah to step foot in NYC again.
Stephen Ross was fired before he decided to start his own business. Ross's first job in New York was with Laird, a securities brokerage firm. It didn't last long. "They were having problems, and I was released, if you will," Ross said. He got a new job at Bear Stearns. That didn't work out either. At the investment bank, Ross clashed with a superior who didn't want Ross to take charge of a project Ross had been working on. Ross lost his temper. "Let's put it this way, I told him to f---himself," he recalled. "So I caused my own firing." The Detroit native was out of a job and desperate to stay in New York. "I had no money ... I didn't think anybody would be interested in hiring me, and I didn't want to go through that process again," Ross said. So he struck out on his own. "I went out and bootstrapped myself," Ross said. He borrowed $10,000 from his mother and started building his real estate firm, The Related Companies, in 1972. Though he had offers from investors, Ross wanted to keep control of the fledgling company. "I started working, and I really developed the passion for what I was doing," he said. "The more I did it, the more my passion grew." In retrospect, getting fired from Bear Stearns "was the best thing that happened to me," the Related chairman said. It wouldn't be his last roadblock to success. "Being successful, you don't go straight up," he added. "There's going to be obstacles along the way." Related: She was too short to play Goofy. Then she invented Spanx. Now she's a billionaire Building New York Related was a thriving company when the real estate market crashed in the early 1990s. To protect the business, Ross made a deal with his lenders. "I was very proactive," he said. "I went to the banks and told them, 'Hey look, we got a problem. I owe you a lot of money ... what I want to do is have all the time to pay it off, and I'll give you collateral for the debt that I owe you.'" The plan worked. "[The banks] believed in me," he said. "[They] gave me the opportunity." Through Related, Ross made a mark on the New York landscape. Related developed the Time Warner Center in Columbus Circle, a tourist hub located steps away from Central Park. The 2.8 million square foot property was completed in 2004, and is home to retail stores, restaurants, a hotel and several offices -- including CNN's. The success left Ross hungry for more. In 2007, just before the 2008 financial crisis, Related put in a bid to develop Hudson Yards, a property along the west side of Manhattan. Once again, things fell apart. "The day before the bid was due, the tenant called and said they didn't like the environment at the time," Ross said. But Related got another chance and now Hudson Yards — the largest-ever private real estate development in the United States — is back on track and scheduled to be completed by 2025. "We lost and then when it came back, I was as thirsty and hungry to do it as I ever was," Ross said. "Fortunately, it's worked out." Today, Related has more $50 billion in real estate assets. Related: When this billionaire entrepreneur started out, he was living in his car Always looking forward At 77, Ross has no plans to slow down. He wakes up at 6:15 each morning and exercises every day. "Two or three times a week I'll go to the bottom of Time Warner Center and walk up to the top, about 700 feet, two steps at a time." When he wants to relax, he plays golf, boats and works. "When you love what you doing, you're not working a day in your life. That's how I feel," he said. "I want to be the best in class, whatever I do," Ross said. "We're in so many different businesses now, but there's a common theme ... it's working with great people." In addition to serving as chair of Related, Ross owns the Miami Dolphins and is the chairman of the board at Equinox. "I never thought I'd be where I am today," Ross said. "I kind of pinch myself, but I don't sit back because I'm always looking forward."
As the results of Ireland's abortion referendum were announced to rapturous crowds of pro-choice campaigners at Dublin Castle on Saturday, it marked the start of a new era in the country's history. Almost 35 years after the Eighth Amendment was first introduced into Ireland's constitution, giving pregnant women and unborn foetuses the same right to life, 66.4% of voters cast their ballot in favour of legalising abortion. But despite the 'Repeal' campaign's landslide victory - with all but one constituency in Ireland voting 'Yes' - the day after the referendum result was revealed, Irish women are still unable to access terminations in their own country. So what happens next? The responsibility of carrying out the will of the Irish public now falls to the country's government, led by prime minister Leo Varadkar, an outspoken supporter of the 'Yes' campaign. Varadkar's health minister, Simon Harris, pledged on Saturday to push forward with new abortion laws following Ireland's decisive vote, leading chants at Dublin Castle of "Yes we did". On Tuesday, Harris will put draft legislation before the cabinet for backing, with the new legal framework expected to be tabled in the Dublin Parliament in the autumn. Under the prospective legislation, women will be able to access abortions within the first 12 weeks of pregnancy, subject to medical advice and a three-day cooling off period. In exceptional circumstances, terminations up to 24 weeks will also be permitted. The government hopes the new abortion regime will become law by the end of the year. Speaking on Saturday in the wake of the referendum result, Varadkar said the vote marked "the day Ireland stepped out from under the last of our shadows and into the light". "Today, we have a modern constitution for a modern people," he added. What does this mean for Northern Ireland? Following the result in Ireland, focus has now turned to north of the border. Despite being in the UK, abortion is effectively illegal in Northern Ireland, and is barred even in cases of incest and rape. The DUP has signalled its opposition to the relaxation of abortion laws, with the party's leader Arlene Foster saying Ireland's referendum has "no impact upon the law in Northern Ireland". "A referendum was held in the Republic of Ireland because of the constitutional prohibition on abortion that existed there. No such constitutional bar exists in Northern Ireland," Foster said. "The DUP is a pro-life party and we will continue to articulate our position. It is an extremely sensitive issue and not one that should have people taking to the streets in celebration. "I want to see the Northern Ireland Assembly restored and put no preconditions on the immediate establishment of an executive. "Some of those demanding change are the same people blocking devolution or demanding that Westminster change the law whilst simultaneously opposing direct rule." But other politicians and activists have voiced their support for relaxing the country's stance on abortion. At Dublin Castle, Sinn Fein president Mary Lou McDonald and deputy leader Michelle O'Neill held up a banner with the words: "The North is next." Meanwhile, Tory education minister Anne Milton told ITV's Peston On Sunday she will back liberalisation of Northern Ireland's abortion laws. "I understand there was a survey last year that showed a majority for a change in the law in Northern Ireland," she said. "It does feel anomalous and we are offering abortions for women from Northern Ireland (in England), that doesn't feel quite right. "It will be for the Northern Irish to reflect on." Given there was no assembly, she said if an amendment was put forward by an MP there should be a free vote and "personally, I believe in a woman's right to choose".
The odds of a messy trade war between the United States and China are rising again. The Trump administration shocked the world on Tuesday by tearing up a truce with Beijing and announcing it would impose tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods and restrict Chinese investment in the United States. China said Wednesday it was ready to retaliate. Here's a timeline that shows how trade tensions between the world's two biggest economies have grown for over a year. April 2017 — Trump launches investigation into steel imports President Donald Trump, who repeatedly vowed to bring manufacturing and jobs back to the United States, directs the Commerce Department to investigate whether imports of foreign steel and aluminum from China and other countries could be a threat to national security. August 2017 — Another investigation tightens the screws on China Trump launches a new investigation explicitly targeting China. He asks US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to look into unfair Chinese trade practices, with a particular focus on alleged theft of US intellectual property. China's state-run media says the probe will "poison" the relationship between the two countries, while the Chinese government later slams the Trump administration's "unilateralism and protectionism." A quiet few months The Trump administration's threats against China, including the investigations, don't result in tangible action over the rest of 2017 as Trump shows restraint amid a budding relationship with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping. However, experts warn that 2018 could be a different story. January 2018 — First, solar panels and washing machines The first major trade action against China comes at the beginning of the year, when the United States announces tariffs on imported solar panels, most of which come from China, and washing machines. China expresses "strong dissatisfaction" over the decision, adding that it "aggravates the global trade environment." March 9, 2018 -— Trump imposes tariffs on steel imports Trump follows through on tariff recommendations from his commerce department, announcing a global tax on steel imports at 25% and aluminum imports at 10%. China, the world's biggest steel exporter, calls the tariffs "a serious attack" on international trade and says it will take "firm action" if Chinese businesses suffer losses as a result. April 2, 2018 — China hits back Beijing imposes tariffs on about $3 billion worth of US imports, including a 15% duty on 120 American products such as fruits, nuts, wine and steel pipes. There's also a 25% tax on eight other US goods including recycled aluminum and pork. The Chinese government says its tariffs are specifically in response to the US trade measures against steel and aluminum. April 3-4, 2018 — US and China each threaten to target $50 billion in imports Trump's team responds barely 24 hours after China's first retaliation. The US Trade Representative proposes a 25% tax on close to 1,300 Chinese goods from the aerospace, machinery and medical industries. The goods account for about $50 billion worth of Chinese exports. The next day, the Chinese government announces plans for another set of retaliatory tariffs that nearly mirror the Trump administration's proposal -- 25% on a range of US products worth approximately $50 billion. The 106 products on China's list include aircraft and automobiles as well as soybeans and chemicals. April 5, 2018 — Trump calls for targeting another $100 billion in Chinese goods Trump threatens a wave of new tariffs worth $100 billion. He asks Lighthizer to look into which products his administration can target. China warns it has "already formulated very detailed countermeasures." April 16-17, 2018 — ZTE and Sorghum become targets The United States turns up the heat again, banning one of China's biggest tech companies -- ZTE (ZTCOF) -- from buying components from American firms for seven years because it allegedly failed to honor a deal under which it admitted to violating sanctions on Iran and North Korea. The next day, China's Commerce Ministry said it would start charging importers a fee of about 179% on US sorghum after an investigation found the shipments were unfairly subsidized and damaging Chinese producers. Sorghum is a grain that is used to feed livestock and make a popular Chinese liquor. American imports of sorghum to China were worth nearly $1 billion last year. April 22, 2018 — Offer to launch talks Officials from the United States and China say they would be interested in holding talks to discuss trade issues. Early May 2018 — Negotiations begin The White House describes the first round of talks in early May as "frank discussions." China says the two sides were far apart on some issues. As talks continue, Trump tweets that he is working to give ZTE "a way to get back into business, fast." President Xi of China, and I, are working together to give massive Chinese phone company, ZTE, a way to get back into business, fast. Too many jobs in China lost. Commerce Department has been instructed to get it done! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 13, 2018 Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says the administration is exploring "additional remedies" to its harsh punishment of the Chinese smartphone maker. Mid-May 2018 — A misunderstanding US officials tell CNN that Beijing has proposed boosting Chinese purchases of American goods by around $200 billion to reduce the massive trade imbalance between the two countries. But China's Foreign Ministry quickly denies the assertion, saying "these rumors are not true." However, China announces it will remove its huge import tax on US sorghum in a move to ease tensions. May 19, 2018 — Trade war put 'on hold' China and the United States announce they have reached a ceasefire, leading to a brief period of calm. In a joint statement, the countries say China will "significantly increase" purchases of US goods and services, but they do not put a dollar amount on China's commitment. Both sides agree to not impose new tariffs on one another while talks continue. "We're putting the trade war on hold," US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin tells Fox News. A few days later, China's Finance Ministry says it plans to cut import duties on passenger vehicles from 25% to 15%. Trump had previously criticized these duties, saying they were unfair and significantly higher than US duties. May 29, 2018 — US revives tariff threat on $50 billion from China In a surprise move, the White House says it will move ahead with its 25% tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods. It also announces new limits on Chinese investment in high-tech industries. China says it is ready to retaliate. "We want to reiterate that we don't want a trade war, but we aren't afraid of fighting one," says a spokesperson at China's foreign ministry. — Jackie Wattles contributed to this report.
Warning! Spoilers for “Black Panther,” “Infinity War” and whatever else below. Just a couple of months ago (yeah, it was that recently), “Black Panther” was obliterating the box office. News of a sequel hit the internet, to a chorus of “Wakanda Forever.” Then “Avengers: Infinity War” happened, and forever wasn’t what it used to be. In perhaps the most unexpected of many expectation-destroying moments in the new film, the king himself, T’Challa (Chadwick Boseman), crumbles to ashes as a result of Thanos (Josh Brolin) and his widely analyzed finger snap. We were all like, “Wakanda movie is this?” Nate Moore, a development and production executive at Marvel Studios, as well as a producer on “Black Panther,” recently told HuffPost that he learned a while ago that “Infinity War” directors Anthony and Joe Russo planned to kill off T’Challa. In fact, he knew T’Challa would turn to dust way back when “Black Panther” director Ryan Coogler was still working on his 2015 film “Creed.” Even then, the decision was perplexing. Moore said he initially asked the Russo brothers to hold off on murdering the Black Panther. “I knew pretty well what they were talking about and personally urged them to reconsider,” Moore said over the phone earlier this month. “But the storytelling made sense, so I love that we got to see a little bit more of Wakanda in that film, and I hope to see how they’re going to resolve that.” Marvel and Disney Chadwick Boseman as T'Challa and Letitia Wright as Shuri in "Black Panther." Moore added that it was difficult to argue with the Russos’ reasoning, though he didn’t elaborate on the specifics of their stance. “Touching on all the different ideas you can have, you talk about the pros and cons of each, and they had some really compelling arguments as to why what happened happened,” Moore said. “I think ultimately it made for a really interesting, almost more complicated ending to that film because of how well ‘Black Panther’ was embraced by audiences. Again, personally painful, but I understand the reasoning.” The Russo brothers have said the decision to kill ― or not kill ― particular “Infinity War” characters was story-driven, but that wasn’t enough of an explanation for me. I recently got the chance to ask them: Why T’Challa? Did they ever consider changing their position after seeing how successful “Black Panther” had become? Well, let’s just say they were resolute. “We were very cued into the storyline of Panther from his origins in ‘Captain America: Civil War,’” Anthony Russo said. “The role that Panther and Wakanda played in this movie was sort of a bedrock of the movie, a bedrock of the [Marvel cinematic universe]. I think ‘Black Panther’ could’ve done half the business that it did and it still would’ve been a valid creative choice.” One thing we talked a lot about was the notion of legacy and what it means to be African-American and be so disconnected to the place you are from. Nate Moore, development and production executive at Marvel Studios Of course, there’s a strong likelihood the superhero isn’t gone for good, given the “Black Panther” sequel that’s in the works. Will a Quantum Realm reality bring T’Challa back? Or will Shuri (Letitia Wright), T’Challa’s sister, become the next Black Panther, as some fans are already speculating? During the rest of our interview, Moore talked about the various possibilities ― and answered some of my most pressing questions: Was Beyoncé secretly on the “Black Panther” soundtrack? Could Kendrick Lamar be in the “Black Panther” sequel? What should we make of Chadwick Boseman’s supposed “Wakanda Forever” fatigue? Where did that “Wakanda Forever” sign come from? It was something that Chadwick and Ryan came up with in rehearsal, and there weren’t a ton of variations. It sort of just seems to make intuitive sense. I have to say, initially, I think the first time they did it was in tribal council, and part of me was like, “Is that going to look cool?” [Laughs] “Is that going to be cool or are people going to reject it?” But the more that it was used, the more it sort of almost felt like it had always been. It’s one of those decisions you always forget when it happened, and it just felt so natural and so a part of the fabric of the movie. Chadwick ― I think, because he developed it with Ryan ― owns it. Everything Chadwick does just feels real, so by the end of [the film shoot], extras were doing it, crew members were doing it to each other. Everyone was doing and that’s when you know, OK, this is something that’s going to resonate. The cast gets asked to do it a lot. Have you seen the memes of Chadwick doing Wakanda Forever and not looking as enthusiastic? Yeah, I’m not surprised, because you have to do it quite a bit. But also my friends will send me, like, soccer players doing it now. It’s made its way into pop culture, which I think is amazing. chadwick really went from “wakanda forever” to “wakanda sometimes” pic.twitter.com/laFcFumZKA — kay’s ashes (@spiderIy) May 14, 2018 What part of “Black Panther” changed the most from the script to what we saw? The adventure outside of Wakanda used to be much longer. After they went to Korea, they went a couple of other places. T’Challa, Nakia and Okoye [went] and sort of explored the theme of what it means to be African and African-American in the world a bit more. We just had to pare back honestly because of the amount of time we knew the film would take even with just what you saw on screen. There were definitely some great story ideas that we had to leave on the table and hopefully we get to revisit someday, just to keep the story as focused as possible on T’Challa and Killmonger. I think there are even sequences we boarded that were super cool that we didn’t have time for, and that’s a good sign on my end when you have too much story. Kendrick Lamar said he wanted to be a villain in the sequel. I mean, what do you think? [Laughs] That would be amazing. I love Kendrick Lamar, and his music is such a big part of the film. Yeah, I think if it’s right, it’s right. We can do a lot worse than Kendrick Lamar in one of our films. There was a rumor Beyoncé was secretly on one of Kendrick Lamar’s tracks. Can we finally put that to rest? You can finally put that to rest. That is not true. Why do you go to that wide shot at the end when Killmonger dies? One thing we talked a lot about was the notion of legacy and what it means to be African-American and be so disconnected to the place you are from. That wide shot and that scene with T’Challa and Killmonger at the end was really about Killmonger appreciating this place that he almost felt like he was never going to go to and seeing the sunset that his father promised him years before and passing on almost peacefully, as violent as that final act was. Sort of being reunited with his ancestry in that final moment and pulling back that wide to get the peace of that, the restfulness of that, even though it is him saying goodbye. We thought that was really interesting. Wakanda is a beautiful place and for him to be at rest there was sort of fitting, even though he is the villain. Even though his message was wrong, it is time for him to be at rest. I was kind of pulling for Killmonger to make it through. A lot of people were, which I think is the sign of a great villain ― someone you can identify with, who has a real point of view that is not “I want to take over the world” or “I want all the money in the world,” but is about something thematic. Again, that is something that Ryan Coogler pitched. That is something he should get full credit for, and I think is partially why the film resonates so much. You can see both sides. For the first time, what I thought was interesting is the notion that Killmonger actually changes T’Challa. The notion that the hero learns from the villain and changes because of the interaction with him is really powerful, and I don’t think something that we have done. With T’Challa gone, everyone’s already speculating about Shuri taking over as Black Panther. What do you think? That’s what I think is so great about comics and the Marvel cinematic universe. As you know, the notion of Black Panther is a mantle almost as much as the character, so there’s a lot of ways to explore great ideas for a “Panther” sequel that won’t invalidate what happened in “Infinity War,” and that gets us excited, just the breadth of stories you can tell, which is great. This interview was lightly edited for length and clarity. “Black Panther” is out now on DVD and digital.
Redefining failure When Sara Blakely sold fax machines door-to-door, she got used to hearing "no." "I knew that 'no' was just a part of the process," the Spanx founder told CNNMoney. "You have to hear 'no' so many times before you actually can get to a 'yes.'" Before Forbes named her the youngest self-made female billionaire in 2012, Blakely had plenty of failures. At first, Blakely wanted to be a lawyer — but that didn't work out. "I basically bombed the LSAT," Blakely said. Then, she tried out to be Goofy at Disney World. But she was too short. To Blakely, it felt like she'd hit "rock bottom." After her "no" from Disney, Blakely got the fax machine job, which she held for seven years. There, she faced a steady stream of rejections. "I was constantly being escorted out of buildings," Blakely recalled. "People would rip up my business card in my face, which was a typical occurrence." But Blakely was never deterred by failure. "Growing up, my dad used to encourage my brother and me to fail," she said. "I didn't realize it at the time, but he was just redefining failure for me. Failure became about not trying, not the outcome." That mindset, and her experiences, prepared her for the challenges of starting her own business. The Spanx story After years of selling fax machines, Blakely was ready for a change. "One day, I pulled off the side of the road, and I literally thought, 'I'm in the wrong movie.'" She took stock of her life. She evaluated her strengths — sales — and wrote what she wanted in a notebook. "I ended up writing, I want to invent a product that I can sell to millions of people that will make them feel better.'" A few years later, at 27, Blakely didn't know what to wear under a pair of white pants. "Everything showed," she recalled. "Everything was really uncomfortable, or binding, or left a line or bulge, or something I could see through my clothes." "So I decided to invent a better solution." Blakely chopped the feet off of a pair of control-top tights — an early version of the shapewear that would make her famous. Because she had set that goal years ago, Blakely said, she immediately recognized the action as an opportunity. Blakely started researching hosiery manufacturers and panty hose patents. She spent a week visiting factories in North Carolina, and finally found someone willing to make her product. Eventually, she landed her first big account: Neiman Marcus. Word of the new product spread. People started paying attention: Including Oprah Winfrey, who put Spanx on her "Favorite Things" list in 2000, just two years after Blakely cut her tights. That was a big moment for Blakely. "Getting chosen as Oprah's favorite thing was a really validating, awesome moment for me." An entrepreneurial life Blakely doesn't have any formal business training, but she lives what she calls an "entrepreneurial life." "With the right mindset, you can live a life much bigger and much greater than you ever imagined," she said. And despite her success, she still has moments of doubt. "It's a risk to invent something," she said. "You have to do something that didn't already exist, which is scary, because that's where self doubt is the most prominent." As a female entrepreneur, that feeling of doubt can be even more pronounced. "You just imagine everyone else so much smarter, and more qualified than you are. Then, one day you wake up and you go, 'What if it is me? Why not?'" Blakely wants more women to take those risks. "My dream is for there to be many more female inventors," she said. "We need the contribution of women."
(CNN) A rare espionage trial began Wednesday in Virginia as a jury heard testimony rife with references to covert communications devices and blocks of stashed cash payouts. In a shabby hotel room in Shanghai last year, three Chinese men, all surnamed Yang, had questioned Kevin Patrick Mallory, a former CIA covert officer, about the new Trump administration's foreign policy. What did he know about the THAAD missile system? The administration's stance on the South China Sea? "They were a little bit coy," Mallory later recalled. "I asked them point blank" if they worked for the government and "they didn't deny it." Mallory was sitting across from a CIA investigator in the spy agency's headquarters in May of 2017 as he recounted the episode and how a headhunter had approached him on LinkedIn for what he thought was an interview for a job consulting with a Chinese think tank. This week in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, Mallory sat next to defense attorneys as video from that CIA meeting played out -- a central piece of evidence in the case brought by the Justice Department accusing him of spying. As tension between the US and China climbs amid threats of a trade war, Mallory's case is emblematic of another challenge from the superpower: aggressive new efforts by Chinese intelligence to go after American state secrets, experts say. It could mean a life sentence for the 60-year-old Virginia man. Deciphering the case may be a challenge for the men and women of the jury, who heard two divergent motivations behind a fact that Mallory does admit: that he sent four pages of documents to the Chinese men and received from them thousands of dollars that he did not properly declare on customs intake paperwork. Mallory "betrayed his country" and sold classified information to the Chinese to stave off "mounting personal debt," prosecutor Jennifer K. Gellie said. He had "fallen on hard times," Mallory's defense attorneys conceded, but the former Army veteran is a "loyal and patriotic American who has served his country with distinction throughout his life." They said he had grown suspicious that his interviewers were in fact intelligence operatives and "tried to string the Chinese agents along" and warn the CIA so as not to let an opportunity to learn about an adversary's sources and methods "slip away." The trial in the Eastern District of Virginia is expected to last at least a week. The government says it will call witnesses from the CIA and Defense Intelligence Agency, where Mallory had also been employed. Jury members on Wednesday briefly saw the documents Mallory transmitted over a modified Samsung cellphone that Gellie said contained discussion of human source information. Mallory's attorney, Geremy C. Kamens, said one document was so "generic" that it had no use, and called two pages of handwritten notes that accompanied it "essentially gibberish." Two CIA employees testified Wednesday -- one under a pseudonym and behind a folding wall so as to remain anonymous -- about a series of phone calls and text messages they'd received from Mallory asking them to put him in contact with officials in the agency's East Asia division before and after his meetings in Shanghai. Mallory had stopped working as a CIA case officer in 1996 and left an intelligence position at the DIA in 2010, but had known one of the men through his church, and the other through consulting work Mallory had done at the CIA from 2010 to 2012, according to court documents and testimony. "He was practically begging to set up a meeting," Kamens said. Days after he finally landed the May 2017 sit-down at CIA headquarters, Mallory took the Samsung phone to a follow-up meeting with the CIA investigator at a Virginia hotel, officials testified Wednesday. Two FBI special agents were also there to interview Mallory and review the contents of the phone. On June 22, 2017, Mallory was charged with delivering defense information to aid a foreign government and making false statements, and has pleaded not guilty. His arrest is one in a string of high-profile Chinese espionage cases in the past two years that Peter Mattis, a former intelligence official and China expert, says is on trend with a recent generational shift in the Chinese intelligence apparatus. "In terms of coming after and trying to get sources in the US intelligence community, [the Chinese] have become more aggressive and they've got better tradecraft and they're putting more money into it," Mattis said. Former State Department employee Candace Marie Claiborne is fighting charges in the District of Columbia that she lied to the FBI about her failure to report thousands of dollars' worth of gifts she allegedly received from two Chinese intelligence agents. Claiborne has pleaded not guilty. Earlier this month, Jerry Lee, a former CIA case officer believed to have helped China identify and kill members of the US spy network in the country, pleaded not guilty to conspiracy to commit espionage. "As far as we can tell from public reporting Kevin Mallory [was paid] $25,000 for a handful of documents," Mattis said. "That's a fairly hefty chunk of money for a relatively small amount of information."
As a dad, I take Father’s Day seriously ― but not the gifts. My kids know that I don’t wear ties, don’t need cufflinks and have no interest in shirts that make fun of my grumpiness. Dads spend all year providing for their kids, so usually all they want on Father’s Day is something that will make them laugh and let them know that their kids understand them as people, not just parents. As a public service, HuffPost Weird News is offering our annual Weird Father’s Day Gift Guide to help kids find a gift that only their dad will appreciate. Whether that means a shark hat or an app that lets Dad stare at his sperm is up to you.
(CNN) The cancellation of "Roseanne" by ABC birthed the backlash one might expect, but those arguing that television has lost its only working-class family should to start channel surfing a little bit more. The case that Roseanne Conner was one of TV's few conservative characters? True. Very true. In fact, you could probably count the number of openly conservative characters on scripted television on two hands. (Another, Tim Allen's Mike Baxter on "Last Man Standing," will return in fall to Fox, more than a year after the show's cancellation at ABC.) It's also true that the Conner family brought a fresh voice to the plight of blue collar families, with references to how they nearly lost their home due to economic strain and their lack of health care coverage. But the series was not the only scripted comedy delving into American's socio-economic experiences. Here are some of the others: Comedies "Speechless" (ABC, recently renewed for Season 3) What it's about: A warm-hearted comedy about a teenager named JJ, who has cerebral palsy, and his family. Storyline example: JJ's parents try to get on the good side of their insurance agent in order to get coverage for all the equipment and medication JJ needs. "Yeah, having a disability is really expensive. It's almost not even worth it," dad Jimmy (John Ross Bowie) cracks at one point. JJ laughs. So proud of @ABCNetwork for having the ethical compunction to cancel #Rosanne despite the show's huge numbers. We too make a show about a middle class family , come and watch us instead #speechless @Speechless_ABC ✨ — Minnie Driver (@driverminnie) May 29, 2018 "Bob's Burgers" (Fox, recently renewed for Season 9) What it's about: A quirky family who owns a local burger joint Storyline example: Parents Linda and Bob has made several references to the fact that they live paycheck-to-paycheck. In one scene, Linda is seen on the phone with the bank, instructing them on which checks to let bounce. "Okay, so bounce the check to the power company, bounce the check to the relish guy, but make sure the beef supplier goes through. Without beef, the whole system falls apart." "One Day at a Time" (Netflix, recently renewed for Season 3) What it's about: An Army veteran and nurse named Penelope (Justina Machado) raises her family with help from her larger-than-life Cuban-born mother. Storyline example: Penelope's youngest son wants five new pairs of sneakers (one for every day of the school week), and is quickly shot down. When the boy asks if they're poor, she says no and points out their various luxuries -- a laptop, a TV, an air conditioner. "But you never let us turn it on," he says of the latter. "The point is, you could," she retorts before adding, "but don't." Though this moment is not a significant part of the episode, it does paint a picture of the family's economic situation. "Superstore" (NBC, recently renewed for Season 4) What it's about: A group of employees who work at "Cloud 9," a fictional big-box store in St. Louis, Missouri. Storyline example: This series is filled with references to the employee's hardships. For instance, one character, Cheyenne, a young mom, makes note of the fact that she works two jobs to get by -- the second particularly because she it allows her daughter to go to a good day care. In another episode, employees set out to find a better alternative to their terrible health plan. "Mom" (CBS, recently renewed for Season 6) What it's about: A newly sober mother (Anna Faris) navigates life with her two kids and her mother, a fellow recovering addict. Storyline example: In one episode, Chrissy (Faris) considers quitting school to work in real estate after the stress of juggling two jobs, four college classes and kids, becomes overwhelming. Possibly coming soon "The Middle" spin-off (ABC)
Spencer Platt via Getty Images Harvey Weinstein arrives at the New York Police Department's 1st Precinct to turn himself in on May 25, 2018. The best way to watch Harvey Weinstein walk himself into a Manhattan police precinct on Friday morning was via NBC News’ Periscope. As the former Oscar-winning Hollywood producer and “king of indie film” marched from his black car into the police station, NBC correspondent Craig Melvin began naming some of the 95 women who have come forward with allegations against Weinstein ― Lucia Evans, Gwyneth Paltrow, Angelina Jolie, Lupita Nyong’o, Uma Thurman, Salma Hayek. Reaction icons started floating up the right side of the screen, little hearts of different colors, one after another after another, until they formed a cloud of “likes.” We, the people of the internet, were engaging in a collective act of schadenfreude, and it was delicious. Women are so often told to contain our anger, to make it more palatable, less “aggressive,” small enough to contain within the male prerogative. But I’m angry at men like Harvey Weinstein, and there’s nothing palatable about it. The man who beckoned young women to his hotel rooms for the sole purpose of using them, who hired ex-Mossad agents to track anyone liable to expose him, who had vast resources at his fingertips and used them liberally to try to silence the dozens of women he (allegedly) victimized ― even that man is no longer untouchable. “One phone call and you’re done.” “I have eyes and ears everywhere.” “I’m Harvey Weinstein, you know what I can do.” Not anymore. https://t.co/j3x8njJZWJ — jodikantor (@jodikantor) May 24, 2018
WASHINGTON ― A mostly non-Christian militia linked to a brutal Iranian-backed paramilitary group secured two of the five seats in Iraq’s parliament reserved for Christians, according to official election results announced Saturday. The militia, known as the Babylon Brigade, doesn’t represent Christians at all, local leaders and international advocates for Iraqi Christians warn. They say the militia’s candidates, though Christian, won only because of help from Shiite Muslims. And Iraqi Christians are calling on President Donald Trump to live up to his statements of concern for Middle East Christians by pressuring Iraqi authorities to invalidate the results. But so far, the Trump administration has said nothing on the issue. Rayan al-Kildani, a Christian associated with various militias, founded the Babylon Brigade in 2014 when ISIS swept through Iraq and began hunting down religious minorities. Al-Kildani brought together 1,000 fighters and soon became the most prominent Christian in the popular mobilization, an umbrella group of Iraqi militias that fought ISIS with U.S. help. Along the way, he forged close ties with the Badr Organization, a historically brutal armed group that receives support from the Shiite leadership of Iran. Most of Al-Kildani’s fighters aren’t Christians, national security experts say, but members of the non-Christian Shabak ethnic minority or Iraq’s Shiite Muslim majority. Al-Kildani’s chief value to the mostly Shiite leaders of the popular mobilization forces was in propaganda. “He’s used like a quisling character to put a Christian face onto these militias,” said Michael Knights, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute, a think tank focused on Middle East policy. Al-Kildani has “nothing to do with the morality of Christ ... [and] does not represent Christians in any way,” the church of Louis Sako, a top Iraqi priest who’s now a cardinal-designate, said in a statement last year. Al-Kildani didn’t win the parliamentary seats because of support from the Christian community but because of his ties to groups like Badr, his opponents fear. His candidates received thousands of votes from heavily Shiite cities that have no known Christian communities, said Asaad Kalasho, the U.S. representative for the Christian town of Tel Keppe. “He did get votes from Christians … [but] there’s no way that he won based solely on those Christian votes,” said Yousif Kalian, a program assistant at the United States Institute for Peace who has written on Al-Kildani’s militia. “Many [Christians] feel he doesn’t represent their interests largely because of connections to Badr and to Iran.” One Christian party whose representatives had a post-election meeting at the State Department is formally challenging the seat allocation. And Sako said the results show Christians need to “learn a lesson” about securing political power. Activists believe that rather than advocate for the Christian minority, the Babylon Brigade’s representatives in parliament will be most concerned with tipping the scales in favor of the Badr Organization, which secured the second-largest seat total in parliament. Kalasho said he sees the situation as evidence that the entire election was flawed — echoing complaints of irregularities elsewhere that the U.S. has said should be investigated. Strong representation, the advocates argue, is crucial to help Iraq’s already struggling Christian community survive. Before the U.S. invasion unleashed waves of violence, Iraq had nearly 1.5 million Christians among its population of 38 million. Now only about 200,000 are left in the country, most of them in northern villages, the Kurdish region in the northeast and the capital, Baghdad. “We’ve been marginalized by both Kurds and the central Iraqi government over the years. Now it’s Iran,” said Steve Oshana, the executive director of the nonprofit group A Demand for Action, throwing in a reference to Trump’s favorite geopolitical bogeyman. “Our land has been stolen, our rights diminished, and if we lose legitimate representation in parliament, there’s no coming back for us ... We’ve been bamboozled, and it will take leadership from the administration to make sure it doesn’t lead to our complete marginalization in our ancestral homeland.” Activists said a strong response by the U.S. government is the only way to ensure that Christians still have their interests represented and prove that Washington will not tolerate attempts to suppress them. The White House and State Department met with Iraqi Christians worried about al-Kildani at least twice last year, Oshana said. Many in the Trump administration, particularly evangelical Christian darling Vice President Mike Pence, have said they want to help Iraq’s Christians. “Across the wider Middle East, we can now see a future in many areas without a Christian faith. But tonight, I came to tell you, help is on the way,” Pence proclaimed in October. But the president has repeatedly told aides he wants to wash his hands of the Middle East and avoid pulling the U.S. into its communities’ disputes. Asked to comment for this story, the White House, Pence and the State Department’s office for international religious freedom were all silent.
(CNN) Germ-free childhoods followed by infections later in life can trigger the onset of childhood leukemia, a new study suggests. The first step is a genetic mutation before birth that predisposes a child to the risk of developing this form of leukemia. The second step is exposure to certain infections later in childhood, after clean early childhoods that limited exposure to infections. More specifically, children who grew up in cleaner households during their first year and interacted less with other children are more likely to develop acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the paper says. The author, Institute of Cancer Research Professor Mel Greaves, suggests the cancer could be preventable. Greaves reviewed more than 30 years of research, including his own, on the genetics, cell biology, immunology, epidemiology and animal modeling of childhood leukemia and reached this conclusion. Greaves said he had long wondered "why or how otherwise healthy children develop leukaemia and whether this cancer is preventable." "This body of research is a culmination of decades of work, and at last provides a credible explanation for how the major type of childhood leukaemia develops," he said in a statement. "The research strongly suggests that (this cancer) has a clear biological cause, and is triggered by a variety of infections in predisposed children whose immune systems have not been properly primed." However, other experts warn that more specifics needs to be confirmed and emphasize that hygiene and safety are still crucial. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia , known as ALL, is a form of blood cancer that is most often diagnosed in children ages zero to 4 years old, though older children and adults can also be diagnosed. It develops quickly, over days or weeks, building up in the blood and spreads to other parts of the body, including the lymph nodes, liver and nervous system. The main form of treatment is chemotherapy. Rates of the disease are increasing globally. One study estimated there were 53,000 cases worldwide in 2016. Around 5,960 new cases of ALL are estimated to occur in the United States in 2018, with 1,470 deaths according to the American Cancer Society. Each year, around 810 people are diagnosed in the UK , according to Cancer Research UK. While a genetic mutation plays a role in predisposing someone to the disease, just 1% of children born with this mutation go on to develop the disease, according to the paper. Rates are more common in advanced, affluent societies, which suggests the second step could be caused by factors relating to modern life. Previous claims have linked electromagnetic waves and other environmental factors to the disease, but Greaves dismissed this link in his paper. The body of research "busts some persistent myths about the causes of leukaemia, such as the damaging but unsubstantiated claims that the disease is commonly caused by exposure to electro-magnetic waves or pollution," said Greaves. Greaves instead believes that when a baby is exposed to infections during its first year, its immune system is strengthened. But later infections, without the initial priming, can trigger leukemia in those with the genetic mutation. Population studies have found that early exposure to infection in infancy such as day care attendance and breastfeeding can protect against ALL, probably by priming the immune system, according to the study. Greaves emphasized that infection as a cause applies only to ALL. Other types of leukemia, including infant leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia, probably have different causal mechanisms. "Preventing childhood leukaemia would have a huge impact on the lives of children and their families in the UK and across the globe," said Paul Workman, chief executive of the Institute of Cancer Research, London. However, other experts are more cautiously hopeful, emphasizing that genetics and pure chance are still significant factors for developing ALL. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "If we could stop this type of leukaemia from happening in the first place it would be enormously exciting, but many more questions still need to be answered in the research lab before we will know for sure whether that could become a reality," said Alasdair Rankin, director of research at blood cancer charity Bloodwise. "There is no proven link yet with a specific infection," said Dr. Donna Lancaster, consultant pediatric oncologist at the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust. "This [new study] still needs further investigation and any exposure of young children to infection has to be balanced with the risk of the infection. Sheena Cruickshank of the British Society for Immunology also pointed to the potential risk of exposing children to infections, emphasizing that hygiene and safety are still crucial to maintain. "It's also important to remember that infections themselves can pose a significant risk for young babies with a developing immune system," said Cruickshank in a statement. "Parents should not be unduly alarmed by this review." The research may be a step toward developing preventative measures. However, Charles Swanton, chief clinician of Cancer Research UK, stressed that the causes and prevention methods are still unconfirmed. "This research sheds light on how a form of childhood blood cancer might develop, implicating a complex combination of genetics and early exposure to germs, dirt, and illness," Swanton said. "We want to assure any parents of a child who has or has had leukaemia, that there's nothing that we know of that could have been done to prevent their illness."
New Delhi — "Aaaaaaaah ..... Aaaaaaaah ..... Aaaaah..... Aaaaaaah." December 31 2016 found Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma barely coherent in square-rimmed spectacles, jeans, and a Zuckerberg-style blue hoodie, on stage at Paytm's Revolution 2017 New Year party screaming: "Aaaaaah.... Aaaaaah.... Aaaaah.... Aaaaah." A month and a half earlier, on 8 November, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had demonetised all five hundred and one thousand rupee notes in an unscheduled televised address. That night, 85% of India's cash in circulation ceased to be legal tender. The next morning, Paytm took out front page newspaper advertisements congratulating the prime minister on the "boldest decision in the financial history of Independent India!" SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube The cashless future Sharma had staked his company on was here, Paytm was best placed to capitalise on demonetisation. The money deposited in Paytm mobile wallets had increased a 1000% in a month and it felt like: "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaah! "Those who aren't with us are going to cry," Sharma shouted into the microphone that heady night in 2017, a video of which soon went viral, before dissolving into a stream of obscenities. Eighteen months later, on May 25 this year, Sharma's younger brother and senior vice president at Paytm, Ajay, would get his own viral video. In the grainy footage shot on a hidden camera, Ajay appears to tell an undercover CobraPost journalist that Paytm had very close relations with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the parent organisation of the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party. "In J&K, there was a strike – stone pelting," Ajay appears to say. "We got personally got a phone call from the PMO, saying give the data – maybe they are Paytm users." Ajay also appears to say that the "RSS is in our blood", and that Paytm bought advertisements in the Organiser, the RSS's mouthpiece, as a way to fund the parent organisation. For Sharma's detractors, these two viral videos point to Paytm's cosy relationship with the ruling party, and cement his reputation as the most recent corporate honcho — in an economy ruled by politically-connected oligarchs – to have the good fortunate of getting crucial policy decisions to swing his way. Paytm's rise and explosive growth epitomises India's rapidly evolving data eco-system where scores of tech startups, with varying degrees of funding from global funds, are offering heavily subsidised services in exchange for gathering deep tranches of personal data of citizens, with no legal oversight, and few constraints on how this data is shared. The two viral videos also reveal how Indian tech companies are following the lead of their Chinese collaborators (Paytm's largest shareholder is ANT Financial, the Chinese powerhouse behind Alibaba) in pleasing the Indian state, and ruling party, rather than safeguarding their consumers. In a statement on their website, Paytm steered clear of directly addressing Ajay's alleged statements, and did not clarify if it had shared data of Paytm users with law enforcement agencies: Our policy allows ONLY legally compliant data requests from the law of the land to get access to data for necessary investigations. To further clarify, in the past, we have neither received requests nor shared any data without a legally compliant request from a bonafide agency and through proper process and channels. You can be sure that no data is shared with anyone whom you would not have given us permission to share it with. Vijay Shekhar Sharma did not respond to a set of questions from HuffPost India. Nerds Making Money In the early 1990s Vijay Shekhar Sharma - the son of a government school biology teacher in a village outside Aligarh – found himself at the Delhi College of Engineering. He was 15, having jumped two grades in school, and didn't speak very good English. He withdrew to the college computer lab, taught himself code, and on Sundays went to the book bazaar in Dariyaganj where he bought back issues of Forbes and Fortune to teach himself English. These were the first heady days of internet culture. In December 1994, Marc Andreesen released Netscape Navigator, the first commercial web-browser that hid the early web's messy protocols like FTP, gopher and telnet behind a clean point-and-click interface. When Netscape went public in 1995, the company was valued at $3 billion dollars without making a cent in profit. In February 1996, the Time magazine cover story, titled "Golden Geeks', featured a snarling Marc Andreesen seated on a gilded throne. The dotcom bubble had begun. Today, information still wants to be free, but data – of the sort that Paytm is well positioned to harvest - is the new oil. "For me, in 1994-95, internet meant 'Nerds Making Money'," said Sharma, in an interview in Paytm's Noida office in late October 2017, well before the CobraPost allegations came to light. Sharma remembers a photograph of Andreesen standing beside wires sprouting from an outsized pipe. "He was pointing at it and saying, 'This is how money flows in'." But how to wring money out of a medium whose early evangelists had proclaimed that "Information wants to be free"? Sharma would spend the next two decades wrestling with this question. His quest would coincide with seismic shifts in the global tech landscape that would place Paytm and digital payments in India in the midst of the first major battle featuring four of the world's biggest companies: Amazon, Facebook, Google, and China's Alibaba group. Today, information still wants to be free, but data – of the sort that Paytm is well positioned to harvest - is the new oil. Missed Call Wallet At One97, the holding company that owns Paytm, its first product was premised on the early dilemma of India's telecom revolution: It was 2000, everyone wanted to own a cell-phone but few could afford to make calls on one. "People would give each other missed calls, but nobody would know who called," Sharma recalled, so he set up what was effectively Truecaller for the SMS age. "You could text the number of the person who called you and we would tell you whose number was it." The service was called One97 after BSNL's popular telephone inquiry service. Over the next decade, the company branched out into mobile services like caller tunes, astrology advice, cricket scores. "There was a clear gap that we saw in 2011, that our country will need a payment system made for the mobile age" "The inherent core tool toy that we had in our hands was we could charge the customer through the telecom company's wallet," Sharma explained, "So if you wanted ringtone – money taken – if you wanted content – money taken. We had a ubiquitous and instant payment system existent in prepaid system of the operator." But it was clear to him that his business model was on borrowed time. The first iPhone was launched in 2007 followed by the App Store a year later. Customers weren't going to buy services from their cellular providers anymore, they were going to download apps like Truecaller from online stores. Yet, customers would need to figure out a way to pay for these apps and services. Even today, less than 3% of Indians have a credit card – the default mode of online payment elsewhere in the world. "There was a clear gap that we saw in 2011, that our country will need a payment system made for the mobile age," Sharma said. "We came with the name – pay through mobile – and that's called Paytm." From China with Love On October 8 2015, a year and a month before demonetisation, Sharma had a meeting with the Paytm board. He had just returned from China where he had witnessed the digital payments revolution up close. This transformation had occurred over a relatively short time, but had grown into a multi-billion-dollar business carved out between two services – Alipay, run by Paytm's majority investor the Alibaba Group, and their competitor Tencent Holding's WeChat service. Last year, China's mobile payments crossed $5.5 trillion according to consulting firm iResearch. In India, by contrast, all digital payments are expected to hit half a trillion, or less than 10% of that number by 2020, according to a report by Google and Boston Consulting Group. While Alipay was conceptualised as an easy way for China's online shoppers to pay for things on Alibaba's ecommerce sites; Tencent took a different route by letting WeChat's 890 million users send money to each other through the same messaging service that users sent each other messages, photos and videos. The WeChat service soon caught on, largely because the service assigned each user a unique QR code that could be quickly scanned to process payments. The decision, which would trigger years of litigation, effectively killed Netscape Navigator – the trailblazing browser built by Sharma's hero Marc Andreesen. (Andreesen did ok, and he now runs Andreessen Horowitz, a VC fund that — as a 2015 New Yorker profile put it — is "afire to reorder life as we know it." In February 2018, Paytm had a glimpse of its potential Netscape moment when Whatsapp started rolling out a version of its popular messaging service that integrated a money-transfer system. Could Whatsapp, with its 200 million active users in India, ambush Paytm in the way that WeChat had undermined Alibaba in China? "With Whatsapp's committed user base, it doesn't need to spend dollars on customer acquisition or even merchant acquisition – as merchants use the service as well," said Shiv Putcha, an analyst at IDC, "This could potentially be a problem for Paytm." Paytm responded with the pre-emptive launch of a rival service called Paytm Inbox, that allows users to send and receive money through a simple chat based interface. "I logically should be paranoid about it," said Sharma of the possible launch of Whatsapp's payment service, "We've been paranoid much before and we'll be paranoid." That was back in November last year. Since then, Sharma has appeared increasingly paranoid, to the point of describing Facebook as "the most evil firm in the world." His Twitter account is teeming with links to stories about Cambridge Analytica and the privacy and security issues plaguing Facebook, Whatsapp, and Google (another payments competitor with its Tez App). Sharma has continued to tweet in the days after the CobraPost story broke; mostly the sort of decontextualized, inspirational guff that the internet is awash in: an article on Maya Angelou on Courage and Facing Evil, and some doggerel by life coach Cara Alwill Leyba. But on the allegations that his company is sharing granular user data with the Indian government, the normally voluble CeO has said nothing. Editor's note: This article has been amended to reflect the following change: the quotation marks around the phrase life coach have been removed. We regret our error.
It’s the moment royal wedding fans have been waiting for: Meghan Markle just revealed her wedding dress to the world. The former actress arrived at Windsor Castle in a vintage Rolls-Royce Phantom IV on Saturday. As soon as she stepped out of the car, Markle gave fans a glimpse of her gorgeous wedding gown, designed by Clare Waight Keller of Givenchy. Waight Keller, who is British, became the first female artistic director at Givenchy last year. The stunning, modern silk dress has three-quarter-length sleeves, an open bateau neckline and a train cushioned by triple silk organza, according to Kensington Palace. Markle also wore white gold and diamond Galanterie de Cartier earrings and a Reflection de Cartier bracelet, both from Cartier. Press Association Markle wore her hair up with a veil and Queen Mary’s diamond bandeau tiara, according to Kensington Palace. “The diamond bandeau is English and was made in 1932, with the entre brooch dating from 1893,” the palace said. PA Wire/PA Images OLI SCARFF via Getty Images OWEN HUMPHREYS via Getty Images BEN STANSALL via Getty Images Kensington Palace released details about the dress on Saturday, shortly after Markle’s arrival. “After meeting Ms. Waight Keller in early 2018, Ms. Markle chose to work with her for her timeless and elegant aesthetic, impeccable tailoring, and relaxed demeanour,” the statement said. “Ms. Markle and Ms. Waight Keller worked closely together on the design. The dress epitomises a timeless minimal elegance referencing the codes of the iconic House of Givenchy and showcasing the expert craftsmanship of its world-renowned Parisian couture atelier founded in 1952.” The gorgeous veil includes a nod to all 53 countries of the Commonwealth, as Waight Keler added in the “distinctive flora” of each country, according to Kensington Palace. PA Wire/PA Images PA Wire/PA Images Mike Egerton - PA Images via Getty Images Prince Harry and his brother, Prince William, wore military dress for the occasion. ODD ANDERSEN via Getty Images Prior to the big day, fans couldn’t stop speculating about which designer Markle would choose for her wedding dress. For her official engagement photos with Prince Harry, the former actress wore a sheer gown from the British design house Ralph & Russo that reportedly cost a whopping $75,000. A post shared by Kensington Palace (@kensingtonroyal) on Dec 21, 2017 at 3:59am PST Many thought she would choose Ralph & Russo again, or go with designers Erdem, Jenny Packham, Christopher Bailey, Stella McCartney or Sarah Burton for Alexander McQueen, like the Duchess of Cambridge did for her 2011 nuptials. Markle’s mom sparked speculation that her daughter might go with Burberry, as Ragland was spotted heading to LAX with a garment bag from the designer in hand on Tuesday. The bride chose Stella McCartney for her second, more relaxed dress. She changed just before the couple took off in a Jaguar E-Type for their private reception with 200 friends and family members. The high-necked gown in lily white silk crepe showed off Markle’s shoulders. Her shoes cleverly served as “something blue” ― their soles were painted in baby blue, according to Kensington Palace. Prince Harry also changed out of his military attire into a more evening-appropriate tuxedo. PA Wire/PA Images PA Wire/PA Images Markle wasn’t the only one in Stella ― Oprah ran to the designer after a last-minute outfit crisis left her in need of a new dress. McCartney issued a statement on Monday about designing the dress for Markle and included a clip of the gown’s sketch. “I am so proud and honoured to have been chosen by the Duchess of Sussex to make her evening gown and represent British design,” she wrote. “It has truly been one of the most humbling moments of my career. Congratulations Harry and Meghan! I am so proud and honoured to have been chosen by the Duchess of Sussex to make her evening gown and represent British design. It has truly been one of the most humbling moments of my career. Congratulations Harry and Meghan! x Stella pic.twitter.com/BsHuK2Xg4l — Stella McCartney (@StellaMcCartney) May 21, 2018 This article has been updated with comment from McCartney.
Harare, Zimbabwe (CNN) Zimbabwe will hold its national elections on July 30, President Emmerson Mnangagwa announced on Wednesday. It will be the first election since the military forced Robert Mugabe out of office in an apparent coup in November last year. "I am delighted to proclaim July 30 as the date for the 2018 harmonized elections. These elections will be free, fair and transparent, and the voice of the people will be heard. I call on all candidates to campaign peacefully and focus on the issues that really matter," Mnangagwa said on his official Twitter handle. I am delighted to proclaim July 30 as the date for the 2018 harmonised elections. These elections will be free, fair and transparent, and the voice of the people will be heard. I call on all candidates to campaign peacefully and focus on the issues that really matter. — President of Zimbabwe (@edmnangagwa) May 30, 2018 Mnangagwa, who became the country's interim leader in November, said he looked forward to engaging with the people of Zimbabwe as campaigns begin. There had been concerns that Mnangagwa -- a septuagenarian known as the "Crocodile" for his political survival skills -- could delay the vote to extend his stay in power. Read More
(CNN) Kim Kardashian West is defending her husband after drama unfolded this weekend over a charity he founded. It all began with a rap feud. Rappers Drake and Pusha-T each released diss tracks targeting the other on Friday. In " "Duppy Freestyle," Drake responds to Pusha-T's single "Infared" with a line that references West. "Tell 'Ye we got an invoice comin' to you/," Drake raps. "Considering we just sold another 20 for you." West produced Pusha-T's album, "Daytona," on which "Infared" is included. Drake followed the line with an invoice he shared on social media. You're welcome. 🦉 A post shared by champagnepapi (@champagnepapi) on May 25, 2018 at 6:08pm PDT Chicago rapper Rhymefest entered into the fray, too. He tweeted to Drake that once he received said money from the label West founded in 2004, he should donate some of it to help the charity West founded. "@Drake when G.O.O.D. Music sends the money they owe you, will you please help us rebuild Kanye's mothers house for the youth of Chicago. I spoke to Kanye about it," Rhymefest tweeted Friday. "His response was "f**k the youth of Chicago." Rhymefest is a longtime friend and collaborator of West, who help start Donda's House in 2011 in honor of West's mother, Donda West, an educator who died in 2007 of complications following cosmetic surgery. Rhymefest calling West out did not sit well with West's wife. Kim Kardashian West took to Twitter to defend her husband in a series of tweets on Saturday. U haven't been right since u got kicked out of the studio in Hawaii wearing fake Yeezy's @RHYMEFEST 😂 You're over levergenging Kanye's name & asked Kanye to donate money to u so stop w your fake community politics & lies. Truth is you haven't been able to sustain the foundation — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 26, 2018 I saw you at our studio a few weeks ago so why didn't you bring this up then @RHYMEFEST ? You were trying to get Kanye to listen to your sub par beats. You have the audacity to use Kanye's mom name to try to shead a negative light on Kanye. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 26, 2018 You didn't say this when Kanye paid you up front then you disappeared during Pablo #RealFriends @RHYMEFEST — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 26, 2018 You better believe I will make it my mission to take Donda's House from you and let my children run it the way it should be run! @RHYMEFEST — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 26, 2018 "U haven't been right since u got kicked out of the studio in Hawaii wearing fake Yeezy's @RHYMEFEST," Kardashian West tweeted. "You're over levergenging Kanye's name & asked Kanye to donate money to u so stop w your fake community politics & lies. Truth is you haven't been able to sustain the foundation." She also berated Rhymefest for not bringing up the issue privately and threatened to make it her "mission to take Donda's House from you and let my children run it the way it should be run!" Rhymefest responded with a lengthy statement posted on Twitter. Hey @KimKardashian good to hear from you. Here's my response pic.twitter.com/dWvwZfr1b5 — Rhymefest (@RHYMEFEST) May 27, 2018 "I spoke to your husband about peace, and balance, as well as about the work that we have been doing in Chicago regarding Donda's House," the statement read in part. "He was more interested in his record." Hours later, Donda's House released a statement that -- because of the feud -- the organization would no longer be using that name. On Sunday, Kardashian West sent another series of tweets in which she attempted to explain why her husband was no longer involved with the charity. According to her, "After several years of lack of performance from the organization and Kanye going through personal financial issues, he could no longer fund salaries. Rhymefest asked to take it over and Kanye agreed with no financial strings attached." Let me break this all the way down ... — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 27, 2018 Kanye and Donda started a charity called Loop Dreams. When Donda passed, they changed the name to Donda's House. Kanye paid Rhymefest a salary to run it. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 27, 2018 After several years of lack of performance from the organization and Kanye going through personal financial issues, he could no longer fund salaries. Rhymefest asked to take it over and Kanye agreed with no financial strings attached. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 27, 2018 Kanye gave his "friend" an opportunity to run an organization on his own. So now that Kanye is being publicly shamed for not being involved makes no sense and, at this exact time, just seems very calculated. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 27, 2018 I have and will always applaud any efforts to give back to the community. To fight for justice and to help uplift the youth. But I will never tolerate someone who was close to Kanye who attempts to use his late mother's name to publicly shame him while pretending to do good. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 27, 2018 I will always ride for my man! — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 27, 2018 "I have and will always applaud any efforts to give back to the community," she wrote. "To fight for justice and to help uplift the youth. But I will never tolerate someone who was close to Kanye who attempts to use his late mother's name to publicly shame him while pretending to do good." The reality star added, "I will always ride for my man!" In that same statement, the organization sought to distance itself from West's recent controversial tweets and actions that had led some to call for a boycott of the rapper. "While we cannot and do not speak for Kanye West and his views, we can and will speak up for the youth that we serve," the statement read. "We ask that those who feel hurt, angered by or frustrated with Kanye West not penalize or throw away their support, respect and advocacy for us."
All his life, Chris Olah was told you can't trust the government. His grandfather and his father drilled it into his head that you have to rely on yourself and can't expect the government to bail you out. Olah, 43, still believes the federal government is to blame for many of the problems affecting working class Americans like himself. Yet, the Frenchville, Pennsylvania, resident would like Washington D.C. to do more to help people like him who have fallen on hard times. He's struggling to find work despite having just earned an associate's degree in criminal justice. "The government is not putting enough emphasis on keeping jobs in America for American people," said Olah, who assembled Ford trucks in Virginia for 13 years before the company consolidated truck production closer to Detroit. "We should get more help for educated people to go to work." Many in the white working class share Olah's sentiments, according to a new CNN/Kaiser Family Foundation poll. Some 62% of white working class Americans said the federal government bears all or most of the blame for the economic troubles facing the working class. Yet, two-thirds also feel that the federal government doesn't do enough to help working class folks. Related: The 'forgotten tribe' in West Virginia Working class whites with lower incomes are more than twice as likely as their higher-earning peers to want more government assistance. While there's no set definition of the working class, CNN/KFF considers this group to include those without four-year college degrees for this poll. Among college-educated whites and working class blacks and Hispanics, the share that blame the government is less than half. And when it comes to whether the feds could do more to help the working class, 54% of educated whites agreed, while more than two-thirds of working class blacks and Hispanics stand with their white peers that the government could provide more assistance. However, some in the white working class want the federal government to do more for them specifically. Just over a third think Washington already does too much for racial and ethnic minorities, and 63% think it does too much for the wealthy. Related: White Working Class & Worried Where Olah lives, in rural Clearfield County, Pennsylvania, only 11.1% of white, non-Hispanic residents age 25 and older hold bachelor's degrees -- the lowest share among larger counties in the U.S. And, 93% of the county's roughly 80,000 residents are white, non-Hispanics, according to U.S. Census Bureau statistics. Olah moved to Clearfield in 2007 to be closer to his now ex-wife's family and worked as a mechanic for several years. After being laid off, he enrolled in York Career Institute. He just graduated last month. He has applied to the jails in the area, as well as at a Walmart distribution center, but he has yet to land anything. He went back to school because he thought it was the only way to find a decent-paying job to support his two teen children. Now, he's saddled with $22,000 in student loans. To get by, Olah and his kids receive $311 in food stamps and $264 in cash assistance each month, as well as public health coverage and a home energy subsidy. Still, Olah believes politicians and government workers at all levels are ineffective at best and corrupt at worst. They still get paid, he stresses, although nothing gets done to help struggling Americans like him. He'd like to see the federal government make college more affordable, revamp safety net programs to assist more people with low-wage jobs and provide more incentives for companies to create jobs. Some 34% of working class whites polled by CNN/KFF said someone in their household received government benefits in the past year (excluding Social Security and Medicare). That compares to 21% of college-educated whites, 61% of working class blacks and 48% of working class Hispanics. The most common benefits included Medicaid (19%), disability (12%) and food stamps (11%). Those already receiving public assistance are more likely than those who don't get aid to say the government doesn't do enough to help people like them, by a 63% to 47% split. Getting more aid to pay for higher education was a popular request among the Clearfield residents CNNMoney interviewed. Good paying positions that require only a high school diploma -- in the coal mines, brickyards and sewing factories -- have long since disappeared, and minimum-wage jobs in fast food or retail don't cover the bills, locals said. It wouldn't be hard for them to enroll as there are five colleges and technical schools in the county, including a branch of Pennsylvania State University. Related: The men America has left behind "You can't get by without a degree," said Shyanne Lowe, 22, a married mother of two who just started studying for an associate's degree in nursing at the Clearfield branch of Lock Haven University. "We tried the working class lifestyle and you can't get ahead." Lowe, who also works part-time at the front desk of a local hotel, said the federal government is going deeper into debt giving pay raises to politicians and aid to other countries. Meanwhile, Americans pay high taxes but don't get free college, health care and other benefits that citizens in other nations receive. Instead, the government should provide more assistance to those trying to move up the economic ladder, said Lowe, whose husband is studying for his bachelor's degree in economics at Penn State and works part-time at a furniture and appliances store. She would like to see the feds lower tuition, offer paid maternity and paternity leave and make subsidized day care more widely available. Right now, the Lowes are paying most of their bills by taking out student loans, which they expect to climb into the six figures by the time they are done with school. They also receive food stamps, public health coverage and WIC assistance for women, infants and children. They are on a waiting list for subsidized day care, which currently costs them $900 a month for their two-year-old son and infant daughter. "There's no way we'd advance if we didn't do it this way," said Lowe, who lives in Clearfield borough. It didn't used to be like this in Clearfield County, which lies within the tree-covered rolling hills just off Interstate-80. Like in other parts of the U.S., high school graduates used to be able to make a comfortable living. The disappearance of those opportunities has fueled resentment among the working class. Robin Holt, 57, sees the struggles firsthand as a staffer at Central PA Community Action, a non-profit social services agency in Clearfield. Its clientele includes unemployed middle-aged men living in shelters with few job prospects. The federal government has good programs to help the needy, she said, but it must fund them better and make them more effective. Related: These Americans are fighting to bring manufacturing jobs back Holt, who also owns two rental properties and a laundromat, wonders why the feds bailed out the banks during the Great Recession instead of doing more to directly help Americans. The banks only made it harder for people to take out loans, said the West Decatur, Pennsylvania, resident. "If they gave everyone $100,000, that would have kick-started a lot of people," she said. Holt is saddled with $15,000 in student loans that got her halfway through a bachelor's degree in business management from Lock Haven University several years ago. She doesn't know whether it's worth the money to finish since well-paying jobs are hard to find in Clearfield these days. She makes $10.45 an hour now, compared to $12 an hour in the 1980s when she worked at a local sewing factory. Over and over again, those interviewed in Clearfield voiced disdain for government at all levels: Elected officials make promises they don't keep and don't get anything done. Bureaucrats just collect a paycheck and don't try to help those in need. That's why Heather Grimm, 33, doesn't bother voting. The single mother lives with her two young boys and fiancee, Jesse Harnish, in subsidized housing, which eats up about 40% of his monthly income from driving school and charter buses. She thinks politicians are greedy and the system is broken. Related: The anatomy of a white working class Trump voter Grimm, who worked from the age of 16 until nearly four years ago, said jobs in the area don't pay enough for her to buy a car and to put her kids in after-school programs. And if she were employed, she'd also lose her food stamps and other public assistance. The Clearfield borough, Pennsylvania, resident thinks the deck is stacked against working class folks like her. "The government makes the rules for us to follow," said Grimm. "But people get fed up. We are doing what we are supposed to be doing, but we're not getting anywhere." White, Working Class & Worried is a CNN partnership with the Kaiser Family Foundation - an extensive survey of white, working class Americans and voters who form a backbone of the support for Donald Trump. See more tonight on Anderson Cooper 360. About the survey: CNN partnered with The Kaiser Family Foundation to conduct an in-depth survey of the white working class in America, their politics, their perceptions of America's changing demographics, the economy, immigration, their personal finances, their faith, among others. This group has become increasingly important to the 2016 presidential race since they have been a key support to Donald Trump's bid for the White House. Here are the full results of the survey.
(CNN) The company behind "Sesame Street" is suing the makers of Melissa McCarthy's upcoming raunchy comedy, "The Happytime Murders," for referencing the popular kids show in its marketing campaign. The R-rated film follows "two clashing detectives" -- Melissa McCarthy and her partner, a puppet named Phil Phillips -- in Los Angeles as they work together "to solve the brutal murders of the former cast of a beloved classic puppet television show," according to its website But it's not the film's use of profane puppets that "Sesame Street" is upset about. It's the tagline used in the film's marketing campaign -- "No Sesame. All Street." She's flesh. He's felt. Both are out for justice in #HappyTimeMurders. pic.twitter.com/yJgSnBEWo9 — Happytime Murders (@HappytimeMovie) May 23, 2018 In the lawsuit obtained by CNN, Sesame Workshop, the educational organization behind the long-running childrens show, argues that STX Entertainment does not have the right to use "Sesame Street" in its tagline. The lawsuit particularly cites use of the tagline in the film's "just-released trailer with explicit, profane, drug-using, misogynistic, violent, copulating, and even ejaculating puppets." Read More
Jill Filipovic is a journalist based in New York and Nairobi, Kenya, and the author of the book " The H-Spot: The Feminist Pursuit of Happiness ." Follow her on Twitter . The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) Melania Trump is skipping the World Economic Forum in Davos this year ("scheduling and logistical issues," said the White House). Good for her. Mrs. Trump was scheduled to attend the event to show support for her husband. Her cancellation comes after The Wall Street Journal, citing sources familiar with the matter, reported that Donald Trump's lawyer arranged a payout for pornography actress Stormy Daniels to ensure that she stayed quiet about an alleged sexual encounter with Mr. Trump -- just a few months after Mrs. Trump gave birth to the couple's son, Barron. Mrs. Trump has not made any public statements since that story broke. Nor should she have to. If the media wants to train its gaze on the important news, it can focus on Mr. Trump's behavior, not his wife: Ater all, she didn't do anything other than decide to skip an overpriced conference after some bad marital news. It would be great, of course, if Melania Trump could leave him and take half his assets. But she knows who she married, and you can't imagine this comes as a huge surprise (which also explains why it's not a career-ending story -- of course Donald Trump allegedly slept with a porn star while away from his postpartum third wife; that's just the kind of guy he is). JUST WATCHED Group: Payment to porn star may be illegal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Group: Payment to porn star may be illegal 01:51 Indeed, Mr. Trump's chief enablers seem utterly OK with the tawdry reports -- and they include the very people you would expect it to most deeply offend: some leading evangelical Christians. According to Tony Perkins of the right-wing Family Research Council, Trump gets "a mulligan" on reports of cheating and other misbehavior; evangelicals "were tired of being kicked around by Barack Obama and his leftists," Perkins explained to Politico. As it happens, Trump is also sufficiently misogynist in the ways that matter to Perkins -- opposing abortion rights, for example, and limiting the ability of transgender people to be treated with dignity and equality. Melania Trump may be drawing from the same rule book; her husband hasn't tried to hide his misogyny or his past infidelities, so it's a little hard to feel bad for a woman apparently willing to trade her good looks and basic respect for her philandering husband's financial largess. But that doesn't mean she needs to participate in this public humiliation ritual -- to fly to his side in Switzerland and play the role of the silent wronged wife. JUST WATCHED Stormy Daniels appears amid affair claim Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Stormy Daniels appears amid affair claim 02:33 Nor does Mrs. Trump have much to do at Davos. She isn't a leader (or, by all appearances, even a thinker) on global business or politics; unlike some previous first ladies before her, she doesn't seem to have any interest in global affairs. Sure, she would be playing the role of helpmeet wife, but maybe the time for women to play that role while their husbands do the important stuff should go by the wayside. Mrs. Trump doesn't have any good reason to be at Davos. Why should she go? And for that matter, why do any of us care whether the first lady, a former model who seemed happier in a Fifth Avenue penthouse than holed up at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, attends the World Economic Forum? JUST WATCHED WSJ: Trump lawyer formed LLC to pay porn star Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH WSJ: Trump lawyer formed LLC to pay porn star 02:50 Our unseemly laser focus on Melania Trump is pure prurience -- not about her, but about the fallout from her husband's bad choices. Again, she is a symbol of how others (and especially women) bear the cost of Mr. Trump's egoism and lack of self-control. So what should Melania do? Mr. Trump should go to Davos himself while she spends a few days at the spa. And while he's there, the men and women (although let's be honest, mostly men) of global business, politics and development should treat him with exactly the level of respect a deeply misogynist narcissist merits. Journalists should demand he answer for the alleged payouts to silence Stormy Daniels rather than focus on an affair. And we should all leave Melania alone.
This article originally appeared at TomDispatch.com. To receive TomDispatch in your inbox three times a week, click here. By Rebecca Gordon They are like the camel’s nose, lifting a corner of the tent. Don’t be fooled, though. It won’t take long until the whole animal is sitting inside, sipping your tea and eating your sweets. In countries around the world ― in the Middle East, Asia Minor, Central Asia, Africa, even the Philippines ― the appearance of U.S. drones in the sky (and on the ground) is often Washington’s equivalent of the camel’s nose entering a new theater of operations in this country’s forever war against “terror.” Sometimes, however, the drones are more like the camel’s tail, arriving after less visible U.S. military forces have been in an area for a while. Scrambling for Africa AFRICOM, the Pentagon’s Africa Command, is building Air Base 201 in Agadez, a town in the nation of Niger. The $110 million installation, which officially opens later this year, will be able to house both C-17 transport planes and MQ-9 Reaper armed drones. It will soon become the new centerpiece in an undeclared U.S. war in West Africa. Even before the base opens, armed U.S. drones are already flying from Niger’s capital, Niamey, having received permission from the Nigerien government to do so last November. Despite crucial reporting by Nick Turse and others, most people in this country only learned of U.S. military activities in Niger in 2017 (and had no idea that about 800 U.S. military personnel were already stationed in the country) when news broke that four U.S. soldiers had died in an October ambush there. It turns out, however, that they weren’t the only U.S soldiers involved in firefights in Niger. This March, the Pentagon acknowledged that another clash took place last December between Green Berets and a previously unknown group identified as ISIS-West Africa. For those keeping score at home on the ever-expanding enemies list in Washington’s war on terror, this is a different group from the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS), responsible for the October ambush. Across Africa, there have been at least eight other incidents, most of them in Somalia. What are U.S. forces doing in Niger? Ostensibly, they are training Nigerien soldiers to fight the insurgent groups rapidly multiplying in and around their country. Apart from the uranium that accounts for over 70% of Niger’s exports, there’s little of economic interest to the United States there. The real appeal is location, location, location. Landlocked Niger sits in the middle of Africa’s Sahel region, bordered by Mali and Burkina Faso on the west, Chad on the east, Algeria and Libya to the north, and Benin and Nigeria to the south. In other words, Niger has the misfortune to straddle a part of Africa of increasing strategic interest to the United States. In addition to ISIS-West Africa and ISGS, actual or potential U.S. targets there include Boko Haram (born in Nigeria and now spread to Mali and Chad), ISIS and al-Qaeda in the Lands of the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) in Libya, and Al Mourabitoun, based primarily in Mali. At the moment, for instance, U.S. drone strikes on Libya, which have increased under the Trump administration, are generally launched from a base in Sicily. However, drones at the new air base in Agadez will be able to strike targets in all these countries. Suppose a missile happens to kill some Nigerien civilians by mistake (not exactly uncommon for U.S. drone strikes elsewhere)? Not to worry: AFRICOM is covered. A U.S.-Niger Status of Forces Agreement guarantees that there won’t be any repercussions. In fact, according to the agreement, “The Parties waive any and all claims... against each other for damage to, loss, or destruction of the other’s property or injury or death to personnel of either Party’s armed forces or their civilian personnel.” In other words, the United States will not be held responsible for any “collateral damage” from Niger drone strikes. Another clause in the agreement shields U.S. soldiers and civilian contractors from any charges under Nigerien law. The introduction of armed drones to target insurgent groups is part of AFRICOM’s expansion of the U.S. footprint on a continent of increasing strategic interest to Washington. In the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, European nations engaged in the “scramble for Africa,” a period of intense and destructive competition for colonial possessions on the continent. In the post-colonial 1960s and 1970s, the United States and the Soviet Union vied for influence in African countries as diverse as Egypt and what is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Today, despite AFRICOM’s focus on the war on terror, the real jockeying for influence and power on the continent is undoubtedly between this country and the People’s Republic of China. According to the Council on Foreign Relations, “China surpassed the United States as Africa’s largest trade partner in 2009” and has never looked back. “Beijing has steadily diversified its business interests in Africa,” the Council’s 2017 backgrounder continues, noting that from Angola to Kenya, “China has participated in energy, mining, and telecommunications industries and financed the construction of roads, railways, ports, airports, hospitals, schools, and stadiums. Investment from a mixture of state and private funds has also set up tobacco, rubber, sugar, and sisal plantations... Chinese investment in Africa also fits into Chinese President Xi Jinping’s development framework, ‘One Belt, One Road.’” For example, in a bid to corner the DRC’s cobalt and copper reserves (part of an estimated $24 trillion in mineral wealth there), two Chinese companies have formed Sicomines, a partnership with the Congolese government’s national mining company. The Pulitzer Center reports that Sicomines is expected “to extract 6.8 million tons of copper and 427,000 tons of cobalt over the next 25 years.” Cobalt is essential in the manufacture of today’s electronic devices ― from cell phones to drones ― and more than half of the world’s supply lies underground in the DRC. Even before breaking ground on Air Base 201 in Niger, the United States already had a major drone base in Africa, in the tiny country of Djibouti in the Horn of Africa, across the Gulf of Aden from Yemen. From there, the Pentagon has been directing strikes against targets in Yemen and Somalia. As AFRICOM commander Gen. Thomas Waldhauser told Congress in March, “Djibouti is a very strategic location for us.” Camp Lemonnier, as the base is known, occupies almost 500 acres near the Djibouti-Ambouli International Airport. U.S. Central Command, Special Operations Command, European Command, and Transportation Command all use the base. At present, however, it appears that U.S. drones stationed in Djibouti and bound for Yemen and Somalia take off from nearby Chabelley Airfield, as Bard College’s Center for the Study of the Drone reports. To the discomfort of the U.S. military, the Chinese have recently established their first base in Africa, also in Djibouti, quite close to Camp Lemonnier. That country is also horning in on potential U.S. sales of drones to other countries. Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab emirates are among U.S. allies known to have purchased advanced Chinese drones. The Means Justify the End? From the beginning, the CIA’s armed drones have been used primarily to kill specific individuals. The Bush administration launched its global drone assassination program in October 2001 in Afghanistan, expanded it in 2002 to Yemen, and later to other countries. Under President Barack Obama, White House oversight of such assassinations only gained momentum (with an official “kill list” and regular “terror Tuesday” meetings to pick targets). The use of drones expanded 10-fold, with growing numbers of attacks in Pakistan, Yemen, Libya, and Somalia, as well as in the Afghan, Iraqi, and Syrian war zones. Early on, targets were generally people identified as al-Qaeda leaders or “lieutenants.” In later years, the kill lists grew to include supposed leaders or members of a variety of other terror organizations, and eventually even unidentified people engaged in activities that were to bear the “signature” of terrorist activity. But those CIA drones, destructive as they were (leaving civilian dead, including children, in their wake) were just the camel’s nose ― a way to smuggle in a major change in U.S. policy. We’ve grown so used to murder by drone in the last 17 years that we’ve lost sight of an important fact: such assassinations represented a fundamental (and unlawful) change in U.S. military strategy. Because unpiloted airplanes eliminate the physical risk to American personnel, the United States has embraced a strategy of global extrajudicial executions: presidential assassinations on foreign soil. It’s a case of the means justifying the end. The drones work so well at so little cost (to us) that it must be all right to kill people with them. Successive administrations have implemented this strategic change with little public discussion. Critiques of the drone program tend to focus ― not unreasonably ― on the many additional people (like family members) who are injured or die along with the intended targets, and on civilians who should never have been targets in the first place. But few critics point out that executing foreign nationals without trial in other countries is itself wrong and illegal under U.S. law, as well as that of other countries where some of the attacks have taken place, and of course, international law. How have the Bush, Obama, and now Trump administrations justified such killings? The same way they justified the expansion of the war on terror itself to new battle zones around the world ― through Congress’s September 2001 Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF). That law permitted the president “to use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations or persons.” Given that many of the organizations the United States is targeting with drones today didn’t even exist when that AUMF was enacted and so could hardly have “authorized” or “aided” in the 9/11 attacks, it offers, at best, the thinnest of coverage indeed for such a worldwide program. Droning On and On George W. Bush launched the CIA’s drone assassination program and that was just the beginning. Even as Barack Obama attempted to reduce the number of U.S. ground troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, he ramped up the use of drones, famously taking personal responsibility for targeting decisions. By some estimates, he approved 10 times as many drone attacks as Bush. In 2013, the Obama administration introduced new guidelines for drone strikes, supposedly designed to guarantee with “near certainty” the safety of civilians. Administration officials also attempted to transfer most of the operational responsibility for drone attacks from the CIA to the military’s only-slightly-less-secretive Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC). Although the number of CIA strikes did drop, the Agency remained in a position to rev up its program at any time, as the Washington Post reported in 2016: “U.S. officials emphasized that the CIA has not been ordered to disarm its fleet of drones, and that its aircraft remain deeply involved in counterterrorism surveillance missions in Yemen and Syria even when they are not unleashing munitions.” It’s indicative of how easily drone killings have become standard operating procedure that, in all the coverage of the confirmation hearings for the CIA’s new director, Gina Haspel, there was copious discussion of the Agency’s torture program, but not a public mention of, let alone a serious question about, its drone assassination campaign. It’s possible the Senate Intelligence Committee discussed it in their classified hearing, but the general public has no way of knowing Haspel’s views on the subject. However, it shouldn’t be too hard to guess. It’s clear, for instance, that President Trump has no qualms about the CIA’s involvement in drone killings. When he visited the Agency’s headquarters in Langley, Virginia, the day after his inauguration, says the Post, “Trump urged the CIA to start arming its drones in Syria. ‘If you can do it in 10 days, get it done,’ he said.” At that same meeting, CIA officials played a tape of a drone strike for him, showing how they’d held off until the target had stepped far enough away from the house that the missile would miss it (and so its occupants). His only question: “Why did you wait?” You may recall that, while campaigning, the president told Fox News that the U.S. should actually be targeting certain civilians. “The other thing with the terrorists,” he said, “is you have to take out their families, when you get these terrorists, you have to take out their families. They care about their lives, don’t kid yourself. When they say they don’t care about their lives, you have to take out their families.” In other words, he seemed eager to make himself a future murderer-in-chief. How, then, has U.S. drone policy fared under Trump? The New York Times has reported major changes to Obama-era policies. Both the CIA’s and the military’s “kill lists” will no longer be limited to key insurgent leaders, but expanded to include “foot-soldier jihadists with no special skills or leadership roles.” The Times points out that this “new approach would appear to remove some obstacles for possible strikes in countries where Qaeda- or Islamic State-linked militants are operating, from Nigeria to the Philippines.” And no longer will attack decisions only be made at the highest levels of government. The requirement for having a “near certainty” of avoiding civilian casualties ― always something of a fiction ― officially remains in place for now, but we know how seriously Trump takes such constraints. He’s already overseen the expansion of the drone wars in other ways. In general, that “near certainty” constraint doesn’t apply to officially designated war zones (“areas of active hostility”), where the lower standard of merely avoiding unnecessary civilian casualties prevails. In March 2017, Trump approved a Pentagon request to identify large parts of Yemen and Somalia as areas of “active hostility,” allowing leeway for far less carefully targeted strikes in both places. At the time, however, AFRICOM head General Thomas D. Waldhauser said he would maintain the “near certainty” standard in Somalia for now (which, as it happens, hasn’t stopped Somali civilians from dying by drone strike). Another change affects the use of drones in Pakistan and potentially elsewhere. Past drone strikes in Pakistan officially targeted people believed to be “high value” al-Qaeda figures, on the grounds that they (like all al-Qaeda leaders) represented an “imminent threat” to the United States. However, as a 2011 Justice Department paper explained, imminence is in the eye of the beholder: “With respect to al-Qaeda leaders who are continually planning attacks, the United States is likely to have only a limited window of opportunity within which to defend Americans.” In other words, once identified as an al-Qaeda leader or the leader of an allied group, you are by definition “continually planning attacks” and always represent an imminent danger, making you a permanent legitimate target. Under Trump, however, U.S. drones are not only going after those al-Qaeda targets permitted under the 2001 AUMF, but also targeting Afghan Taliban across the border in Pakistan. In other words, these drone strikes are not a continuation of counterterrorism as envisioned under the AUMF, but rather an extension of a revitalized U.S. war in Afghanistan. In general, the law of war allows attacks on a neutral country’s territory only if soldiers chase an enemy across the border in “hot pursuit.” So the use of drones to attack insurgent groups inside Pakistan represents an unacknowledged escalation of the U.S. Afghan War. Another corner of the tent lifted by the camel’s nose? Transparency about U.S. wars in general, and airstrikes in particular, has also suffered under Trump. The administration, for instance, announced in March that it had used a drone to kill “Musa Abu Dawud, a high-ranking official in al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb,” as the New York Times reported. However, the Times continued, “questions about whether the American military, under the Trump administration, is blurring the scope of operations in Africa were raised... when it was revealed that the U.S. had carried out four airstrikes in Libya from September to January that the Africa Command did not disclose at the time.” Similarly, the administration has been less than forthcoming about its activities in Yemen. As the Business Insiderreports (in a story updated from the Long War Journal), the U.S. has attacked al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) there repeatedly, but “of the more than 114 strikes against AQAP in Yemen, CENTCOM has only provided details on four, all of which involved high value targets.” Because Trump has loosened the targeting restrictions for Yemen, it’s likely that the other strikes involved low-level targets, whose identity we won’t know. Just Security, an online roundtable based at New York University, reports the total number of airstrikes there in 2017 as 120. They investigated eight of these and “found that U.S. operations were responsible for the deaths of at least 32 civilians ― including 16 children and six women ― and injured 10 others, including five children.” Yemeni civilians had a suggestion for how the United States could help them avoid becoming collateral damage: give them “a list of wanted individuals. A list that is clear and available to the public so that they can avoid targeted individuals, protect their children, and not allow U.S. targets to have a presence in their areas.” A 2016 executive order requires that the federal director of national intelligence issue an annual report by May 1st on the previous year’s civilian deaths caused by U.S. airstrikes outside designated “active hostility” zones. As yet, the Trump administration has not filed the 2017 report. Bigger and Better Camels Coming Soon to a Tent Near You This March, a jubilant Fox News reported that the Marine Corps is planning to build a fancy new drone, called the MUX, for Marine Air Ground Task Force Unmanned Aircraft System-Expeditionary. This baby will sport quite a set of bells and whistles, as Fox marveled: “The MUX will terrify enemies of the United States, and with good reason. The aircraft won’t be just big and powerful: it will also be ultra-smart. This could be a heavily armed drone that takes off, flies, avoids obstacles, adapts and lands by itself ― all without a human piloting it.” In other words, “the MUX will be a drone that can truly run vital missions all by itself.” Between pulling out of the Iran agreement and moving the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, Trump has made it clear that ― despite his base’s chants of “Nobel! Nobel!” ― he has no interest whatsoever in peace. It looks like the future of the still spreading war on terror under Trump is as clear as MUX. Rebecca Gordon, a TomDispatch regular, teaches at the University of San Francisco. She is the author of American Nuremberg: The U.S. Officials Who Should Stand Trial for Post-9/11 War Crimes. Her previous books include Mainstreaming Torture: Ethical Approaches in the Post-9/11 United Statesand Letters from Nicaragua. Follow TomDispatch on Twitter and join us on Facebook. Check out the newest Dispatch Book, Tom Engelhardt’s A Nation Unmade by War, as well as Alfred McCoy’s In the Shadows of the American Century: The Rise and Decline of U.S. Global Power, John Dower’s The Violent American Century: War and Terror Since World War II, John Feffer’s dystopian novel Splinterlands, and Nick Turse’s Next Time They’ll Come to Count the Dead. Copyright 2018 Rebecca Gordon
Story highlights A 4-year-old girl strikes up conversation with lonely senior citizen 82-year-old Dan Peterson's wife died six months earlier (CNN) Four-year-old Norah Wood of Augusta, Georgia, went with her mother to the grocery store to buy some birthday cupcakes. She ended up changing a life. It started late last month with some simple kind words she shouted to a lonely older man in the aisle. He was taciturn and "stone-faced" Norah's mother, Tara Wood, told CNN on Thursday. "Hi, old person!" Norah yelled from her cart. "It's my birfday today!" The man's face lit up. "How old are you today?" he asked. Read More
DESTREHAN, La. — A prosperity gospel televangelist is asking disciples to "pray about becoming a partner'' to his mission of obtaining a US$54-million private jet. The Louisiana-based ministry of Jesse Duplantis has already paid cash for three other private planes, but he says God told him "I want you to believe in me for a Falcon 7X.'' NOLA.com/The Times-Picayune reports that Duplantis made the pitch to his followers in the May 21 edition of his weekly video address. Duplantis says the three-engine plane would allow the ministry to fly "anywhere in the world in one stop,'' reducing fuel costs while maintaining a global reach. Duplantis says Jesus Christ "wouldn't be riding a donkey'' today — "he'd be in an airplane flying all over the world.'' Also on HuffPost:
UPDATE 4:04 p.m.: Mitchell International has reopened after the emergency landing, according to airport official Harold Mester. The airport also tweeted advising travelers to check their flight times. Airfield has reopened. Check with your airline for the latest flight status. — MKE - Milwaukee Airport (@MitchellAirport) May 30, 2018 ------ ORIGINAL STORY: MILWAUKEE -- A military plane has arrived safely at General Mitchell International Airport after it experienced what is believed to be a lightning strike, according to the 128th Air Refueling Wing. Tower cam footage showed several emergency vehicles assisting the KC-135 plane on the runway. Two tires were blown out upon landing. Because the airplane is currently disabled on the on the runway, the airport will be closed to all incoming and departing flights for at least an hour, the 128th says. The other primary runway was already closed due to ongoing construction. There's no word yet on why caused the emergency, or if anyone on board was hurt.
Douglas Heye is a CNN political commentator and former deputy chief of staff to then-House Majority Leader Eric Cantor. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) Shortly after Wednesday morning's attack on Republican members of Congress practicing for the annual Congressional Baseball Game, Congressman Rodney Davis, still in his baseball clothes, spoke to CNN's Brianna Keilar. In addition to describing the events he witnessed, he spoke from the heart. "This hatefulness that we see in this country today over policy differences has got to stop ... Republicans and Democrats need to use this day today to stand together and say 'stop.' Let's work together. Let's get things done," he said. "We can have our differences, but let's not let it lead to such hate." We should all heed Congressman Davis' call, including our President. Since his announcement to run for office, Donald Trump has consistently yelled fire in a crowded political theater by castigating various segments of our population and encouraging his supporters to " knock the crap " out of protesters. And on and on. Many Donald Trump supporters have followed his lead, escalating the rhetoric against political opponents and the media. A reporter was choke-slammed in Montana. And before Trump, too many Republicans engaged in awful and, let's face it, racist attacks on President Obama. Perhaps even worse, too many Republicans watched this happen and remained silent. Meanwhile, town halls, opportunities that should allow for a respectful dialogue between elected officials and voters, have become opposition events where silencing and jeering the politician has become the norm. President Trump holds the world's largest microphone and therefore can do the most to quell much of the angry rhetoric we've seen. But it doesn't end with our President. Since he was elected, many Democrats have continually upped the ante to out-resist each other in opposition to President Trump. Their behavior has created an environment where Democratic lawmakers routinely stoop to foul language in public events. It's also a climate where a comedian and a theater company feel it's somehow acceptable to post gruesome pictures of a decapitated president or stage a Shakespeare classic to envision the assassination of a politician who bears a strong resemblance to Donald Trump. And in this case, where the shooter appears to have been a volunteer for Bernie Sanders, Democrats too have some soul-searching to do. Senator Sanders has strongly condemned the suspect, and he is right that "violence of any kind is unacceptable in our society." These things accumulate, which means they inevitably escalate. And whether the targets are Republican members of Congress, like today, or Democratic politicians or members of the media, it was perhaps inescapable that something tragic was coming in an environment like this. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Politics is a business with a lot of tough talk where contrasts and distinctions are constantly drawn. Negative ads have become an artform. But what we've seen in recent years is different. Increasingly, we question not just the judgment of those we disagree with, but each others' motives and legitimacy. On the far ends of the political spectrum, invective and hate -- or a blind "us versus them" tribal mentality -- stand above reason and debate. Those voices gain prominence and followers as the media incentivize them to go further by giving them airtime and clicks. Our nation faces many challenges, but healing our divisions may be our biggest one. More than Obamacare, tax reform, ISIS or our national debt, this rhetoric, and the divisions it causes, directly constrains our ability to tackle other issues.
Stephanie Coontz teaches history at Evergreen State College and wrote the newly revised, " The Way We Never Were: American Families and the Nostalgia Trap ." The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) The problems bothering white Americans without a college degree have less to do with immediate economic insecurity or material hardship, although those are widespread, than with the collapse of a whole way of life. Following World War II, production workers experienced three decades of unprecedented economic and social gains. But since the end of the 1970s, they have seen a nearly unremitting decline in their real wages, working conditions and social status, along with a loss of the interpersonal and work networks that were once the basis of their upward progress and their entire community's stability. One pastor who has ministered to a congregation of whites in post-industrial central Philadelphia and to a rural congregation in Wisconsin said this of his parishioners: "Every time something changed in their lives, it changed for the worse. And I mean just about every stinking time." The rise and fall of stability in working-class life explains much that otherwise seems puzzling in the responses to this week's CNN-Kaiser Family Foundation poll. We've heard much about working-class anger. Yet the poll reveals a rather uncomplaining acceptance of what is, in many cases, a far from an easy life. Sixty-three percent of white working-class respondents say they are "very" or "somewhat" satisfied with their personal financial situation, even though in the past year 46% of them say they postponed medical or dental care and half took an extra job or added work hours to make ends meet. About 30% of those who are employed face the stress of work shifts that change every week. But 76% say they are optimistic about what's going on in their personal life, and 77% of those who are working believe their jobs are secure. However, this willingness to see the upside of difficult living conditions coexists with a deep pessimism about the future, and especially their children's future. Fully half of working-class whites expect their children's lives will be worse than their own. Fewer than one-quarter expect their children to do better. Working-class blacks and Hispanics are far more optimistic than their white counterparts, even though the unemployment rate of blacks without a college degree is twice as high as that of whites, as is the percentage of black workers who are working part time although they want full-time jobs. On average, blacks and Hispanics have lower incomes and are less likely to own their homes. They lost more ground than whites during the recession and have regained less ground since. Yet 36% of working-class blacks and 48% of working-class Hispanics believe their children will do better than they. Another striking difference is that only 45% of whites without a college education, compared to almost 75% of blacks and Hispanics, say their life would be better if they had a four-year college degree. Fifty-one percent of the whites think it would make no difference, and 3% feel it would have made things worse. These attitudes stem from the tremendous leap forward that white working-class Americans made in the 1950s and 1960s. People who study race relations in America often talk about white privilege, but this is a relative concept when it comes to the working class. For 200 years, elites had encouraged a sense of white superiority to defuse class resentments and head off interracial class alliances. But as in so many conflicts, the foot soldiers of white dominance seldom got a very large share of the spoils. Low-income whites were given preference over minorities in hiring, wages, and promotions (except during strikes, when employers were quick to replace strikers with minorities whom they fired afterward, reinforcing hostility on both sides). Yet their relative advantages over workers of other races did not produce a life of privilege for white production workers, who earned low wages with few benefits, faced frequent layoffs and suffered high rates of on-the-job injuries. A coal miner's boot remains inside the St. Nicholas Coal Breaker in Manahoy City, Pennsylvania. Life got better In the decades after World War II, though, life got much better for white male workers and their families. The tremendous growth of unions, along with new government regulations, put a stop to some of the exploitative practices of employers. Meanwhile, from 1950 to 1979, government invested in infrastructure and new technologies at almost twice the rate since 1980, creating rapid blue-collar job growth. For the first time, the American Dream came within reach for white blue-collar workers-- a dream not of immense wealth but of the ability to sustain a comfortable family life by working hard and well at your job. Between 1947 and 1973, the real wages of the average young male worker without a college education doubled as he moved from age 25 to 35. In 1959, the average 30-year-old man could pay the mortgage on a median-priced home using only 18% of his gross monthly pay. For the first time, the American Dream came within reach for white blue-collar workers-- a dream not of immense wealth but of the ability to sustain a comfortable family life by working hard and well at your job. Stephanie Coontz And his wages continued to rise through his working life as new seniority laws prevented aging workers from being displaced or demoted. A man passing from age 40 to 50 saw his earnings increase by another 30 percent. Perhaps more important psychologically was that young people in that era could see that they were doing much better than their parents. In 1961, men aged 25 to 29 were, on average, earning four times more in real wages than their fathers at about the same age. A different kind of success The basis of success in working-class communities was very different from how success is gained by today's mobile professionals. Working-class neighborhoods clustered around sources of employment, within walking distance from the small businesses that depended on them for customers, and often within sight of the homes of the managers who supervised them. There was suspicion of strangers, and racial segregation was the norm, but there was less separation by class and income than today. Their bosses often frequented the same churches. Educated professionals had enough close contact with workers to respect the skill and stamina involved in what economists now call "routine" or "semi-skilled" labor. At churches, work, and schools, people were enmeshed in stable personal networks that were far from egalitarian but were often the main way young men found a job and small businesses built their base. If you worked hard, respected your place in the social hierarchy, and conformed to community standards, you could expect to get a decent job, have the satisfaction of doing better than your own parents, and see your own kids do better than you. Coming out of this tradition, it's no wonder that half of these individuals don't think having a four-year degree would have helped them. Their frame of reference is a world where you didn't need to go to college to do better than your father. It often made more sense to simply follow in his footsteps. The erosion of such communities and workplaces has been going on for almost 40 years. Many manufacturing jobs have been lost or outsourced. Most that are still around or have come back now pay lower wages and provide fewer benefits. Between 1947 and 1979, for example, real wages of meatpacking workers increased by an average of 80 percent (to just under $40,000 per year in constant dollars). But from 1979 to 2012, those wages declined by 30%, to about $27,000 a year. The old social contract -- and the old social contacts -- have, for good and for ill, ceased to organize work and community life. For the past three decades, the average young man without a college degree has consistently done worse than his father. Between 1979 and 2007, young men with a high school degree suffered, on average, a 29% decline in real earnings. For the past three decades, the average young man without a college degree has consistently done worse than his father. Stephanie Coontz Humans see things in relative terms. When we assess our present position and prospects, we do so in relation to our past experiences and expectations. Most white working-class Americans are still better off than most black and Hispanic non-college-educated workers, but they have been on a long, demoralizing downward slope. By contrast, although blacks and Hispanics started from a much lower base, they have seen remarkable progress since the early 1960s, despite suffering more than whites during recessions. It is not surprising that so many white workers are pessimistic about their future. Even if their changes for the worse leave them better off than many of their black and Hispanic counterparts, people usually focus more on what they've lost rather than on the narrowing edge they may retain over others. Why not go to college? But why, many ask, aren't lower-income white men flocking to college? It's more complicated than lack of initiative. Ironically, one thing that now holds white working-class men back is the residue of their traditional race and gender bonus: Men who drop out of college initially earn, on average, as much as men who have recently completed their degree. The college advantage multiplies over time, but it's tempting -- although self-defeating in the long run -- to start earning as much as Joe the new college grad without foregoing earnings for several years or taking on debt. Furthermore, going to college can be risky for people whose parents can't offer substantial support. Older Americans who brag of working their way through college may not realize that between 1975 and 2015, tuition and fees grew by more than 200% at community colleges and at private, nonprofit, four-year colleges and universities -- after accounting for inflation. At public four-year colleges and universities, they grew by nearly 300%. In 1979, the average student at a four-year university could pay for tuition by working just 182 hours per year. By 2013, the average student had to work 991 hours. And unlike the early 1970s, most available aid takes the form of loans rather than outright grants. A recent study of 3,000 young adults who entered public four-year institutions in Wisconsin found that even with the help of Pell grants, college was still unaffordable. Only half the students received any credential within six years, a long time to put earnings on hold. Almost 40% dropped out, many saddled with debt that put them further behind than when they started. Even getting a degree does not guarantee getting a job that allows you to pay off debts. Since 2000, employment of college grads has grown more rapidly in low-earning than high-earning jobs. Many liberal politicians have failed to acknowledge those realities, and many conservatives have manipulated them to fan racial resentments. It's not just Trump who's been stirring the pot. Racial fears have been whipped up for years by the same politicians who now piously denounce them. Think Reagan's Welfare Queen, George H. Bush's Willie Horton, Jeb Bush's "free stuff" remarks, and the Clintons' "Super-predators." Racism is not the only reason for Trump's popularity. A significant number of Trump supporters say they voted for Obama in 2012, and so far Obama seems to have done better with white working-class voters in Florida, Ohio, and Iowa than Clinton is currently doing. Blaming it on race But the legacy of racism runs deep, especially in the old Confederacy. And in the absence of a clear acknowledgement of how and why white working-class men and communities have suffered and without any firm commitment to turn that around, many whites have been persuaded to blame their declining fortunes on blacks and immigrants. In the 1950s, race outweighed education in determining wage rates. On average, white men with only a high school degree out-earned blacks with a college degree. Today, education outweighs race. But many working-class whites don't yet realize that this is not a result of reversed racial preferences but of new market preferences: Studies confirm that employers still favor white men over blacks in most labor markets where applicants have equal education. When nearly identical résumés are sent out, for example, the candidate with a white-sounding name receives more callbacks than the applicant with a black-sounding name. Some whites look at the gains of black professionals, formerly held back by legally enforced discrimination, and say that "those people" are taking a job that could be theirs. Yet if educated minorities weren't in the picture, it would be OTHER white people, from more privileged families, taking those jobs. And when liberals respond by framing equal rights as a matter of "compassion" or "tolerance," without mentioning the growing class divide, it's not entirely surprising that sections of the white working class mishear calls for diversity as endorsement of their accelerating marginalization. As one young man complained while we were both waiting for relatives receiving treatment in a New Orleans hospital, "everybody talks about the problems of the blacks, the illegals, the gays, the transgenders. But I see a lot more of them getting ahead than white guys like me." And an older woman told me "I actually voted for hope and change, but we haven't gotten it down here, so when Clinton says, 'oh we already ARE great,' she loses me. Stay up to date on the latest opinion, analysis and conversations through social media. Join us at Facebook/CNNOpinion and follow us @CNNOpinion on Twitter. We welcome your ideas and comments. None of this excuses racist reactions. The tragedy is that in the "good old days" for white Americans without a college degree, their prosperity was less dependent on their unfair advantages over minorities than on a social consensus reaching across both parties that government could and should invest in infrastructure projects that create jobs for working people and enforce policies that protect workers' bargaining power. In the 1960s, when civil-rights activism extended those opportunities and protections to minorities as well as whites, this resulted in increased progress for workers in general and for racial equality. The political challenge today is how to acknowledge the legitimate sense of loss and exclusion experienced by white workers while persuading them that reestablishing racial and masculine privileges is a poor substitute for ensuring secure rights for all workers and getting rid of a political decision-making process that is rigged against them by business lobbyists and financial interest groups. So far, most of Trump's establishment critics have failed to persuasively explain how they would create well-paying jobs and improve working people's bargaining power. Stephanie Coontz So far, most of Trump's establishment critics have failed to persuasively explain how they would create well-paying jobs and improve working people's bargaining power. So we see growing numbers of people who think that in a stacked deck, a "wild card" might not be such a bad thing. As a retired deputy sheriff from Montana put it, Trump is "risky" but at least he's looking at things "through a different scope." Attacking Trump's unpredictability might even help his cause. The last 40 years have been depressingly predictable for working-class communities and small towns, and Trump's critics need to establish that they too can be "change agents" -- but in a much more substantive way.
WASHINGTON ― Briefing reporters on the results of President Donald Trump’s first presidential medical evaluation, White House doctor Ronny Jackson on Tuesday emphasized the president’s “excellent” health and dismissed the question on many people’s minds since the recent release of Michael Wolff’s bombshell book: Is the president mentally up to his job? As HuffPost’s S.V. Date notes, “Wolff’s book, Fire and Fury, portrays a delusional, ignorant and impulsive chief executive who may also be suffering from a loss of his cognitive skills ― a description that has brought into public discourse what had previously been off-limits.” Some hoped Trump’s Friday’s medical evaluation would include a cognitive or psychiatric assessment of the 71-year-old president. The government recommends Medicare recipients over age 65 undergo a cognitive assessment as part of their annual physicals. Jackson stressed that Trump’s examination at Walter Reed Military Medical Center contained a cognitive assessment that the president passed with flying colors. He made sure to point out that the president passed a “longer, more difficult” version, and that administering it was “not driven by clinical concerns.” “There’s no indication that he has any cognitive issues,” Jackson said, adding that Trump “is very articulate when he speaks to me.” Later, he added that it was “impressive” that Trump “has a lot of energy and a lot of stamina,” and is “very sharp.” As far as Trump’s basic health statistics, he is 75 inches tall, weighs 239 pounds, has 20/30 vision, and had “normal” results for his motor and cognitive functions, as well as “above average exercise capacity based on age and sex,” according to Jackson. “In summary, the president’s overall health is excellent,” Jackson said. “All data indicates the president is healthy and will remain so for the duration of his presidency.” Jackson said he suggested Trump should try to lose between 10 to 15 pounds over the next year, and recommended a healthier diet and “a dedicated, defined exercise program.” “He would benefit from a diet that is lower in fat and carbohydrates,” Jackson said. The results are in line with what Trump disclosed during his campaign, in notes from both his personal doctor and, for some reason, Dr. Oz. His personal physician, Dr. Harold Bornstein ― who once famously made the dubious claim that Trump would become “the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency” ― reported in 2016 that Trump was 6-foot-3 and 236 pounds, took a statin to lower his cholesterol, and had no history of cancer or other major medical problems. But Trump’s erratic behavior as president, and his age, leave many Americans wondering if he might be suffering from some sort of cognitive decline. Yale University psychiatry professor Bandy Lee, who has not personally evaluated Trump, told HuffPost that “we’re seeing signs of impairment in the sitting president ... [and] it’s been markedly getting worse.” Trump last week fueled talk about his mental fitness, vehemently denying he has mental health issues and calling himself “a very stable genius.”
La creatividad no tiene límites, tampoco en el mundo de la estética. La última tendencia en manicura que arrasa en redes sociales salta todas las barreras de la imaginación y transporta los dientes a las manos. Ahora, los molares quedan a la vista del mundo. Estas uñas, que ya son virales —en Instagram se aúnan bajo el hashtag #teethnails— , se hacen con la manicura de gel, con esmaltes y moldes acrílicos. Incluso hay quienes añaden caries para innovar más, si cabe, o quienes unen molar, incisivo y canino en un solo dedo. I think I found my next style of nails.....💅 😁 👉Anyone know where I can get these done?! 👀Looking to get in sometime soon!! 7 Likes, 6 Comments - Elizabeth Scott (@_mom_with_a_purpose) on Instagram: "I think I found my next style of nails.....💅 😁 👉Anyone know where I can get these done?! 👀Looking..." Teeth Nails😮😮 #nails #teethnails 21 Likes, 7 Comments - HOMARELLL (@homarelll) on Instagram: "Teeth Nails😮😮 #nails #teethnails" Otros se atreven a hacerlas algo más simples, pero jugando con la temática del terror. Así, tampoco es difícil encontrar a quien se hace unos colmillos en el dedo índice y el meñique, con un poco de esmalte rojo en las puntas para simular la sangre. Las encías o los brackets también tienen cabida. They say beauty is in the eye of the beholder. We suppose the same statement must apply when it comes to beauty trends as well. Over the last two decades we have witnessed the rise and fall of colored contacts, fish pedicures, and even semen facials, but few other beauty trends are as weird-or terrifying-as teeth nails! Read and see more at HeyMikeyATL.com #Beauty #Nails #BeautyTrends #TeethNails #heymikey #HeyMikeyATL #beautyblogger #atlantablogger #nailart written by @heymikeyatl #MichaelJFanning #Mikey 7 Likes, 1 Comments - Currently Mikey W/ Rocc (@currentlymikeywrocc) on Instagram: "They say beauty is in the eye of the beholder. We suppose the same statement must apply when it..." Los hay para todos los gustos porque las teeth nails ya ha mordido el corazón de muchos. Mira aquí cómo hacerte esta manicura:
(CNN) A New York City grand jury on Wednesday indicted movie producer Harvey Weinstein on charges of rape in the first and third degrees and first-degree criminal sexual act, the Manhattan District Attorney's Office said. Weinstein, 66, was arraigned last week on the same charges, seven months after women began to come forward with stories alleging sexual misconduct by the famous Hollywood producer. Weinstein, who intends to plead not guilty, remains free after posting a $1 million cash bail, according to his attorney. The charges stemmed from incidents with two women in 2013 and 2004 and were the result of a joint investigation between police and prosecutors, according to the Manhattan district attorney. Weinstein is accused of forcing one woman to perform oral sex on him on one occasion between June and September 2004, the criminal complaint said. The alleged rape took place on March 18, 2013, the complaint said. Read More
Generation X has a gripe with pulse takers, zeitgeist keepers and population counters. We keep squeezing them out of the frame. This overlooked generation currently ranges in age from 34 to 49, which may be one reason they’re so often missing from stories about demographic, social and political change. They’re smack in the middle innings of life, which tend to be short on drama and scant of theme. But there are other explanations that have nothing to do with their stage of the life cycle. Gen Xers are bookended by two much larger generations – the Baby Boomers ahead and the Millennials behind – that are strikingly different from one another. And in most of the ways we take stock of generations – their racial and ethnic makeup; their political, social and religious values; their economic and educational circumstances; their technology usage – Gen Xers are a low-slung, straight-line bridge between two noisy behemoths. The charts below tell the tale. To be fair, there are a few metrics that don’t fit this straightforward pattern of generational evolution. For example, over the course of their voting lives, older Gen Xers have tended to be more Republican than both older Boomers and younger Millennials. Also, Xers are more pessimistic than both of those larger generations that they’ll have enough money for their retirement – though some of that negativity is doubtless tied to the economic stresses of middle age. Gen Xers also stand out in another way. In 2010 when Pew Research asked adults of all ages if they thought their own generation was unique, about six-in-ten Boomers and Millennials said yes. But only about half of Gen Xers said the same. And even among those who did, there was very little consensus about why they are distinctive. One reason Xers have trouble defining their own generational persona could be that they’ve rarely been doted on by the media. By contrast, Baby Boomers have been a source of media fascination from the get-go (witness their name). And Millennials, the “everybody-gets-a-trophy” generation, have been the subject of endless stories about their racial diversity, their political and social liberalism, their voracious technology use, and their grim economic circumstances. Gen Xers have also gotten the short end of basic generational arithmetic. Due partly to their parents’ relatively low fertility rates, there are fewer of them (65 million) than Boomers (77 million) or Millennials (an estimated 83 million assuming a roughly 20-year age span and including those who have yet to reach adulthood). But there’s another reason that Xers are a small generation: They’ve been deemed to span just 16 years, while most generations are credited with lasting for about 20 years. How come? No one really knows. Generational boundaries are fuzzy, arbitrary and culture-driven. Once fixed by the mysterious forces of the zeitgeist, they tend to firm up over time. One final slight: Even their name is a retread. World War II photographer Robert Capa first coined the term Generation X in a photo essay about the young adults of the 1950s, but the label didn’t stick the first time around. It was revived thirty years later by Canadian author Douglas Coupland, whose coming of age novel, Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture, was set in Southern California. For Xers, there’s one silver lining in all this. From everything we know about them, they’re savvy, skeptical and self-reliant; they’re not into preening or pampering, and they just might not give much of a hoot what others think of them. Or whether others think of them at all. Paul Taylor, executive vice president for special projects at the Pew Research Center, is the author of The Next America: Boomers, Millennials and the Looming Generational Showdown (Public Affairs, 2014). In other words, he’s part of the problem. Topics: Demographics, Political Attitudes and Values, Generations and Age
President Donald Trump announced Thursday that the historic summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will take place on June 12 in Singapore. The revelation follows Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s second visit to Pyongyang to meet with North Korean officials. Trump said Wednesday that a date and site had been set, but declined to reveal the details. The Trump administration has worked for months to bring the reclusive regime to the negotiating table. Enlisting China in helping spearhead the denuclearization dialogue, Trump has successfully set up the first face-to-face meeting between North Korean and American leaders. Kim Jong Un has also met with the leaders of China and South Korea to discuss regional security, resulting in the two Koreas declaring an official end to the Korean war.
(Reuters) - The teen charged with shooting 17 people dead at his former high school in Parkland, Fla., boasted of plans to commit mass murder in a series of cell phone videos recorded by him before the rampage and released on Wednesday by prosecutors. In one of the three video clips, Nikolas Cruz, 19, calmly declares, "Hello. My name is Nik and I'm going to be the next school shooter of 2018." He goes on to say: "My goal is to kill at least 20 people with an AR-15," referring to the assault-style rifle he is seen holding in the footage. Brandishing the rifle at another point, Cruz says: "You're all going to die," adding with a chuckle, "Can't wait." The video clips were part of an inventory of prosecution evidence recently shared with the defense team during the pre-trial discovery process, said Constance Jones-Simmons, a spokeswoman for the Broward County state attorney's office. The Miami Herald and other media outlets obtained copies through a public records request after seeing mention of the footage in court documents, she told Reuters. The three videos, none longer than 90 seconds in duration, are believed to have been made a short time before the shooting rampage on Feb. 14 at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, but Jones-Simmons said she did not know precisely when they were recorded. Cruz, a former Stoneman Douglas student expelled for disciplinary problems, has been described by former classmates as a social misfit and trouble-maker who was fascinated with guns. Police have said they responded to numerous calls related to the teenager in the years leading up to the massacre. But authorities, who say Cruz confessed to the killings after his arrest, have never offered a possible motive for the bloodshed. Release of the video "selfies," posted online by the Herald, shed little new light on that question except to suggest Cruz felt he was treated as an outcast. Caspen Becher (R) a freshman at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School is hugged as she joins with others for a 'die'-in' protest in a Publix supermarket on May 25, 2018 in Coral Springs, Florida. The activists, many of whom were students, entered the Publix store to protest against the company's support of political candidates endorsed by the National Rifle Association who oppose gun reform. In one video, Cruz said his former classmates thought he was "an idiot and a dumbass." He also professed his love for a girl he mentioned only by first name, and said he hoped to see her in the "afterlife." The gun seen in the video is apparently the rifle authorities say Cruz legally purchased from a licensed gun dealer last year and ultimately used as the murder weapon. He is charged with 17 counts of murder and 17 counts of attempted murder stemming from the Parkland killings, which rank as the second-greatest loss of life from gun violence at a public school in modern U.S. history, after a 2012 shooting rampage at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. that left 20 first-graders and six adult educators dead. The Florida shooting triggered an extraordinary protest movement and lobbying campaign for tougher gun control restrictions led by student survivors of the Parkland massacre and parents of the victims. Cruz, whose own lawyer had called him a "broken human being" who feels remorse for his crimes, is being held in the Broward County jail without bond in Fort Lauderdale, and is on suicide watch, officials said. (Reporting by Rich McKay in Atlanta; Editing by Steve Gorman; Editing by Michael Perry)
Story highlights The rapper had his wife on his team The show airs June 10 (CNN) Does Kanye West have an advantage on "Family Feud" since he has a way with words? The world will find out on a celebrity edition of the game show set to feature members of West's family, squaring off with his wife's famous clan. That's right, the Wests battle the Kardashians -- and survey says it will probably be unlike anything fans have seen before. West will have his wife, Kim Kardashian West, playing by his side, while her mother, Kris Jenner, and sisters make up the opposing team. In a clip from the show, West beats his mother-in-law to the buzzer and tells the show's host, Steve Harvey, "I'm here to win bruh, I'm here to win." Read More
(CNN) "Roseanne" star Michael Fishman, who has played D.J. Conner on the series since its start in 1988, says he's "devastated" following news of the show's cancellation, a move made by ABC on Tuesday after star Roseanne Barr went on a racist Twitter rant. "Today is one of the hardest in my life," he wrote in a note posted to Twitter. "I feel devastated, not for the end of the Roseanne show, but for all those who poured their hearts and souls into our jobs, and the audience that welcomed us into their homes." Earlier Tuesday, Barr made racist and offensive comments about former aid to President Obama, Valerie Jarrett, Chelsea Clinton and George Soros in a series of tweets. She later apologized and claimed to be taking a break from Twitter. ABC canceled the series just hours after she made her first comments. By then, comedian Wanda Sykes had already publicly quit as a consulting producer on the show. Read More
(CNN) A majority of adults who will be old enough to vote in 2018 say they are planning to, according to a poll released Wednesday conducted by AP-NORC and MTV. When asked to rate their likelihood on a scale of 1-10 (with 10 being "certain to vote"), 56% rated their likelihood at a 6 or above. Thirty-two percent said they were absolutely "certain to vote." The study, taken among people ages 15-34 (with questions about voting asked only among those who would be able to), found the group highly motivated by the political environment. Forty percent said they felt extremely or very angry about the state of the country and 36% said they felt anxious. Only 13% said they felt positive, with 9% saying they were excited about the state of the country. When asked, "how much can people like you affect what the government does," a majority (62%) said "a little" or "not at all." Only 13% said people like them can affect the government "a great deal" or "a lot" and 24% responded with "a moderate amount." As for how they're staying engaged with news about the midterm elections, the poll of 15-34-year-olds suggested are more likely to read or watch the news about the midterms rather than commenting or posting on on the midterms on social media. Fewer still (14%) said they would be participating in political events and 10% said they would volunteer for a campaign or issue. The issue most ages 15-34 say they are concerned about is gun laws, followed by the economy (including jobs, debt, poverty, and cost of living). Twenty-one percent cited gun laws (including school shootings) when asked the open-ended question "[o]f all of the issues facing the country right now, what concerns you the most?" Read More
Story highlights Ryan Bell, former pastor turned atheist, says we don't need a divinity to find meaning Bell: The absence of God has made him appreciate life and its potential even more Ryan Bell is a writer and speaker on the topic of religion and irreligion in America. In January 2014, Ryan began a yearlong journey to explore the limits of theism and the atheist landscape in the United States. He blogs about his experience on www.YearWithoutGod.com. (CNN) It was January 2014 and I was sitting on the beach in Malibu looking out at the seemingly endless Pacific Ocean, ebbing and flowing. I had just begun a personal project of challenging my lifelong assumption that God exists. You see, I had been a Seventh-day Adventist pastor for 19 years. I resigned from my pastoral position the year before , but now I stepped away from my faith altogether. It was a gut-wrenching decision but I couldn't see any other way to find peace and clarity. I encountered major theological differences with my denomination and evangelical Christianity in general, including the way it marginalizes women and LGBT people. Ryan Bell I questioned the problem of evils and God's general silence and inactivity. I sought out more liberal theologies and found them to be the slow death of God. Now I had to face the very real possibility that God does not exist. Would I discover that God was present and involved, or would I discover that the whole web of theological claims I had embraced and helped develop were false? I was feeling small against the beautiful and terrifyingly indifferent sea before me. Then I started to feel grateful. "What are the chances that I would be sitting on this beach right now, looking at this remarkable scene of beauty?" I thought. I was struck again by how unlikely my existence is. Read More
A day after Arkady Babchenko was reported to have been killed, it was revealed that his death was staged by Ukranian security services, apparently to expose a plot to kill him. A full update on this story can be read here. (CNN) Prominent Russian journalist Arkady Babchenko, a critic of Russian actions in Ukraine and Syria, has been shot and killed in Kiev, Ukraine officials said late Tuesday. Ukrainian state news agency Ukrinform said Babchenko, 41, was shot in the back, at his home, and died in an ambulance. It cited his friend and supervisor, Ayder Muzhdabaev, deputy general manager of Ukrainian TV channel ATR. Arkady Babchenko covering unrest in Kiev, Ukraine, on January 22, 2014. Police in Kiev, Ukraine's capital, said Babchenko's wife found him outside their apartment. The Russian Foreign Ministry blamed Ukraine for what it called an "armed assault." In a statement, the Russian ministry said: "The level of physical violence and murders of the media workers in this country (Ukraine) has been growing consistently and the investigations do not result in the punishment of the criminals." Read More
(CNN) A federal grand jury is examining the nation's premier program that provides work for people who are severely disabled, after a series of CNN investigative reports detailing allegations of corruption and cronyism in what sources say could be the biggest fraud case ever in a U.S. government agency. CNN has learned government investigators have issued grand jury subpoenas as they investigate the huge taxpayer-funded program, known as AbilityOne, and specifically its managing agency, SourceAmerica. Along with bid rigging and corruption, grand jury investigators are looking into allegations the program is operating numerous contracts illegally, and not hiring enough disabled people to fill contracts as required by law, as CNN detailed in earlier reports. The AbilityOne and SourceAmerica program dole out hundreds of multimillion-dollar contracts to scores of organizations. To get a contract, 75% of a company's work must be performed by the severely disabled, people who cannot get work elsewhere. Yet, numerous sources have told CNN that SourceAmerica awards contracts unfairly, giving lucrative deals to companies with inside connections. Some SourceAmerica board members have also worked at companies that are awarded big contracts. One such example is outlined in a lawsuit alleging bid-rigging, one of several suits filed against AbilityOne and SourceAmerica in recent years. The suit was filed by Ruben Lopez, owner of Bona Fide Conglomerates, a company that lost a contract bid to clean the federal courthouse in Las Vegas. Another company owned by Lopez had already been cleaning the courthouse for years and had received glowing reviews. Lopez lost the bid, and the contract was given to another company that had an official sitting on the board of directors at SourceAmerica. CNN Investigations Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. Eventually, Lopez settled the Las Vegas contract dispute with SourceAmerica. As part of the settlement, SourceAmerica agreed to treat Lopez's company more fairly, even appointing their top lawyer, Jean Robinson, to work with him. But Lopez said his company was blackballed instead and received no more contracts. Lopez sued SourceAmerica again, claiming it violated the settlement agreement, and that claim is now ongoing in the courts. Lopez became so disgusted with how corrupt the process was that he began working with federal investigators and secretly recorded conversations between himself and Robinson. What is AbilityOne? The AbilityOne program was first created with ambitious, altruistic goals by President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Congress in 1938 to help give jobs to the blind. Those recordings, which CNN obtained independently, are now part of the federal investigation, having been requested under the grand jury subpoena. The recordings are striking, among other reasons, because Robinson compared her company's leadership to the leadership of the mafia. "They're like -- they're like the mafia, I mean, and they pride themselves in it. They don't care," Robinson is heard saying in one part of the recordings. "You know, we are dealing with the mafia here, the old -- the old SourceAmerica mafia," she said in another recording. JUST WATCHED Disabled work program investigated for fraud Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Disabled work program investigated for fraud 07:25 On the recordings, Robinson confides she is nervous about being set up by a board of directors she claims has been fraudulently awarding contracts for decades. "People have been doing it for so many years, and they're not going to stop," she said. "They're just -- it's like an addiction. They're just, so much time has passed, they've been getting away with it for, you know, for what, 25 years, and they don't know how to do it different." Officials at SourceAmerica and AbilityOne repeatedly declined interviews with CNN, issuing statements denying fraud, corruption, cronyism, bid rigging, or illegal activity. The recordings of Robinson, SourceAmerica writes, are "factually inaccurate and untrue." The statement notes that Lopez, head of what it calls a "disgruntled" nonprofit, is suing SourceAmerica. The statement goes on to say "SourceAmerica is continuing to vigorously defend itself against these unfounded allegations."
Atlanta (CNN) In her prime, Julie Mignerey was on her high school swim team. The statuesque woman grew up in a health-conscious household. Her father played professional football, and her mother, she says, was "fit and healthy." Fast-forward to 2018: Mignerey is 48 and married, with four teenagers. Staying fit is harder now. "I felt healthy my entire life until the last few years. As age has crept up on me, I noticed little things -- going up the stairs with a full load of laundry, I'm a little out of breath," she said. "Go hiking with my family, and I'm the last one in line." Julie Mignerey, seen here with her husband, had a hard time keeping up with her family after turning 40. It wasn't a good feeling, the suburban Atlanta mom says. Mignerey tried to walk her dogs more often, get on the treadmill at home and take online yoga classes -- but it wasn't enough. "I needed an inspiration," she said. "I needed someone there who was going to push me and be more accountable for what I was doing." But Mignerey, who works as a real estate manager for a hotel site-selection company, was intimidated by "no pain, no gain" gyms. And she didn't want to spend money on a personal trainer. "There's no way I'm going into a gym where these people are very hardcore," she said. "I'm going to be burnt out after the first time and be discouraged." Getting stronger without getting injured Then, Mignerey discovered a small gym near her home that fit the bill. It specializes in functional fitness with the goal of making everyday tasks easier: being able to walk up a flight of stairs without getting winded or lifting a gallon of water without wrenching your shoulder. "Functional fitness" is the same term used for workouts at many CrossFit gyms, but middle-age clients with creaky knees often find those places too hardcore. Mignerey learns how to properly lift a kettlebell in this low-impact functional fitness class. Mignerey's new gym asked about her health, medical history and personal goals before she started her first class. "They spent a lot of time with me," she said. "They had me do certain exercises and asked, 'How does that feel? Where are you feeling that?' "And that continues today when I'm in their classes," she added. "They will come around and say, 'Now, here's where you should be feeling it. You need to adjust.' " What questions your gym should be asking you That questioning is something all gyms should be doing, says Walt Thompson, president of the American College of Sports Medicine Research and professor of kinesiology and health at Georgia State University. But, Thompson says, gyms with lots of clients often don't take the time to go through consultations. He says there's a strong possibility that new clients can get injured, since many Americans don't have even a basic level of fitness before walking into a gym. Mignerey does a modified plank in class. The class Mignerey takes is low-impact: no jumping or heavy lifting. You move from station to station and use such equipment as ropes or small kettlebells that work different muscle groups. "We have to be able to do a squat that's safe and effective for when you're sitting in a chair, getting into a car, getting off the couch," said Kolleen Losch, a personal trainer and owner of Core Physique in Alpharetta, Georgia. "Those are all functional movements." Mignerey's class has only 12 people, which allows for more one-on-one attention from instructors. Thompson says small classes are something you should seek out if you haven't exercised in a while. In Mignerey's class, most of the participants are over 40, a less-intimidating age group for this woman making a comeback. Safely squatting, lunging, pushing and pulling As a novice, Mignerey learned the basics like how to properly lift a kettlebell. The instructor taught her how to do a modified plank and push-up. Mignerey wasn't shy about asking, "Is this where i should be feeling this?" "Exercise should not be about getting injured. It should not be about bigger, stronger, tougher," Losch said. "It should be about getting you stronger so you can take those baby steps to get your body in the shape that you need to get it in." Losch emphasizes that human bodies don't lose muscle capacity in one day, so clients shouldn't expect to see immediate results, either. "It's going to take a while," she said. Mignerey has gone to class three days a week for the past several months. After about two months, she says, she noticed her aches and pains going away and her posture improving. "I feel like my muscles are stronger, and they support me better." Her trainers also talked with her about adding fresh vegetables and fruits to her meals. Now, she said, "the more I work out, the better I eat, the better sleep I get." "I feel more alert from the time I wake up until I'm ready to go to bed." And she's losing weight. "When I sit down, I don't feel as if I'm as soft everywhere," Mignerey said with a laugh. Gyms are not regulated, so ask questions Mignerey is having a good experience with her gym. But Thompson says consumers should be careful when choosing a fitness program. The professor spent years as an expert witness hearing about injuries resulting from gyms. Thompson says there are no firm numbers related to serious injuries in gyms, due to many cases settling out of court and gyms not being honest about injuries. "I would interview the physical therapist or fitness instructor just like I would interview a plumber, an electrician or a doctor," Thompson said. "I would ask questions like, 'What is your education?' ... 'What is your certification?' 'What kind of experience do you have?' 'Have you worked with somebody like me?' " If the trainer says they've never worked with anyone your age, Thompson says, walk out the door. "Not a single state in this country regulates gyms, which is astonishing," he said. Neither do any states require licensing for personal trainers or fitness instructors, Thompson says. As a result, he says, there are more than 250 ways to earn certifications in the fitness industry. "If we had access to a laptop and a good credit card, we could be certified to be a personal trainer by six different organizations" within minutes, he said. Thompson has teamed up with fitness organizations to create the not-for-profit US Registry of Exercise Professionals . The organization reviews certification programs in the fitness industry and makes sure they meet widely accepted minimum standards. There are more than 148,000 registrants in his registry, and it's growing, but not all trainers are on it. You can also check the Institute for Credentialing Excellence , which looks at all organizations with certification programs, including those in the fitness industry. If you know the name of your fitness instructor's accreditation agency, you can see if it pops up there. Take it slow Even if a gym does its due diligence and asks you about your goals and your medical history, it's ultimately your responsibility to communicate what your injuries and limitations are. "Are there any exercises you feel might hurt you? A good trainer will know how to ask the follow-up questions," Thompson said. A reputable fitness trainer will know how to design a workout for you, give you modifications or request that you see a doctor before you take part in their course, he says. So how do you know if you're overdoing it while exercising? Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "Normal is a burning in the muscle, shakiness and fatigue. What's not normal during an exercise is joint pain," said Sabrina Jo, director of science and research content for the American Council on Exercise "Anything that tends to signal pain directly in the joint or around the joint, that's when you want to back off." If you haven't exercised formally in several years, start off slowly, Thompson said. Don't jump into a high-energy program where you may pull a muscle -- or worse -- in the first 20 minutes.
MICHELE EVE SANDBERG via Getty Images DORAL, Fla. – The United States has never had kings, dukes or even barons, but President Donald Trump’s most loyal subjects have found a way to pay him millions of dollars in tribute anyway. New Jersey Republican congressman Tom MacArthur spent $15,221 to hold a fundraiser at Trump’s golf course in Bedminster, according to a HuffPost analysis of Federal Election Commission filings. Mark Meadows, a North Carolina Republican and a close Trump ally in the House, spent $689 for an office Christmas party at Trump’s hotel a few blocks from the White House. The Illinois-based Family PAC paid $3,183 to Trump’s hotel in Chicago to hold a conference there. And the Republican National Committee this week will likely spend in the neighborhood of a half-million dollars at Trump’s resort in Doral, a few miles west of downtown Miami, for its spring meeting — not counting hundreds or even thousands of dollars RNC members must pay out of their own pockets for airfare, hotel rooms and some meals. The golf resort boasts plenty of ornate chandeliers and baroque fountains — but lies directly beneath the flight path of Miami International Airport’s takeoffs and landings, and is miles from the closest beach. RNC members said they like it anyway, even if it means that some of their own money winds up in the president’s pockets. “Well, we elected a president who’s a businessman,” noted one RNC member on condition of anonymity. “A shrewd businessman.” Cindy Siddoway, the RNC committeewoman from Idaho, said she didn’t know how the RNC settled on Trump’s golf resort but had no objection. “I don’t have a have a problem with it,” she said. “It’s a lovely hotel.” In terms of the optics of it? We’re way past that at this point. GOP official In all, some 70 Republican candidates and parties from Washington state to Washington, D.C., have spent $1.9 million of their donors’ money at the president’s golf courses, hotels and restaurants thus far this election cycle. A portion of every one of these dollars enriches Trump and his family personally. “If you are a politician who, A, has no principles and, B, wants Donald Trump’s endorsement, then of course you will want to host your fundraising event at a Trump property,” said Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, an open-government advocacy group that has successfully sued Trump for access to White House visitor logs. “There’s no better way to appeal to the transactional president, no better way to make a mark with the no-attention-span president.” One GOP official, on condition of anonymity, acknowledged the unsavoriness of funneling donor money to the president and his family but said that ― given Trump’s brazenness about profiting from his presidency — the party had essentially given up. “In terms of the optics of it? We’re way past that at this point,” the official said. Paying The President For years, the entire system of donors with financial interest in particular legislation and regulations giving campaign contributions to candidates who will then craft those same laws and regulations has been derided as corrupt and tantamount to legalized bribery. But candidates must abide by strict rules on what they can and cannot do with that money. Using it to personally enrich themselves is illegal. Trump’s refusal to divest himself of his hotels and golf courses — despite his promises to do so during the campaign — has made it possible for Republican candidates and parties to put money directly into his pocket. “It’s a scary reality when we’re discussing whether the president is susceptible to the influence of people paying him while president, but it is our current reality,” said Jordan Libowitz of the group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, which has sued Trump for violating the constitutional prohibition from taking payments from foreign and domestic government officials. The biggest source of GOP money flowing to Trump’s properties is the Republican National Committee, which essentially went under the control of Trump since his election in 2016. Through its March filing, it has spent $763,335 at Trump properties since Jan. 1, 2017. That includes $106,646 for a dinner at Trump’s Washington hotel in January, $224,858 for a weekend of meetings and fundraisers at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in March and $237,310 in advance payments to Trump’s Doral golf resort for this week’s spring meeting. In past meetings, the RNC would typically pay half of the total cost of the event beforehand, and the remainder afterward. SV DATE/HUFFPOST A view of the Trump resort in Doral, Florida. The next biggest spender at Trump properties is the president’s re-election campaign, which is wholly under the president’s direct control. Thus far it has funneled $551,643 of its donors’ money to his hotels and golf resorts as well as to Trump Tower in Manhattan, where it rents office space and buys food from Trump’s restaurants there. Other high-profile spenders include Great America Committee and America First Action, two Trump-supporting political action committees that occasionally host fundraisers at his Washington, D.C., hotel. But Trump properties also draw smaller committees as well as candidates for House and Senate races, who choose to pay the higher prices that Trump venues often charge compared to nearby competitors. Illinois’ Adam Kinzinger, Kansas’ Kevin Yoder, New York’s Peter King, California’s David Valadao and Florida’s Ted Yoho are all Republican House members who reported spending at Trump properties. Both the National Republican Senatorial Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee have held events at Trump properties, as did the Morris County, New Jersey, Republican Party — reportedly with dire results. After paying Trump’s Bedminster golf course $24,487 and a Fox News host $30,000 to serve as keynote speaker, the fundraiser actually wound up losing money, leaving the local party with shaky finances. SV DATE/HUFFPOST A fountain at one of four golf courses at Trump's Doral resort.
This piece is the second part of a CNN Opinion series, " What it's like to be me ," which explores the personal struggles Americans face at a time of profound social change. Rebecca Cokley is a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, where she works on disability policy. Formerly, she was the executive director of the National Council on Disability and served in the Obama administration in the Administration for Community Living and the Presidential Personnel Office, where she was responsible for outreach to diversity and minority organizations. The views expressed in this commentary are solely hers. (CNN) I was lying on the cold metal table in the operating room in the midst of giving birth to my second child, in what had been a totally normal and uneventful pregnancy, when the anesthesiologist assigned to my C-section suggested that my obstetrician might want to tie my tubes. He didn't ask me. He didn't even acknowledge that I was there, though I was in a ragged state of consciousness. He said, "While you're down there, we are going to go ahead and tie her tubes, right?" At a time when I was most vulnerable, a medical professional thought it was a good suggestion, an acceptable notion, to make an assumption with this level of this importance for me. My doctor, my husband, and I all responded unanimously: "No!" As upsetting as that moment was, it was not at all surprising to be treated as less than fully human. Professionally, I work as an advocate for the disabled. But I also know from 39 years of life as a little person, situations like these are such a clear indication that we aren't seen as whole people. No matter what we do, what we achieve, the nondisabled world will largely always see us as less than, as separate. The delivery room wasn't my first experience with ignorance around disability and family. It wasn't always perfect for me growing up. My high school guidance counselor told me point blank, "Kids like you don't go here, you go to the special school." If it weren't for the teachers, whom I loved, I easily could have fallen into a different path because of how that counselor treated me. I think about that, as I prepare to give birth again in a few months, to a boy who may be of average size. If he is, his mother and two siblings may always be "different" in a way that he is not. Everyone's "normal" is their own: Share your story of how you use being different to make a difference in your own life or others' with #ToBeMe or text/WhatsApp us on +1-347-322-0415 When he comes, I'll be having another C-section. Little people can only deliver that way, as our pelvic area is not large enough to deliver vaginally, so I've always had an anesthesiologist present for the entire procedure. General anesthesia is hard on those of us with dwarfism as well, because of how our faces are shaped and complexities in our airways, and spinal anesthesia, including epidurals, can also be hard depending on any spinal issues. For a long time the only option was putting us completely out, as was done with my mom during my delivery. With my last delivery, I was already in a bad place with this anesthesiologist -- who was in a position of medical authority (even though he wasn't ultimately in control of my treatment) and somehow thought my right to have more children was his business. I had asked him to review the notes from my first C-section and my MRIs to make sure he felt confident he could do the job. But he failed, because the spinal block wore off halfway through the surgery and he had to help to determine alternate means of sedation -- which resulted in him giving me a low level of general anesthesia to complete the procedure. I don't know for sure why he suggested I be sterilized, but I can only assume that he thought I should be medically prevented from having more kids because, like my children Jackson and Kaya, I was born with dwarfism. I've asked multiple nondisabled friends who have had the same anesthesiologist and none reported him making any remarks indicating he felt the same way about their right to bear children. While I grew up in the Bay Area, I now live in Washington, D.C., with my husband and kids. Professionally and personally, being a little person is central to who I am, but it's also one among many ways that I see and make sense of the world. For better and for worse, being different is hugely significant in my life, individually and with my family. And I think we should be more open with all kids about how being different can be a good thing, an important thing. Part of the legacy of the landmark 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act is that it's easier for people with disabilities to become parents. It's natural to assume that once people with disabilities have remedies for discrimination and greater access to society, they'll do exactly what a lot of nondisabled people do: get married and have kids. This was always a logical conclusion to me, as both my parents were little people (which is rare -- 80% of people with dwarfism are the only person in their families with it). Growing up with a disability My parents met in 1970 at a convention of Little People of America, an organization founded by actor Billy Barty in 1957 to provide support and information to people with dwarfism and their families. There are chapters around the world , affiliates internationally, and annual conventions that bring together around 2,000 people in different cities every year. My dad ran a Center for Independent Living for people with disabilities and my mom ran a disabled student center at a local community college, so I grew up in the Bay Area surrounded by people with all different types of disabilities. I also grew up in an environment where expectations of me were set high, by my family and by a strong network of supporters and allies. My mom went back to school for her bachelor's and master's degrees when I was around 8 or 9, as a re-entry student at the College of San Mateo and the College of Notre Dame, respectively. Rebecca and Patrick Cokley with their two kids I was a typical presence with her on campus, sitting in the back taking notes along with the other students (I was always nerdy). I remember getting in long discussions with one of the professors, who was a nun, about Kevin Smith's latest film, "Dogma," and her asking me to write a paper on it while I was still in junior high school. It took a long time for me to realize that the experiences I had growing up, becoming an adult, and starting my own family were not always the norm -- and that the work of achieving acceptance for those with disabilities was far from over. All my life I wanted to work in civil rights, and found myself thinking of being a civil rights lawyer from an early age. I think having parents who were so civically engaged was a key piece of this, as was growing up in the San Francisco Bay Area during the onset of the AIDS epidemic. I remember that in the early days when it was still stigmatized as the "gay cancer," my parents and I attended so many funerals. And at so many of them we were the only people there, minus a friend or two. I asked my mom why we had to go (my 6 year old brain was much more focused on getting to the mall to go ice skating at the time) and I remember my mom telling me, "We're here because no one deserves to have no one stand for them. They're no different from us. We are here for the reason that someday, if something like this happens to our community, we'd hope they would be here for us." And I think in so many ways, that comment, while in passing, became my true north. 'Mom, I think I want to be a clown' When I was 10, my dad passed away in his sleep after confronting health issues for years and using a wheelchair most of my life after a fall. Soon after, my mom took me to the Ringling Brothers circus. We were in the parking lot leaving the Cow Palace when I turned to my mom and said the seven words she had feared her entire life. "Mom, I think I want to be clown." She slammed on the brakes so hard I thought my head would hit the dashboard. "What?" she asked. "Yeah, I think I want to be a clown." We rode home in silence. I didn't realize at the time, but this was a huge crisis of faith for her. All I had ever talked about at that point was fighting injustice and here I was telling her I wanted to take on a role that focused on little people not being taken seriously. I later learned that she broke down in tears with a group of fellow graduate students, telling them she had failed as a parent. A few weeks later, I told her I only wanted to be a clown because clowns traveled the world, and that I had returned to my senses and decided to be a civil rights attorney again. It was an important lesson in the importance of having high expectations and being flexible that would serve me repeatedly throughout my career and as a mom. Because of my passion for civil rights, my parents introduced me at a young age to Paul Steven Miller , an up-and-coming attorney and little person who worked in Los Angeles. Miller went on to be the first little person to work in the White House, under President Clinton, and when he found out my love of reading, would routinely send me case briefs to read "for fun." My mom and dad thought it was important that I knew people like me doing the work I wanted to do. I got to return the favor in 2007, when I recruited my mentor Miller for the Barack Obama campaign and ended up following in his footsteps by taking a job at the White House in 2010. Taking this path was important to me -- and to my family as well. Rebecca Cokley with her mom. When it came time to go to college, I started out at the same school where my mom had gone. I studied in London during my sophomore year of high school. It was an incredible experience. Not only for all the amazing things that London offered, but also because manners often trumped the notion of treating disabled people in public like a sideshow. I didn't have to worry about tourists taking photos of me, or having "midget midget" shouted at me in a bar, as had happened to me in the United States. Returning home, I accepted a full scholarship to the University of Santa Cruz, where I decided to go into political science and study with professors like Wendy Mink, Peter Euben, and Angela Davis. My first two jobs after college really shaped my life. One was an internship with my local member of Congress, Rep. Tom Lantos , the only member of the House of Representatives who was a Holocaust survivor. He and his staff were hugely supportive of my passion for civil rights and it managed to keep my feet in the area of politics while I also worked at my second job -- at Victoria's Secret. I started as a part-time holiday hire and was quickly promoted to credit and bra specialist lead before becoming a co-manager. You may wonder what politics and lingerie have in common. I always sum it up as, "You have to make someone want something they don't need and want to pay too much for it." My boss at Victoria's Secret had grown up next door to a family of little people who had offered her stability in a childhood that had little, so it was nice to not have to go into a job where I'd have to prove myself just as capable as a nondisabled person. I think being a person with a physical disability working at the most image conscious company in the world actually made me more approachable to a lot of customers and also made me want to help folks who may have felt nervous or uncomfortable in the store. I think the funniest thing was how customers would describe me when checking out. They'd actively fumble their words and body around trying to describe me without saying I was a little person. "Ummmmm, the girl in the black suit." (We all wore black suits). "Well, she's petite." (There were a number of us who were.) My sales associates were comfortable with me being a little person but the customers were very concerned about being rude or just not knowing what to say in general. The experience did make me more conscious about my safety, because I had a few strange customers who would follow me around in the store or who would act like they were "fascinated" with me. One couple in particular went too far and made a point of repeatedly telling me, "We could pick you up and walk out with you. We'd take you home and make you a button in our mattress. No one could physically stop us." I think as a little person you tend to get a heightened "spidey sense" because of how people treat you, and that experience definitely set mine off. But on the whole my customers were kind and thankful for my help. Doing political and public policy work was still my dream, though, and in 2004, I moved to Washington to take a job working in education policy. A mentor of mine persuaded me to come and work for the National Collaborative on Workforce and Disability/Youth . I learned a ton working there, and it was there that I also met my amazing husband, Patrick. He says he noticed me right away -- cautioning himself not to come off as creepy by "staring at the new girl." I have no memory of this. Building a family Today, our family exists at multiple crossroads. Patrick is average height and African-American. I'm a little person. Our two kids are both little people. My husband has a vision impairment, so I'm the driver in the family, but, usually, new average-height people we meet assume he's the driver. Like many D.C. couples, we met at work. Rebbeca Hare and Patrick Cokley were married at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, Columbia. When having our own children, it was interesting how our friends reacted to our news. Our LP (that's how those of us in the community refer to "little people") friends all automatically assumed the baby would be a little person; we see it as a marker of cultural pride. Our average height friends didn't ask me about whether the baby would be LP or average height -- they'd ask Patrick, and he would typically respond that he didn't care either way. I worked at the White House when I was pregnant and had our first child, Jackson. To him, it was routine to head back to the office with me after pickup so I could keep working. In Barack Obama's White House, it never felt weird or out-of-place being the mother of African-American kids with disabilities who were on a first-name basis with senior White House officials. To quote the boss himself, "I believe that this country succeeds when everyone gets a fair shot, when everyone does their fair share, when everyone plays by the same rules." And those are really the values that we stress as we're raising Jackson and his younger sister, Kaya. At age 6, Jackson's awareness of the world is growing. One day, he came home from kindergarten and said, "Mom, you're white, Dad's black, and I'm peach." His dad turned around and said "Peach? You're black." Jackson pointed to his arm, shook his head, and said "Peach!" This made us realize that we needed to discuss our kids and their heritage much more than we had been. We've purposely stayed in the D.C. area because there is a thriving chapter of Little People of America here and I want my children to grow up with a strong tie to that community. It's important for them to have friends who are other LPs, have teen and young adult LPs to look up to, and to know LP adults. Since we're raising children who also identify as African-American, it is imperative to Patrick and me that they have strong people in the black community to look up to and relate to. We are blessed with a cadre of aunties and uncles and cousins who are biological and chosen family members from my husband's childhood, his time at Howard University, and our various circles of friends. As a white woman, I have to be aware that my daughter in particular is going to have questions that I can't -- and in some cases, shouldn't -- be the one to answer. As a professional advocate, I've spent the last few years working on issues tied to police killings of African-Americans with disabilities. Unarmed people of color whose names you may know because their deaths involved the police -- Eric Garner , Natasha McKinnon, Sandra Bland -- were also all people with disabilities, many of whom disclosed their disabilities to law enforcement and still died. Rebecca Cokley and President Obama pose for a snapshot. Raising two African-American children with disabilities, I understand that some of the very qualities that endear them to people now -- their curiosity, their feeling that they've never met a stranger, their trust in the world -- could be the very same things that could potentially put them in danger. So we have to talk about these things, because while the bubble of our home provides safety and security, the outside world is a different place. My children have grown up knowing chosen family members who have been assaulted by law enforcement. It broke my heart to have to talk to my son about this, but we also couldn't keep it from him. Parenthood and activism: our forms of protest in the world When the anesthesiologist suggested that my doctor sterilize me, what I heard was someone with medical authority basically telling another person with medical authority that I shouldn't be having any more children. I was certainly angry, but not surprised. Many of us in the disability community know this feeling all too well . Whether it's forced sterilization, experimentation, eugenics, or treatments to keep us small and manageable, removing our right to control our bodies, our personhood, has been common practice by the "well-meaning" nondisabled public for centuries. No amount of education, of mentors, or of amazingly supportive workplaces would have prepared me for this level of discrimination. Yet this is what many disabled people encounter as parents. Under the law in dozens of states, children can be removed from their homes based solely on a parent's disability. In my work as an advocate, I've spoken with a dyslexic mom who lost her kids when pharmacists thought she would misread instructions and overmedicate them, and a father who lost his kids when a ball rolled into the street and he wheeled his chair to the curb, always in control, to help the kid retrieve it and a neighbor saw. If not denied personhood outright, we tend to get our personhood policed by rhetoric and language. Nondisabled people routinely refer to us using euphemisms like "special needs," "differently abled," or, in a pun on language from the past, "handi-capable." These aren't words anyone like me (meaning disabled) came up with -- they were defined by society because the concept of "disability" makes nondisabled people feel uncomfortable. It's a reminder that yes, we are different. Rebecca and Patrick Cokley and their kids in their Washington neighborhood. But as I like to remind people, disability is written into civil rights laws, so by teaching young people that "disability" is something to be ashamed of -- say, by implying that someone shouldn't have more children because of one -- society is, in fact, disconnecting them from their civil rights. We didn't celebrate the 27th anniversary of the "Americans with Special Needs Act" this summer, after all. The disability community continues to struggle with media and interest-group narratives that frame us as victims or takers. The ongoing health care fight by the disability-rights group ADAPT -- with its images of Americans in wheelchairs protesting proposed cuts to Medicaid and being removed by Capitol Police -- and others was a powerful moment in our movement. And while the public reacted with outrage at disabled people being abused by law enforcement, I have to wonder if nondisabled people really knew just what the protesters with disabilities, including our friend Steph Woodward, whose image became synonymous with this activism for a time, were really fighting for. They were fighting for their very lives, their right to determine where they wanted to live -- in this case, in their communities rather than being forcibly institutionalized in nursing homes. They are strong, but were still fighting and being framed as victims We talk about this a lot in our home, about the issues affecting the intersecting oppressions we encounter, whether ableism, racism or sexism. It's impossible not to -- and we would be irresponsible if we didn't. We also spend a lot of time talking to my kids about consent. People often act as though disabled people don't have a right to bodily autonomy. When I attended the women's march in D.C. in January, I was repeatedly grabbed and manhandled by women who wanted to know where was my mommy and why didn't I know better than to wander away from her. They all looked shocked when I responded, "I am the mommy," but not a single one apologized to me. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook As little people, we also deal with the public taking photos and videos of us without our consent. I want my children to understand how to navigate the world safely but at the same time feel like they can speak up when someone is treating them wrong or in a way that makes them uncomfortable. Patrick and I are now expecting our third child. As of yet, we don't know if he will be a little person or an average height child, though so far, it looks like he will be the latter. But we don't care either way. What matters to us, as we anticipate the joy and sleepless nights ahead, is that our family is growing again. Everyone's "normal" is their own: Share your story of how you use being different to make a difference in your own life or others' with #ToBeMe or text/WhatsApp us on +1-347-322-0415
Today might be about Prince Harry and Meghan Markle getting married, but Princess Charlotte, Prince George and the other bridesmaids and page boys have also stolen our hearts at the royal wedding. As one of the couple’s bridesmaids, Princess Charlotte looked adorable as she entered in a white dress with floral headband. Meanwhile her big brother, Prince George, looked oh-so-smart in navy as page boy for the ceremony. But we’re particulalry loving the sheer joy on the face of one of Jessica Mulroney’s twins carrying Meghan’s train. Extra cuteness points for that missing tooth. [READ MORE: HuffPost UK’s Royal Wedding Live Blog]
TORONTO — Canada Goose is flocking to China with a plan to open two stores in Beijing and Hong Kong, e-commerce operations in partnership with Alibaba Group and a regional head office in Shanghai. The Toronto-based luxury retailer that is known for its high-end parkas says the stores and e-commerce operation will launch this fall. Canada Goose President and Chief Executive Officer Dani Reiss says the company is expanding in the country because it has seen demand from Chinese consumers for years. Watch: PETA urges Drake to ditch Canada Goose (story continues below) The e-commerce operations will be launched in conjunction with Alibaba Group's online business-to-consumer platform. It will open bricks-and-mortar locations in Beijing and Hong Kong. Canada Goose already has flagship stores in Toronto, Calgary, New York, London, Tokyo, Chicago and Boston.
(CNN) "John McCain: For Whom the Bell Tolls" offers a definitive portrait of an extraordinary life, boasting extensive access to its subject as well practically as every political luminary to pass through his orbit, including three former presidents. Keenly aware that he's nearing the end, McCain and director Peter Kunhardt have left a guide to a figure described, for good or ill, as being the most influential non-president of the last half-century. The most striking aspect of this HBO production (whose subtitle comes from McCain's favorite book, the Ernest Hemingway novel, and arrives along with a new memoir) is McCain's serenity as he reflects on what he describes as "an honorable life," for which he expresses gratitude. "I love life, and I want to stay around forever," he says. "But I also feel that there's a great honor that you can die with." Of course, the signature period in McCain's early biography -- his time as a prisoner of war during Vietnam -- hardly smacks of good fortune, including the 2 ½ years that he spent in solitary confinement, being subjected to abuse and torture. Very little of this is new to those who have followed McCain, also profiled in a recent "Frontline" documentary. But it's McCain's own memories, coupled with the first-person testimonials, which elevate this to a higher level. Read More
Kim Kardashian met with President Donald Trump at the White House on Wednesday to discuss prison reform and sentencing, according to Trump. A number of news outlets reported on Wednesday that the two reality TV stars would meet, then Trump confirmed it on his Twitter account. Trump tweeted a picture taken in the Oval Office with Kardashian, who has been advocating for criminal justice reform for the last year. “Great meeting with [Kim Kardashian] today, talked about prison reform and sentencing,” Trump announced on Twitter. Great meeting with @KimKardashian today, talked about prison reform and sentencing. pic.twitter.com/uOy4UJ41JF — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 Kardashian, who has built an empire around her family’s reality show, has recently been more engaged in politics. The 37-year-old businesswoman’s interest in criminal justice seems to have been sparked by a number of high-profile cases of controversial sentences against women. Last year, Kardashian enlisted her legal team to aid in an effort to free Cyntoia Brown. Brown, now 30, was convicted of the 2004 murder of a 43-year-old man who she claimed raped her after she was sex-trafficked at 16 years old. The case elicited widespread outrage when Brown was given a life sentence without eligibility for parole for 51 years. “The system has failed,” Kardashian tweeted in November. “It’s heartbreaking to see a young girl sex trafficked then when she has the courage to fight back is jailed for life! We have to do better & do what’s right. I’ve called my attorneys yesterday to see what can be done to fix this.” Kardashian has also advocated for Alice Marie Johnson, a great-grandmother who is serving a life sentence for a first-time, nonviolent drug offense. “Happy Birthday Alice Marie Johnson,” Kardashian tweeted on Wednesday. “Today is for you.” Happy Birthday Alice Marie Johnson. Today is for you 🙏🏼✨ — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 30, 2018 Johnson was sentenced in 1996 for helping in a multimillion-dollar cocaine ring, something Johnson said she became involved with after she lost her job and was unable to support her family. In an op-ed titled “Why Kim Kardashian Thinks I Should Be Released From Prison” for CNN, Johnson wrote that her life “began to spiral out of control” after the loss of her son and her divorce. Kardashian has pushed for months on social media for Johnson to receive clemency. “I made the biggest mistake of my life to make ends meet and got involved with people selling drugs,” Johnson wrote in her CNN piece. “This was a road I never dreamed of venturing down. I became what is called a telephone mule, passing messages between the distributors and sellers. I participated in a drug conspiracy, and I was wrong.” After meeting with Trump, Kardashian posted her thoughts about Johnson’s future on Twitter: We are optimistic about Ms. Johnson’s future and hopeful that she —and so many like her—will get a second chance at life. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 31, 2018 I would like to thank President Trump for his time this afternoon. It is our hope that the President will grant clemency to Ms. Alice Marie Johnson who is serving a life sentence for a first-time, non-violent drug offense. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) May 31, 2018 Trump’s meeting with Kardashian incited a debate on social media on why a reality star was the person to advocate for prison reform at the White House. Ava DuVernay, who directed “13th,” a 2016 documentary on mass incarceration, addressed the meeting in a series of tweets along with clips from her film. “I’m down for anyone who can make positive change in a positive way to give it a try. Notes for Kim. Part 1,” DuVernay tweeted.
Americans were a bit taken aback when Kim Kardashian visited President Donald Trump at the White House on Wednesday to plead for a pardon for Alice Marie Johnson, a great-grandmother who’s serving a life sentence for a nonviolent drug conviction. “I know some of you were thinking, ‘I can’t believe this reality show moron is in the Oval Office,’” Trevor Noah said on “The Daily Show” on Thursday. “But don’t forget he was elected by the American people.” Noah said he never saw coming Trump’s follow-up move: pardoning Dinesh D’Souza, a “right-wing troll” and “brown Grand Wizard” who pleaded guilty to campaign finance violations and who’s “known for saying things like, ‘Obama is a gay Muslim’ and ‘Black people are thugs.’” Next time Kardashian lobbies to have Johnson pardoned, Noah has the answer: Have her write “racist Obama tweets and she’ll be out in a week.”
When you think of magnesium, what probably springs to mind are eye twitches and muscle cramps, or perhaps a high school science experiment. But this mineral is actually vital for many processes in the body. Thankfully, we can obtain magnesium through our diets, specifically by eating loads of plant foods -- including dark chocolate. Why do I need magnesium? "Magnesium is a mineral that our bodies rely on to feel fit, healthy and full of vitality," nutritionist Fiona Tuck told HuffPost Australia. "This mineral is an important one, being that it is a co-factor for hundreds of enzyme reactions within the body. These enzymes are vital for a variety of important processes such as the conversion of energy from carbohydrates, fats and protein, not to mention healthy DNA synthesis, blood sugar balance, bone health and a calm nervous system." Magnesium is also required for "formation of bones, muscle contractions and blood pressure regulation", accredited practising dietitian Alexandra Parker explained. "Magnesium is also thought to play a role in sleep by improving our sleep quality. On average, men require around 400mg of magnesium per day and women need around 300mg per day." What happens when I'm magnesium deficient? According to accredited practising dietitian Anna Debenham, magnesium deficiency is not overly common in otherwise healthy people. "In the short-term, low intakes of magnesium won't actually result in any noticeable symptoms as our kidneys conserve magnesium when intakes are low," Debenham told HuffPost Australia. "However, low intakes over extended periods can lead you to become deficient." When this occurs, we can experience an array of negative symptoms, mostly to do with energy levels. "Magnesium is involved in helping to regulate calcium, vitamin D, blood sugar and hormonal balance, so there is little surprise to learn that low magnesium levels can lead to chronic fatigue-type symptoms, low mood, anxiety, eye tics, insomnia, high blood pressure, muscle cramps (which can be due to low calcium too) and a poor tolerance to dealing with stress," Tuck said. Symptoms of magnesium deficiency include: Loss of appetite Nausea Vomiting Fatigue Weakness Abnormal heart rhythms Numbness or tingling Muscle contractions and cramps "When our magnesium levels are low, we can start craving stimulants such as coffee to boost our energy, or chocolate which is a natural source of magnesium (but not the sickly sweet milk chocolate commonly found in the confectionery aisle)." Which foods contain magnesium? "Magnesium is found in a variety of foods, but the best sources tend to be green leafy vegetables, raw cacao, nuts and seeds," Tuck said. "Include magnesium-rich foods at every meal to help boost magnesium. Aim to include at least two servings of vegetables with every meal and a couple of pieces of fruit daily. Reduce sugar, alcohol and processed foods to help up your magnesium intake." Another reason to eat (and drink) your greens. Foods which contain magnesium: Green leafy vegetables (e.g. spinach and kale) Fruit (figs, avocado, banana and raspberries) Nuts and seeds Legumes (black beans, chickpeas and kidney beans) Vegetables (peas, broccoli, cabbage, green beans, artichokes, asparagus, brussels sprouts) Seafood (salmon, mackerel, tuna) Whole grains (brown rice and oats) Raw cacao Dark Chocolate Tofu Baked beans Chlorella powder How can I test if I'm magnesium deficient? While you can get magnesium levels tested via a blood test, this isn't always a reliable method. "If your doctor suspects that your magnesium level is too low, they may order a serum magnesium test. However, this has not been properly validated as a reliable indicator of body magnesium status," Parker explained. "Assessing magnesium status is difficult because most magnesium is inside cells or in bones." In any case, if you are in doubt over your magnesium levels, see a qualified healthcare practitioner who can look at possible signs and symptoms of magnesium deficiency and trigger factors, such as high stress levels or a diet low in magnesium. "Combined with pathology tests, this can give a better overall picture of whether you need more magnesium," Tuck said. People who have gastrointestinal diseases, type 2 diabetes, alcohol dependence and older adults have a higher risk of magnesium deficiency. Should I take magnesium supplements? As with most supplements, it's best to obtain important vitamins and minerals through your diet. "If you want to maximise your health, you can't go past a balanced diet. Loading up on plenty of plant foods is the simplest way to get magnesium into your diet," Debenham said. "You can, however, increase your magnesium intake by taking supplements, and this may be beneficial for some people. It is best to talk with your doctor or dietitian about magnesium supplementing, as excessive supplementation can lead to diarrhoea and stomach upsets." Magnesium supplements can also be poorly absorbed and thus work better for some people than others, Tuck explained. "Those with poor gut function or malabsorption issues may be better to start with a topical magnesium spray. This is absorbed transdermally through the skin and can be used daily," Tuck said. "For those people in need of a higher intake of magnesium, they may do better with a magnesium powder supplement and drink it in liquid form." Click below to subscribe to the Refresh podcast by HuffPost Australia on iTunes. ALSO ON HUFFPOST AUSTRALIA
Even as 14 elections were being held across 10 states across India -- including in Uttar Pradesh's Kairana and Maharashtra's Palghar and Bhandara-Gondiya -- faulty EVM's were reported from across the country, with the Electio Commission blaming the heat wave for the ordeal. However, the Opposition parties have claimed that the EVMs had been tampered with. PTI reported that faulty EVMs were reported from both Kairana and Noorpur in UP. Other reports said that in Palghar and Bhandara-Gondiya too some EVMs were not working. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav called conspiracy, saying that while people had were waiting in long lines in the heat, this could be a way to stop them from casting their votes. हज़ारों EVM में ख़राबी की शिकायतें आ रही हैं. किसान, मज़दूर, महिलाएँ व नौजवान भरी धूप में अपनी बारी के इंतज़ार में भूखे-प्यासे खड़े हैं. ये तकनीकी ख़राबी है या चुनाव प्रबंधन की विफलता या फिर जनता को मताधिकार से वंचित करने की साज़िश. इस तरह से तो लोकतंत्र की बुनियाद ही हिल जायेगी. — Akhilesh Yadav (@yadavakhilesh) May 28, 2018 Tabassum Hasan, RLD candidate from Kairana also complained saying she had been receiving reports of EVMs not functioning since morning. She also blamed the administration saying this was a ploy to favour one party. I've been continuously receiving complaints. They didn't expect so many ppl to come out to vote in Ramzan.Initial strategy was to hold elections in Ramzan so that ppl won't vote: Tabassum Hasan, RLD candidate for #Kairana Lok Sabha seat after writing to EC over faulty EVMs&VVPATs pic.twitter.com/0JjnN4LMrC — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) May 28, 2018 Hasan has written to the Election Commission complaining about the faulty EVMs. Meanwhile in Maharashtra's Bhandara–Gondiya voting had to be temporarily suspended because the EVMs had stopped working. In Palghar the returning officer said that there was a bit of panic earlier in the day over EVMs, but now it had been sorted. Encountered problems & panic in the initial hours. Nothing has happened after 12 pm. The new machines are working properly. We are in consultation with Central Election Commission about extension of voting time: Dr Prashant Narnaware, Returning Officer on #Palghar by-poll pic.twitter.com/GKp9fcWOfR — ANI (@ANI) May 28, 2018 News18 quoted sources from the Election Commission as saying that the rising temperatures across the country may have caused the sensors in the voting machines to become non-functional and that repairs were being carried. Congress leader Praful Patel, however, questioned the explanation for the faulty EVMs. EVMs malfunctioning in Bhandara-Gondiya poll. In many big European nations, election commissions have rejected the EVMs and gone back to ballot paper system. SP leader Akhilesh Yadav ji just called me up,he also said 300 EVMs not working in Kairana bypoll: Praful Patel,NCP pic.twitter.com/M8mOsOHNIt — ANI (@ANI) May 28, 2018
Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game The U.S. Women's National Soccer Team celebrates after winning the Women's World Cup on Sunday, July 5, in Vancouver, Canada. The United States defeated Japan with a final score of 5-2. Click through the gallery to see tournament highlights: Hide Caption 1 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Alex Morgan of the United States celebrates the impressive win. Hide Caption 2 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Megan Rapinoe of the United States and Homare Sawa of Japan fight for the ball. Hide Caption 3 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan goalkeeper Ayumi Kaihori allows a third goal to United States' Carli Lloyd during the first half. Hide Caption 4 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japanese football fans react to a U.S. goal at a public screening of the game in Tokyo. Hide Caption 5 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. goalkeeper Hope Solo watches as American Julie Johnston and Homare Sawa of Japan battle for a header during the second half. Hide Caption 6 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Alex Morgan of the United States controls the ball in the second half. Hide Caption 7 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Hope Solo allows a goal during the second half. Hide Caption 8 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan's Yuki Ogimi of Japan scores a goal during the first half. Hide Caption 9 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Homare Sawa vies with Abby Wambach. Hide Caption 10 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England celebrates a penalty kick goal against Germany during extra time at the Women's World Cup soccer third-place match in Edmonton, Alberta, on Saturday, July 4. England defeated Germany with a final score of 1-0. Hide Caption 11 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England's Katie Chapman knocks down Germany's Sara Dabritz during the second half of the Women's World Cup soccer third-place match on Saturday. Hide Caption 12 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England goalkeeper Karen Bardsley makes a save against Germany during second-half action on Saturday, July 4. Hide Caption 13 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japanese players celebrate their first-half goal against England during a Women's World Cup semifinal on Wednesday, July 1. Japan, the defending World Cup champions, won 2-1 after a late-minute own goal by England's Laura Bassett. Hide Caption 14 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England's Josanne Potter, right, consoles Bassett after the whistle. Hide Caption 15 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Yuki Ogimi of Japan battles through two England defenders. Hide Caption 16 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England's Katie Chapman, center, congratulates Fara Williams after Williams tied the score on a penalty kick. Both teams traded penalty-kick goals before Bassett's own goal. Hide Caption 17 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Jill Scott of England and Azusa Iwashimizu of Japan slide in for the ball. Hide Caption 18 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game English goalkeeper Karen Bardsley hangs from the crossbar. Hide Caption 19 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan's Nahomi Kawasumi shields Chapman during the first half. Hide Caption 20 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game American Kelley O'Hara, center in white, celebrates after scoring a goal against Germany on Tuesday, June 30. The goal, late in the second half, clinched a 2-0 semifinal victory for the Americans. They will now get a rematch against Japan, the team that defeated them in the 2011 World Cup final. Hide Caption 21 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. midfielder Tobin Heath gets knocked over by Germany's Tabea Kemme. Hide Caption 22 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany's Alexandra Popp, left, clashed heads with American Morgan Brian early in the match. Both players received treatment and returned to action. Hide Caption 23 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game German forward Celia Sasic reacts after missing a penalty kick early in the second half. It would have given Germany a 1-0 lead. Hide Caption 24 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Alex Morgan of the United States is defended by Germany's Annike Krahn, left, and Lena Goessling. Hide Caption 25 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England players celebrate a goal during their 2-1 victory over Canada in the Women's World Cup on Saturday, June 27. The victory in Vancouver, British Columbia, gave England its first-ever trip to the semifinals. Hide Caption 26 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Canada's Christine Sinclair shoots the ball past English goalkeeper Karen Bardsley. Hide Caption 27 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England's Jodie Taylor, left, celebrates her goal against Canada with teammate Jill Scott. Hide Caption 28 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japanese players celebrate a goal scored by Mana Iwabuchi (No. 16) during a match against Australia on June 27. It was the only goal scored in the quarterfinal match, which was played in Edmonton, Alberta. Hide Caption 29 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Kyah Simon of Australia challenges Azusa Iwashimizu of Japan. Hide Caption 30 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Australia's Caitlin Foord, left, and Lisa De Vanna try to keep the ball from Japan's Aya Miyama. Hide Caption 31 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Samantha Kerr of Australia flies in the air as she is fouled by Iwashimizu. Hide Caption 32 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. defender Meghan Klingenberg stands over China's Wang Lisi during a match in Ottawa on Friday, June 26. The United States won 1-0 to advance to the semifinals. Hide Caption 33 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game China's Lou Jiahui collides with U.S. defender Julie Johnston. Hide Caption 34 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. midfielder Tobin Heath fights for the ball with China's Pang Fengyue. Hide Caption 35 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. forward Amy Rodriguez kicks the ball during the China match. Hide Caption 36 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Johnston and China's Wang Shuang vie for the ball during the second half. Hide Caption 37 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany's Simone Laudehr, right, is challenged by Jessica Houara of France during a quarterfinal match in Montreal on June 26. Germany advanced after winning a penalty shootout. Hide Caption 38 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany's Nadine Angerer allows a goal on a penalty kick. Hide Caption 39 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game France's Claire Lavogez is consoled by head coach Philippe Bergeroo after she missed her penalty in the shootout. Hide Caption 40 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game French midfielder Claire Lavogez slides in on German midfielder Tabea Kemme. Hide Caption 41 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game France's Jessica Houara, right, trips Alexandra Popp. Hide Caption 42 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan goalkeeper Ayumi Kaihori dives for a save during a round-of-16 match in Vancouver on Tuesday, June 23. Japan defeated the Netherlands 2-1 to advance to the quarterfinals of the tournament. Hide Caption 43 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Dutch player Desiree van Lunteren heads the ball during the match against Japan. Hide Caption 44 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan's Azusa Iwashimizu knocks the ball away from Lieke Martens. Hide Caption 45 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan's Aya Sameshima shoots over the bar. Hide Caption 46 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. midfielder Megan Rapinoe is fouled by Colombia defender Angela Clavijo during a round-of-16 match in Edmonton on Monday, June 22. The foul was in the box, leading to a penalty that Carli Lloyd converted into a goal. The United States won the match 2-0 to advance to the quarterfinals. Hide Caption 47 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Lloyd goes for the ball between Colombia's Stefany Castano, left, and Natalia Gaitan. Hide Caption 48 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. forward Abby Wambach kicks the ball away from goalkeeper Catalina Perez. Wambach was called offside on the play. Hide Caption 49 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Clavijo stretches for the ball in front of U.S. midfielder Lauren Holiday. Hide Caption 50 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway's Ada Hegerberg heads the ball during a round-of-16 match against England on June 22. England trailed 1-0 but came back to win 2-1 in Ottawa. Hide Caption 51 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway forward Isabell Herlovsen, center, fights for the ball against England's Karen Carney, left. Hide Caption 52 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England's Katie Chapman competes with Norway's Solveig Gulbrandsen. Hide Caption 53 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England's Laura Bassett, left, chases Herlovsen in the second half. Hide Caption 54 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Hegerberg vies for the ball with Lucy Bronze, left. Hide Caption 55 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game From left, Canada's Ashley Lawrence, Christine Sinclair, Josee Belanger and Rhian Wilkinson celebrate Belanger's goal against Switzerland on Sunday, June 21. Canada won the round-of-16 match 1-0 in Vancouver. Hide Caption 56 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Canada's Melissa Tancredi tries to get a shot past Swiss goalkeeper Gaelle Thalmann. Hide Caption 57 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Thalmann watches a shot deflect off the goal frame. Hide Caption 58 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Switzerland's Ana Maria Crnogorcevic and Canada's Allysha Chapman collide during the first half. Hide Caption 59 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Marie Laure Delie of France kicks the ball in front of Cho So-hyun of South Korea during a round-of-16 match June 21 in Montreal. France won 3-0. Hide Caption 60 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game South Korean goalkeeper Kim Jung-mi makes a save against France's Amandine Henry during the first half. Hide Caption 61 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game France's Eugenie Le Sommer celebrates a goal by teammate Marie-Laure Delie. Hide Caption 62 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game French midfielder Elodie Thomis leaps over South Korea defender Lee Eun-mi. Hide Caption 63 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Australia's Laura Alleway, right, defends against Brazil midfielder Formiga during a match June 21 in Moncton, New Brunswick. Australia upset Brazil 1-0 to advance to the quarterfinals. Hide Caption 64 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Fabiana of Brazil was given a yellow card after tripping Caitlin Foord. Hide Caption 65 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Brazil's Marta slides into Elise Kellond-Knight. Hide Caption 66 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Fabiana heads the ball above Australia's Katrina Gorry. Hide Caption 67 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Chinese goalkeeper Wang Fei saves a shot during a round-of-16 match against Cameroon on Saturday, June 20. China defeated Cameroon 1-0 in Edmonton. Hide Caption 68 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Cameroon goalkeeper Annette Ngo Ndom saves a shot on goal. Hide Caption 69 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game China's Wu Haiyan stops the ball. Hide Caption 70 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Cameroon's Jeannette Yango and China's Wang Shanshan compete for a header. Hide Caption 71 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany's Saskia Bartusiak, left, collides with Sweden's Sofia Jakobsson during a round-of-16 match in Ottawa on June 20. Germany won 4-1 to advance to the quarterfinals. Hide Caption 72 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game German forward Celia Sasic collides into Swedish goalkeeper Hedvig Lindahl. Hide Caption 73 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany's Anja Mittag takes a shot past Linda Sembrant. Hide Caption 74 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game German goalkeeper Nadine Angerer makes a save against a charging Jakobsson. Hide Caption 75 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game South Korean players celebrate after they defeated Spain 2-1 in Ottawa on Wednesday, June 17. Hide Caption 76 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Eunsun Park of South Korea is challenged by Irene Paredes of Spain. Hide Caption 77 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Eunmi Lee of South Korea and Marta Corredera of Spain chase the ball. Hide Caption 78 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Hyeri Kim, left, and Yumi Kang of South Korea defend Alexia Putellas of Spain. Hide Caption 79 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Hahnul Kwon and Younga Yoo celebrate as the ball goes into the net behind Spanish goalkeeper Ainhoa Tirapu. Hide Caption 80 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Costa Rican defender Cristin Granados eyes the ball during a match against Brazil on June 17. Brazil won 1-0 in Moncton. Hide Caption 81 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Costa Rica breaks through the Brazilian defense. Hide Caption 82 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Costa Rican goalkeeper Dinnia Diaz competes for the ball. Hide Caption 83 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Costa Rican midfielder Shirley Cruz during play. Hide Caption 84 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Costa Rican midfielder Katherine Alvarado, left, and forward Maria Barrantes jump for the ball. Hide Caption 85 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England's Steph Houghton, right, challenges Ingrid Vidal of Colombia during a match in Montreal on June 17. England won 2-1. Hide Caption 86 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Leicy Santos of Colombia tries to move the ball past England defenders. Hide Caption 87 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Colombia's Yoreli Rincon runs after the ball. Hide Caption 88 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Fran Kirby of England tries to move the ball past Lady Andrade, right, of Colombia. Hide Caption 89 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Colombia's Angela Clavijo and England's Toni Duggan chase the ball. Hide Caption 90 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game France's Marie Laure Delie, far left in white, heads her team's first goal against Mexico on June 17. France won 5-0 in Ottawa. Hide Caption 91 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Eugenie Le Sommer of France scores her team's third goal. Hide Caption 92 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Mexico's Monica Ocampo, right, and France's Jessica Houara battle for the ball. Hide Caption 93 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Mexico's Greta Espinoza, right, takes o France's Gaetane Thiney during the second half. Hide Caption 94 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game France's Elodie Thomis, left, drives the ball past a Mexico defender. Hide Caption 95 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Sweden's Therese Sjogran, right, and Australia's Emily Van Egmond battle for control of the ball during a match in Edmonton on Tuesday, June 16. The match ended in a 1-1 draw. Hide Caption 96 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Sweden's Jessica Samuelsson, left, takes on Samantha Kerr of Australia. Hide Caption 97 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Australia's Tameka Butt, right, and Sweden's Lisa Dahlkvist compete in the second half. Hide Caption 98 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Australia's Kyah Simon, left, and Dahlkvist race for the ball. Hide Caption 99 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Australia's Lisa De Vanna, right, and Sweden's Caroline Seger watch the ball. Hide Caption 100 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Australian players celebrate the draw, which clinched a spot in the next stage of the tournament. Hide Caption 101 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. goalie Hope Solo makes a save against Nigeria during a match in Vancouver on June 16. The United States beat Nigeria 1-0. Hide Caption 102 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. forward Abby Wambach celebrates her goal against Nigeria. Hide Caption 103 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Nigeria's Asisat Oshoala leaps past Lauren Holiday as she chases the ball. Hide Caption 104 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Megan Rapinoe of the United States is knocked down by Ngozi Ebere, left, and Ukpong Sunday of Nigeria. Hide Caption 105 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game American defender Julie Johnston, left, and Nigeria's Courtney Dike compete for the ball. Hide Caption 106 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Cameroon's Gabrielle Onguene, left, and Switzerland's Rachel Rinast compete for the ball during a Women's World Cup match in Edmonton on June 16. Cameroon won the match 2-1. Hide Caption 107 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Cameroon's Aurelle Awona, left, celebrates with teammate Gaelle Enganamouit. Hide Caption 108 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Rinast reacts as Jeannette Yango of Cameroon heads the ball. Hide Caption 109 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ramona Bachmann of Switzerland breaks past two Cameroon players. Hide Caption 110 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Switzerland's Lara Dickenmann and Cameroon's Augustine Ejangue jostle for the ball. Hide Caption 111 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan's Yuki Ogimi scores the only goal of the match against Ecuador on June 16. Hide Caption 112 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan forward Shinobu Ohno and Ecuador forward Denise Pesantes compete for the ball. Hide Caption 113 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Aya Miyama of Japan is tracked by Monica Quinteros of Ecuador. Hide Caption 114 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan defender Yuri Kawamura, left, and Ecuador defender Ligia Moreira go for the ball. Hide Caption 115 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Chinese defender Wang Shanshan, center, heads the ball between two New Zealand defenders during a match in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on Monday, June 15. The match ended 2-2. Hide Caption 116 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game New Zealand midfielder Katie Duncan, second from left, collides with China forward Lou Jiahui. Hide Caption 117 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Wang, right, celebrates after scoring China's second goal. Hide Caption 118 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game China midfielder Wang Lisi, left, and New Zealand defender Ali Riley vie for the ball. Hide Caption 119 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game New Zealand's Rebekah Stott, center, and Betsy Hassett celebrate Stott's goal. Hide Caption 120 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game The Netherlands' Anouk Dekker, left, and Canada's Ashley Lawrence chase the ball during the first half of a match June 15 in Montreal. The two teams tied 1-1. Hide Caption 121 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Dekker kicks the ball in front of Lawrence. Hide Caption 122 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Lieke Martens of the Netherlands and Canada's Josee Belanger compete for the ball. Hide Caption 123 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Lawrence, left, celebrates her goal with teammate Allysha Chapman. Hide Caption 124 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway midfielder Solveig Gulbrandsen, second from left, scores against Ivory Coast during a match June 15 in Moncton. Norway won 3-1. Hide Caption 125 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ivory Coast forward Ange Nguessan, left, holds off Norway defender Ingrid Moe Wold. Hide Caption 126 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway midfielder Ingrid Schjelderup, left, competes for the ball with Ivory Coast forward Ines Nhrehy. Hide Caption 127 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway forward Ada Hegerberg, right, scored twice in the match. Hide Caption 128 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany midfielder Melanie Leupolz, right, and Thailand midfielder Silawan Intamee vie for the ball during a match June 15 in Winnipeg. Germany won 4-0. Hide Caption 129 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Sara Daebritz scores a goal for Germany. Hide Caption 130 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Thailand's Sunisa Srangthaisong prepares to kick the ball. Hide Caption 131 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Lena Petermann celebrates with German teammate Melanie Behringer. Hide Caption 132 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England's Karen Carney, right, gets a shot past Valeria Miranda and Cecilia Santiago of Mexico on Saturday, June 13. England won 2-1 in Moncton. Hide Caption 133 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England midfielder Jill Scott, left, and Mexico midfielder Nayeli Rangel battle for the ball. Hide Caption 134 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Mexican forward Renae Cuellar, right, competes with English midfielder Fara Williams. Hide Caption 135 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England defender Laura Bassett heads the ball. Hide Caption 136 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Spain's Celia Jimenez, left, leaps for the ball near Brazil's Tamires and Spanish goalkeeper Ainhoa Tirapu during a match in Montreal on June 13. Brazil defeated Spain 1-0. Hide Caption 137 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Brazil's Andressa jumps over Virginia Torrecilla of Spain. Hide Caption 138 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game The ball rolls behind Brazilian goalkeeper Luciana as she makes a save. Hide Caption 139 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game French defender Laure Boulleau, right, shoots next to Colombian midfielder Carolina Arias during a match in Moncton on June 13. Colombia won 2-0. Hide Caption 140 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Colombian midfielder Nataly Arias heads the ball. Hide Caption 141 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game France's Wendie Renard takes the ball from Lady Andrade of Colombia. Hide Caption 142 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Costa Rica's Wendy Acosta, right, challenges South Korea's Ji Soyun during their 2-2 tie June 13 in Montreal. Hide Caption 143 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Shirley Cruz of Costa Rica, right, challenges Kim Hyeri of South Korea. Hide Caption 144 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game South Korean goalkeeper Kim Jungmi dives as a shot by Costa Rica goes wide of the goal. Hide Caption 145 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Costa Rica goalkeeper Dinnia Diaz comes out to knock the ball away from South Korea's Lee Geummin. Hide Caption 146 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Jeannette Yango of Cameroon, left, and Yuika Sugasawa of Japan battle for a loose ball Friday, June 12, in Vancouver. Japan defeated Cameroon 2-1. Hide Caption 147 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game A shot by Cameroon gets past Japan goalkeeper Ayumi Kaihori. Hide Caption 148 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Saki Kumagai of Japan clears under pressure from Francine Zouga of Cameroon. Hide Caption 149 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Cameroon's Gaelle Enganamouit is surrounded by Japanese defenders. Hide Caption 150 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Therese Sjogran of Sweden, left, and Sydney Leroux of the United States chase down a ball during their scoreless draw June 12 in Winnipeg. Hide Caption 151 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. forward Christen Press, left, fights for the ball with Sweden defender Nilla Fischer. Hide Caption 152 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Megan Rapinoe of the United States tries to hold off Sjogran. Hide Caption 153 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Swedish goalkeeper Hedvig Lindahl leaps over Leroux to catch the ball. Hide Caption 154 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ana Palacios of Ecuador is surrounded by Swiss defenders during a match June 12 in Vancouver. Ecuador lost 10-1. Hide Caption 155 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Switzerland's Eseosa Aigbogun, right, and Ecuador's Nancy Aguilar go for a header. Hide Caption 156 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ingrid Rodriguez of Ecuador fails to prevent an own goal by teammate Angie Ponce. Hide Caption 157 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ecuador's Monica Quinteros, left, fights off Switzerland's Rahel Kiwic. Hide Caption 158 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ecuador's Mabel Velarde slides to take the ball away from Aigbogun. Hide Caption 159 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Nigeria forward Asisat Oshoala, right, is challenged by Australia defender Steph Catley during a match June 12 in Winnipeg. Australia won 2-0. Hide Caption 160 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Kyah Simon of Australia scores a goal past Nigerian goalkeeper Precious Dede. Hide Caption 161 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Australia defender Laura Alleway heads the ball. Hide Caption 162 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Nigeria defender Osinachi Ohale, left, and Australia forward Samantha Kerr compete for the ball. Hide Caption 163 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game From left, Canada's Karina LeBlanc, Sophie Schmidt and Josee Belanger wave to fans in Edmonton after a 0-0 draw against New Zealand on Thursday, June 11. Hide Caption 164 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Canada's Kaylyn Kyle defends against New Zealand's Amber Hearn. Hide Caption 165 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Schmidt leaves the field after play was temporarily halted because of lightning. Hide Caption 166 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Canada goalie Erin McLeod makes a save. Hide Caption 167 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Christine Sinclair of Canada and Betsy Hassett of New Zealand battle for the ball. Hide Caption 168 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game China players celebrate with supporters in Edmonton following their 1-0 win against the Netherlands on June 11. Hide Caption 169 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Mandy Van Den Berg of the Netherlands, right, defends Tang Jiali of China. Hide Caption 170 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Wu Haiyan of China heads the ball in front of Lieke Martens of the Netherlands. Hide Caption 171 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Tang kicks the ball during the Netherlands match. Hide Caption 172 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Martens, left, and China's Haiyan Wu compete for a header. Hide Caption 173 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game China's Shanshan Wang, left, tries to keep the ball away from Van Den Berg. Hide Caption 174 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Anootsara Maijaren of Thailand, center, challenges Christine Lohoues of Ivory Coast during a Women's World Cup match in Ottawa on Thursday, June 11. Thailand won the match 3-2. Hide Caption 175 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Nisa Romyen of Thailand tried to protect the ball from Lohoues, left, and Fatou Coulibaly. Hide Caption 176 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ange Nguessan celebrates after scoring the Ivory Coast's first goal. Hide Caption 177 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Nguessan, left, competes with Thailand's Natthakarn Chinwong. Hide Caption 178 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany's Anja Mittag, left, scores a goal past Norway goalkeeper Ingrid Hjelmseth during a match in Ottawa on June 11. The final score was 1-1. Hide Caption 179 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway's Ada Hegerberg, left, is challenged by Germany's Annike Krahn. Hide Caption 180 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany's Tabea Kemme, left, defends against Isabell Herlovsen. Hide Caption 181 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway's Maren Mjelde, second from right, celebrates with teammates after scoring on a free kick. Hide Caption 182 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ingrid Schjelderup of Norway is challenged by two German defenders. Hide Caption 183 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Brazilian players celebrate a goal scored by Marta during their match against South Korea on Tuesday, June 9. Brazil won the match 2-0 in Montreal. Hide Caption 184 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game South Korea's Kim Do-yeon tries to move the ball past Marta. Hide Caption 185 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game South Korean hoalkeeper Kim Jung-mi makes a save near Brazil's Cristiane. Hide Caption 186 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Marta looks on during the game. Hide Caption 187 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Tamires of Brazil challenges Jeon Gaeul of South Korea. Hide Caption 188 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Spain's Natalia Pablos tries to dribble past Costa Rica's Carol Sanchez during a match June 9 in Montreal. The match ended 1-1. Hide Caption 189 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Raquel Rodriguez Cedeno, right, celebrates her goal with her Costa Rican teammates. Hide Caption 190 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Spain's Jennifer Hermoso watches Costa Rica's Diana Saenz head the ball. Hide Caption 191 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Marta Corredera of Spain is challenged by Lixy Rodriguez of Costa Rica. Hide Caption 192 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Mexico's Valerie Miranda, left, and Colombia's Lady Andrade battle for the ball during a match June 9 in Moncton. The match ended in a 1-1 draw. Hide Caption 193 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Colombian midfielder Daniela Montoya, left, celebrates her goal with teammates Tatiana Ariza, center, and Natalia Gaitan. Hide Caption 194 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Mexico forward Stephany Mayor eyes the ball. Hide Caption 195 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Mayor jumps next to Colombian midfielder Carolina Arias. Hide Caption 196 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Mexico's players celebrate their goal. Hide Caption 197 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England forward Ellen White kicks the ball during a match against France on June 9. France won the match 1-0 in Moncton. Hide Caption 198 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Jill Scott of England and Amandine Henry of France compete for a header. Hide Caption 199 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game French forward Eugenie Le Sommer is congratulated by teammate Gaetane Thiney after scoring the game's only goal. Hide Caption 200 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game England goalkeeper Karen Bardsley makes a save during the first half. Hide Caption 201 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan's Yuki Ogimi directs a header during the first half of a Women's World Cup match against Switzerland on Monday, June 8. Japan won the match 1-0 in Vancouver. Hide Caption 202 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Kozue Ando of Japan, bottom, is challenged by Caroline Abbe of Switzerland. Hide Caption 203 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Swiss goalkeeper Gaelle Thalmann dives the right way but can't stop Aya Miyama's penalty shot in the first half. Hide Caption 204 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Japan's Rumi Utsugi kicks the ball out of the air as she jumps above Switzerland's Fabienne Humm. Hide Caption 205 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Megan Rapinoe of the United States celebrates June 8 after scoring the first goal against Australia in Winnipeg. Rapinoe scored twice in the match as the Americans won 3-1. Hide Caption 206 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. goalkeeper Hope Solo makes a save in the first half. Hide Caption 207 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. forward Sydney Leroux slides into Australia's Servet Uzunlar. Hide Caption 208 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Australia's Lisa De Vanna celebrates her first-half goal with her teammates. Hide Caption 209 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. forward Christen Press heads the ball. Hide Caption 210 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game U.S. captain Abby Wambach, left, controls the ball near Australian defender Laura Alleway. Hide Caption 211 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Cameroon's Gabrielle Onguene, left, leaps into the arms of her teammates on the sideline after she scored against Ecuador on June 8. Cameroon won the match 6-0. Hide Caption 212 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ecuador's Nancy Aguilar, left, and Cameroon's Gaelle Enganamouit collide. Hide Caption 213 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Cameroon's Jeannette Yango, left, and Claudine Meffometou Tcheno, right, collide with Ecuador's Giannina Lattanzio. Hide Caption 214 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ecuador goalkeeper Shirley Berruz makes a save during the second half. Hide Caption 215 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Christine Manie of Cameroon jumps to avoid the tackle of Monica Quinteros. Hide Caption 216 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Nigeria forward Asisat Oshoala, right, scores a goal against Sweden during a Women's World Cup match June 8 in Winnipeg. The game ended in a 3-3 draw. Hide Caption 217 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Francisca Ordega of Nigeria scores past Swedish goalkeeper Hedvig Lindahl. Hide Caption 218 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Sweden's Linda Sembrant scores her team's third goal against Nigeria. Hide Caption 219 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Sweden's Nilla Fischer heads the ball for her team's first goal. Hide Caption 220 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ordega fouls Sweden's Therese Sjogran. Hide Caption 221 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany's Celia Sasic falls head first into the turf after a collision with Ivory Coast's Sophie Aguie on Sunday, June 7. Germany defeated Ivory Coast 10-0 in Ottawa. Hide Caption 222 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany's Anja Mittag, top, reacts while scoring the sixth goal of the match. Hide Caption 223 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ivory Coast midfielder Rita Akaffou, left, battles Germany forward Alexandra Popp in the second half of the match. Hide Caption 224 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Ivory Coast's Dominique Thiamale makes a save during the first half. Hide Caption 225 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Germany goalkeeper Nadine Angerer kicks the ball away as Ivory Coast's Rebecca Elloh makes a challenge. Hide Caption 226 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway's Isabell Herlovsen falls after a challenge from Thailand's Natthakarn Chinwong on Sunday, June 7. Herlovsen scored two goals as Norway defeated Thailand 4-0. Hide Caption 227 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway's Lene Mykjaland, top, battles Thailand's Silawan Intamee for the ball. Hide Caption 228 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway's Gry Tofte Ims, left, competes against Kanjana Sung-Ngoen of Thailand. Hide Caption 229 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Norway's Ingrid Moe Wold tries to keep Chinwong away from the ball. Hide Caption 230 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Dutch goalkeeper Loes Geurts, right, defends a corner kick against New Zealand on Saturday, June 6. The Netherlands won the match 1-0 in Edmonton. Hide Caption 231 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game New Zealand's Sarah Gregorius, bottom, and the Netherlands' Desiree Van Lunteren vie for the ball. Hide Caption 232 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Stefanie Van Der Gragt, front, and Lieke Martens of the Netherlands battle for a header against a New Zealand player. Hide Caption 233 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Geurts and New Zealand's Hannah Wilkinson collide. Hide Caption 234 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Dutch players celebrate Martens' goal in the first half. Hide Caption 235 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Canadian goalkeeper Erin McLeod makes a save against China in the tournament's opening match Saturday, June 6. The host nation won 1-0 in Edmonton. Hide Caption 236 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Canada's Josee Belanger, right, defends Wang Shanshan of China. Hide Caption 237 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game China's Ying Li, left, is tackled by Kadeisha Buchanan of Canada. Hide Caption 238 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Chinese goalkeeper Wang Fei tries in vain to stop a penalty kick by Canada's Christine Sinclair. The goal came late in second-half stoppage time. Hide Caption 239 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Canada's Allysha Chapman looks to cross the ball as China's Tan Ruyin defends. Hide Caption 240 of 242 Photos: Women's World Cup: The beautiful game Canada's Melissa Tancredi wins a header. Hide Caption 241 of 242
(CNN) If there's one quality I want my girls to have more than any other, it is confidence. I've seen how important it is in the workplace and in life: Confident people get what they want. They take risks. They are not afraid of failure. Growing up as a perfectionist, somewhat fearful of both failure and success, I wish I had the confidence in my teens and early 20s that I have now. For all these reasons, I was thrilled when one of my daughters, during the first grade, had to name five words to describe herself. Confident was on her list. I thought then and still think now, "What can I do to make sure she feels that way when she is a teenager?" Journalist, author and speaker Claire Shipman has some answers. In 2014, she and her co-author, Katty Kay, anchor of BBC World News America, published "The Confidence Code: The Science and Art of Self-Assurance -- What Women Should Know." The book resonated deeply with women and quickly became a bestseller. As Shipman and Kay traveled the country to speak about the book, one of the most common questions they would get was from parents, women and men, who were concerned about their daughters. " 'What about my daughter? I see this in my daughter,' " Shipman said they would say. "It was just this huge focus on young women and girls. 'What can I be doing with my girls, because I already see she's not this. She's experiencing that.' " Shipman, who spent a decade at CNN as a White House and international correspondent in the 1990s, said she and Kay did some research and found that there were plenty of books on the topic for parents but not as many specifically written for girls. So they decided to write one for girls in middle school, although it is applicable for girls up through high school, Shipman says. They also commissioned an online poll, which backs up what other research has shown. Between the ages of 8 and 14, girls' confidence drops by 30%, according to the survey of nearly 1,400 8- to 18-year-olds and their parents and guardians . The survey also found that three out of four teen girls worry about failing, "We were surprised at how quickly, how deep that drop is," Shipman said. "And especially because right until age 8, there's really no difference in confidence levels." So how do we stop this troubling trend? I asked Shipman, a mom of two, for some advice -- advice she said she's using with her 13-year-old daughter, with good results. 1. Help her get outside her comfort zone and take risks. One of the most important things we can do as parents of daughters, Shipman said, is to help them get "comfortable being uncomfortable." Shipman said she and Kay feel that if they do nothing else in this book but get girls to walk away and understand that it's cool to take risks, they will have succeeded. As for how to do that, a parent can talk to their daughter about how they approach a risk and some of the ways they can support themselves. "It's kind of counterintuitive, but just telling yourself 'Oh, you shouldn't be afraid of this' or 'there's nothing scary about it' or 'fake it until you make it,' that doesn't actually help. Risks can be scary," Shipman said. So encourage your daughter and tell her, "Yes, it's normal to feel afraid. This is a little frightening, but tell yourself 'I'm just going to do it afraid. I'm just going to do it anyway,' " Shipman said. 2. Have her keep a list of risks. Having your daughter keep a list of the risks she has taken and how she worked through them can be a reminder of what she is capable of, Shipman said. The same holds true for failures: Listing their failures and how they tackled them can be incredibly empowering. Also, have them keep a list of some stock phrases that they can tell themselves when they are in a bit of a frightening situation, such as "I've done something like this before. I can do it. I've got it." 3. Remind her of 'failure fixes.' Our girls need to know that failure will undoubtedly happen and that it's not something they can avoid. But knowing how to deal with it can help. "We all need a cheat sheet to failure," Shipman and Kay write. They offer a list of 10 "failure fixes" such as "change the channel." Encourage your daughter to do anything that helps her get in a better place, whether that is reading a book, watching TV, listening to music or cuddling with a family pet. This will help distract her from what's happened and help her stop thinking about it over and over again. Another fix is putting it in perspective. Shipman talks about an idea she and Kay heard from a middle school counselor, which she called a "virtual hot air balloon ride." Help your daughter envision herself up in the sky with the clouds and looking down at the situation that happened. "First, that lets her kind of literally put it in perspective, like, 'Wow, look, other things are going on,' and then see it from a different angle and talk about it that way." Trying to keep a sense of humor is also key. Of course, this is not easy when your daughter is melting down after what she considers the biggest failure of her life. But try to help her see that it could be much worse. "Thoughts like 'at least I didn't forget to put on pants and go to school naked after our roof caved in' ... can remind you that it really could be worse!" they write. 4. Role model failure and struggle. One of the more surprising results (at least to me) from the poll Shipman and Kay commissioned is that fathers seem to be better at recognizing a lack of confidence in their daughters than mothers: They were found to be 26% more likely to accurately estimate their child's confidence than moms were. How could that be? Aren't mothers supposed to be the more intuitive parents? But as Shipman did her research, she found that mothers perhaps don't see their daughters' behavior as unusual. "Perfectionism or worry about this or that, or sort of reticence to raise your hand, that's recognizable to us," Shipman said. "Even if instinctively we know it's wrong, it doesn't seem odd, because we've probably experienced it. We may still do it, whereas I think fathers, who do have incredibly high expectations for their daughters, would be (saying) 'What is going on with my 9-year-old? Why was she this way a year ago, and now she's thinking she can't do anything?' They find it genuinely strange." The takeaway is how influential role modeling can be for our kids. Let them see us, especially mothers, dealing with failure and struggle and taking risks. "If we're going on, 'I'm so worried about this. I have to get it right,' it doesn't help them," Shipman said. She's tried to take this advice even more with her teenage daughter and "lift the veil a little bit." When she's upset about something, for instance, such as having to rewrite a few chapters for a book, she lets her daughter see how she's feeling and then raises the question whether she's overreacting and figures out how she's going to deal with it -- all in front of her daughter. 5. Remind her she doesn't have a problem. With all the talk about girls and confidence, it's important to make it clear to our girls that it's not like they have a problem that needs to be fixed, Shipman said. Girls are the way they are for a host of reasons, including nature (brain biology) and nurture (society's different expectations for girls and boys.) They also often have a higher level of emotional intelligence. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "It's not like we want to churn out a bunch of girls who operate like boys," Shipman said. "I think it would be wonderful for young women to understand much earlier on, essentially, the world doesn't operate like school." Helping girls understand at young ages what skills will be important later in life is key, including the ability to advocate for themselves and not worry about being people pleasers, Shipman said. "Girls, even when they speak up in class or whatever it is, they want to please people, so I feel like the next hurdle is for girls to understand that they will not always please people. People won't always like them," Shipman said. "And when they speak up, some people will like what they say, and others won't, and how do they develop that armor so that they say 'but that's OK, because I'm me.' "
(CNN) A high school football player who takes cannabis oil to prevent his seizures has been ruled ineligible to play in college, a decision that has sparked outrage from advocates, lawmakers and sports fans. A former Big Ten Coach of the Year sharply criticized the decision, saying "it's not fair to the kid" and urging the NCAA to reconsider. C.J. Harris, a standout strong safety, helped lead Warner Robins High School to the Georgia state championship game and committed to play for Auburn University next season. But he was recently notified by Auburn coaches that the NCAA will not allow him to play if he remains on cannabis oil, according to CNN affiliate WGXA Under NCAA guidelines, athletes are not permitted to have any tetrahydrocannabinol in their systems. Known as THC, it is one of the active ingredients in cannabis. It has some medical applications but is also psychoactive and can cause a "high." The other active cannabis ingredient, cannabidiol or CBD, does not produce a high and is thought to offer wide-ranging health benefits, including against seizures. The cannabis oil Harris takes for his seizures contains less than 0.3% THC, according to the label. He won't be able to pass an NCAA drug test while on the medicine, WGXA reported. "We urge the NCAA to review their existing guidelines on THC and explore possible exceptions to allow players under medical treatment, like C.J., the ability to fulfill their dreams of playing college football," Phil Gattone, president and CEO of the Epilepsy Foundation, a nonprofit advocacy group, said in a statement. "We hope the NCAA would reconsider their decision and assess C.J. on his character and talent as a football player." C.J. Harris was thrilled to commit to play football for Auburn. Gattone said that although he couldn't comment specifically about Harris' use of CBD oil to treat his seizures, the "Epilepsy Foundation is committed to advocating for people with epilepsy live their fullest lives and realize their dreams." "We support safe, legal access to medical cannabis and CBD if a patient and their health care team feel that the potential benefits of medical cannabis or CBD for uncontrolled epilepsy outweigh the risks," he said. The NCAA has not responded to a request for comment. Jerry Kill, who was named Big Ten Coach of the Year as the head football coach of the University of Minnesota, even as he battled his own seizure disorder, was sharply critical of the decision. In a phone interview with CNN, he urged Auburn and the NCAA to come together to reconsider the decision. "That young man should not be punished for a disorder that is being controlled by cannabis oil," said Kill, who had to retire due to seizures and has been a champion for those with epilepsy. "I encourage both parties to take a good look at what they're doing to a young man's dream. "If it's not safe for him to play, that is one thing. But if it's because he's using CBD oil and they won't let him play, that's another. A kid should not be punished for his seizures being brought under control. It's not fair to the kid." Harris was an eighth-grader when he suffered his first seizure. By his sophomore year in high school, he was having two or three seizures a month. Typical anti-seizure medications didn't work, so his doctors eventually put him on cannabis oil. He has not had a seizure since he began taking it in January 2017, WGXA reported. CBD is legal for people with seizure disorders in Georgia as well as in neighboring Alabama, where Auburn is located. Photos: 7 uses for medical marijuana Photos: 7 uses for medical marijuana Between its outlaw image, controversial legal status and complex makeup -- the cannabis plant contains more than 400 individual chemicals -- marijuana's action in the brain and body is in many ways a mystery. The vast majority of studies on the drug have examined potential harm, as opposed to potential benefits. Even so, some medical uses are widely accepted and others are the subject of serious research. Here's a look at some potential uses of marijuana as medicine. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: 7 uses for medical marijuana Pain – In the United States, pain is the most common condition for which medical cannabis is taken. Studies show the drug is especially effective against neuropathic pain, a type of pain involving nerve damage. Marijuana is less habit-forming than opiate drugs and carries virtually no risk of a fatal overdose. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: 7 uses for medical marijuana Multiple sclerosis – Sativex, a pharmaceutical version of cannabis, is approved in 25 countries as a treatment for painful muscle spasms arising from multiple sclerosis. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: 7 uses for medical marijuana Nausea – The munchies are no joke. Marijuana is sometimes prescribed to stop nausea or induce appetite in people who have trouble eating, including patients suffering from AIDS or going through chemotherapy for cancer. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: 7 uses for medical marijuana Epilepsy – More than 100 families have moved to Colorado to access "Charlotte's Web," a cannabis strain that in some epileptic children seems to dramatically reduce seizures . Taken as an oil, the medicine is high in a chemical called CBD and low in THC, the component that makes people "high." Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: 7 uses for medical marijuana Concussion – NFL commissioner Roger Goodell said the league is following the work of Israeli researchers who are exploring cannabis as a potential treatment for traumatic brain injury. In 2003, along with two colleagues, Nobel laureate Julius Axelrod, an American, obtained a patent on the drug for its anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: 7 uses for medical marijuana Alzheimer's disease – In studies of rats, marijuana helps stave off memory problems and Alzheimer's-like brain changes. A leading researcher said the drug's iffy legal status has held up further research. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: 7 uses for medical marijuana Bipolar disorder – A small study at Harvard found that marijuana seems to stabilize the brains of people who suffer from bipolar disorder. Some studies show the drug actually raises the risk of developing mental illness, but those findings are controversial. Hide Caption 8 of 8 Harris planned to attend Auburn, his "dream school," as a walk-on next season. "I saw everything lining up perfectly for me," he told WGXA. But that dream was shattered when he was notified by Auburn staff that the NCAA ruled him ineligible if he stayed on cannabis oil. "You're taking something away from a kid who worked so hard his whole life to get there, and you're just taking it away because he's taking a medication that's helping him with a disability," father Curtis Harris told WGXA. Allen Peake, a state representative who has championed medical marijuana for children in Georgia, expressed outrage at the news of Harris' ineligibility . "We must fix this," he tweeted. Heath Clark, a state representative from Warner Robins, had rejoiced at the state Capitol in February when Harris committed to Auburn, saying that the young man being seizure-free was a wonderful example of good news resulting from the legalization of medical marijuana. "His dreams are being fulfilled. He has a future. He's going to get a quality education at that school across the Georgia border," Clark said at the time. As news of Harris' ineligibility spread Friday, Clark took to Twitter to bash the NCAA. "The NCAA needs to fix their outdated policies," he wrote. The @NCAA needs to fix their outdated policies! They let athletes compete while taking other far more dangerous, addictive, deadly drugs. Pharma medications didn't help. #CannabisOil / #MedicalMarijuana did. Pulling for @CurtisJavonHar5 https://t.co/RRyFA35LPB — Heath Clark (@HeathClarkGA) May 24, 2018 Harris had committed to Auburn in February, announcing to his Twitter followers that "God has afforded me a once in a lifetime opportunity that I could not pass up." He told WGXA he is now looking at junior college programs or other schools not under NCAA guidelines. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. He said he was speaking up for others with seizure disorders and standing in solidarity with them -- to get the word out that there's "no need for me to give up at anything I want to do in life." The issue is likely to come up more often as the US Food and Drug Administration considers approving an epilepsy drug that would be the first plant-derived cannabidiol medicine for prescription use in the United States The FDA will vote in late June on whether to approve the drug, Epidiolex, an oral solution, for the treatment of severe forms of epilepsy in a small group of patients. The FDA has approved synthetic versions of some cannabinoid chemicals found in the marijuana plant for other purposes, including cancer pain relief.
Story highlights The US has long respected and promoted science, Nye writes Nye: Science is being undermined by ideological forces motivated to maintain the status quo Bill Nye, known as Bill Nye the Science Guy, is an American science educator, television presenter, and mechanical engineer. He is the CEO of The Planetary Society, the world's largest non-profit space interest group. The opinions expressed are his own. (CNN) I was proud to join thousands of concerned citizens, scientists and engineers in Saturday's March for Science. With more than 600 marches taking place around the world, we conveyed that science is political, not partisan, and science should shape our policies. Although it is the means by which humankind discovers objective truths in nature, science is and has always been political. Article I, Section 8 of the US Constitution refers to promoting "the progress of science and useful arts" to motivate innovators, stimulate the economy and establish just laws. The US has become the most powerful nation on Earth and among the greatest in history, because it has long respected and promoted science. Countless policies, from military deployments to regulations that control the formula of a shampoo, are based on science. Scientific research depends on government investment (approximately $65 billion in the US last year), which itself relies on a social compact: that basic research across all fields is beneficial to a nation. Currently, science is being actively undermined by ideological forces motivated to maintain the status quo rather than advance the nation's long-term interest. This is especially true of the extractive fossil fuel industries. When facing tides of deliberate misinformation, scientists, engineers and researchers have taken it upon themselves to organize and raise awareness about their professions and the vital importance of the scientific enterprise. Read More
amesy via Getty Images When Mel Neve founded her Facebook group Women with PTSD United four years ago, she couldn’t imagine it would swell to 17,000 members. She said it’s become a tight sisterhood, in which members share jokes and memes ― and offer each other advice about their most painful private struggles. “We’ve laughed and cried with each other and bared our souls and done so much deep bonding,” Neve said. She credits her peers for helping her understand how her lingering anxiety and depression are connected to her past traumas, including domestic violence, kidnapping and burglary. When Neve heard about Facebook’s privacy violations, she wasn’t so concerned about her own data. But with Facebook users threatening to delete their accounts en masse over recently exposed privacy violations, she worried what would happen to her beloved community. Would the group start to lose members in the #deleteFacebook campaign? That concern is shared by many administrators of Facebook’s wildly popular groups feature, launched in 2004, which offers support forums for many people struggling with health conditions ― from infertility to depression to cancer. Even if Neve’s most loyal members stayed put, she feared that potential new members wouldn’t be on Facebook to discover her group, or that existing users would spend less time there and contribute fewer posts and encouraging comments. Earlier this year, company CEO Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook usage had dipped by 5 percent even before the Facebook backlash began. “Facebook is a safe place for us,” said Neve, a speech therapist in Concord, Michigan. “I don’t even know what other kind of forum could reach this many people worldwide.” How much of Facebook is truly closed? How visible are your posts? Could someone take a screenshot of something you said and repost it? Glenn Cohen, Petrie-Flom Center for Health Law, Biotechnology and Bioethics So far, the exodus Neve feared hasn’t happened: New data this week shows that the social media giant’s membership has reached nearly 2.2 billion – up 13 percent from the previous year, according to the latest earnings report. But Facebook group administrators have noticed that their members are increasingly worried about the privacy of their personal information and soul-baring posts. So while usage doesn’t currently seem to be at risk, Facebook users’ behavior might be changing. Chrissi Kenkel, founder of the 33,000-strong Mental Health Awareness and Support group, said she’s noticed more members asking “Can my friends or family see what I’m writing?” And Katharina Sucita, who runs the Weight Loss Support Group, which has more than 55,000 members, said members’ privacy concerns recently prompted her to make the group “closed” ― a designation that requires administrators to approve members and limits visibility to those inside the group. “That way members would feel more comfortable sharing their personal stories and weight loss pictures without fearing their neighbor or boss might see them,” Sucita said. It’s impossible to expect a true sense of privacy among 55,000 people, but users and bioethicists alike have lingering questions about Facebook’s use of data. “How much of Facebook is truly closed?” asked Glenn Cohen director of Harvard’s Petrie-Flom Center for Health Law, Biotechnology and Bioethics. “How visible are your posts? Could someone take a screenshot of something you said and repost it?” These new questions may be a good thing. Our deep desire to connect can lull us into a false sense of security, according to Matthew DeCamp, assistant professor at the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics. “Over time, people become more comfortable sharing, and what could happen to their data isn’t at the forefront of their minds,” he said. Over time, people become more comfortable sharing, and what could happen to their data isn’t at the forefront of their minds. Matthew DeCamp, Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics Although Facebook denies sharing the content of users’ posts or comments in closed groups, some people are wondering whether other kinds of health information could be at risk. Last month, news broke that Facebook had approached several U.S. health organizations, including Stanford Medical School and the American College of Cardiology, about sharing anonymized patient data on illnesses and prescriptions to match it with data it had collected. Facebook responded in a statement: “This work has not progressed past the planning phase, and we have not received, shared, or analyzed anyone’s data.” The company separately told HuffPost, “We take protecting people’s privacy very seriously. We do not sell people’s data. Nor do we allow advertisers to target people based on health conditions or conversations on Facebook, including in Groups.” Yet the social media network is constantly gathering other kinds of health information that’s valuable to advertisers, said Kirsten Ostherr, a digital health technology researcher at Rice University and author of a recent Washington Post op-ed on the topic. Examples include products or links that you “like,” your search history (like “breast augmentation surgery”) or where you’re logging on from, such as a cancer treatment center. “You can start to see there’s plenty of information for a company to figure out whether you would be a good target for ads about their drugs and health products,” she said. Earlier this month, Facebook announced it was launching a feature to help users control the release of their info to third parties. Cohen is also concerned about the possibility of so-called anonymized data being used for commercial reasons. Imagine what kind of connections future data miners could make based on your social media posts, fitness trackers, voting record, purchasing history and perhaps even genetic data. “Whatever the risks are now, if there are no policy changes as more and more data about you becomes known, the risk of re-identifying you is only going to go up,” Cohen said, noting that this could affect your ability to get a job, health insurance or life insurance. The European Union has been leading the way in changing the way companies collect data. Under a new law that goes into effect May 25, companies must ask if they can collect data and disclose any breaches within 72 hours. I can’t tell you what it’s meant to talk to other parents who are going through what I am. We found each other on Facebook. Sandra Sermone, member of ADNPKids
Joe Biden is the 47th Vice President of the United States. The Biden Foundation has declared its mission is rooted in the belief that everyone deserves a fair shot at achieving the American dream. Kevin Washington is President and CEO of the YMCA of the USA , which says its cause is to build stronger, more inclusive and welcoming communities that allow all people to thrive. The Biden Foundation and YMCA of the USA's new initiative is supported by the Gill Foundation and the David Bohnett Foundation, two organizations dedicated to advancing equality for LGBTQ communities. The views expressed in this commentary are their own. (CNN) As lifelong public servants, we've both committed our lives to the notion that no matter who you are, where you're from or who you love -- every individual deserves to be treated with dignity and respect. Period. Over the past decade, the United States has made tremendous progress toward equality for all -- including new laws like the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Hate Crimes Prevention Action and landmark Supreme Court decisions including Obergfell v. Hodges and U.S. v. Windsor to affirm the equal treatment of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) people. But history shows us that legal equality does not automatically translate into lived equality in our communities. Today, too many members of the LGBTQ community continue to face discrimination, harassment, rejection and physical violence every day at school, at work , in their neighborhoods and even in their homes. This crisis is especially severe among youth. LGBTQ youth are five times more likely to attempt suicide than their heterosexual peers, and they represent up to 40% of the homeless youth population even though they make up only about 7% of the overall youth population in the US. In addition, LGBTQ individuals and families experience disproportionately high rates of poverty food insecurity and violence . According to the FBI, LGBTQ individuals have surpassed other groups as the most likely to be targeted for hate crimes Our shared belief is that communities -- and our nation -- cannot reach their full potential when a segment of the population is marginalized, and these harrowing statistics demonstrate we're not yet where we want to be. Collectively, we can do something about it. Research has shown -- and we've witnessed through the work of our organizations -- that communities thrive when everyone has an equal opportunity to reach their full potential, contribute their talents and connect with their neighbors to work for the greater good. In addition to helping protect our LGBTQ youth, we believe that placing greater emphasis on equality and inclusion is vital to developing strong economies , a vibrant democracy and safe and welcoming communities for all. That's why the Biden Foundation and YMCA of the USA are launching a new initiative to foster LGBTQ inclusion and equality. Working together, we will begin to change our culture to one of greater inclusion, empathy and understanding by enhancing the ability of YMCAs to serve LGBTQ youth and adults and fostering greater understanding in communities across the country. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Here's how it will work: a cohort of Ys -- diverse in geographic location, size and membership -- will develop and implement locally focused strategies designed to engage and support LGBTQ individuals and their families. These strategies may include staff training; member outreach and engagement; program innovation for LGBTQ youth, adults, seniors and families; and community collaborations. Over time, the best practices and tools developed by the cohort will be disseminated to Ys nationwide. This kind of work -- work to ensure everyone has a fair shot at the American dream and to build stronger, more welcoming communities -- is what drives our organizations, and we call upon others to join. Every American deserves to be treated with dignity and respect, but too many in the LGBTQ community are denied this basic human right today. This is unacceptable in a country founded on the belief that we all are created equal. Equality and opportunity for all is the way to a brighter future, and at the Biden Foundation and the Y, this is the future we are working to create.
(CNN) The second search for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 ended Tuesday after a fruitless 90-day sweep of the southern Indian Ocean. The US-based company that conducted the hunt, Ocean Infinity, said it had covered 112,000 square kilometers of the ocean floor, but ultimately found nothing. The aircraft disappeared in 2014 carrying 239 people from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in one of the world's biggest aviation mysteries. Ocean Infinity took over after the initial search failed on a no-find, no-fee basis. "Part of our motivation for renewing the search was to try to provide some answers to those affected. It is therefore with a heavy heart that we end our current search without having achieved that aim," Ocean Infinity CEO Oliver Plunkett said in a statement. Read More
Have you ever waited with excitement to share some amazingly good news with your partner, only to experience a surge of frustration and resentment when he or she barely reacts to your announcement? As a society, we place a huge amount of emphasis on being there for each other when we're in need, but past research has actually shown that relationship satisfaction is influenced as much, if not more, by how we react to each other's good news. Whereas emotional support from a partner when we're down can have the unfortunate side-effect of making us feel indebted and more aware of our negative emotions, a partner's positive reaction to our good news can magnify the benefits of that good fortune and make us feel closer to them. Now an unusual brain-imaging study , published in Human Brain Mapping, has added to this picture, showing that the relationship satisfaction of longtime married elderly women is particularly related to the neural activity they show in response to their husbands' displays of positive emotion, rather than negative emotion. Psychologist Raluca Petrican at the Rotman Research Institute in Toronto and her colleagues at the University of Toronto recruited 14 women with an average age of 72 who'd been married for an average of 40 years. The researchers scanned these women's brains as they watched some carefully prepared videos. The silent 10-second videos showed each woman's husband or a stranger displaying an emotion that mismatched the way the video clip was labeled in a one-sentence description on the screen. For example, the clip might show the husband smiling or laughing about a happy memory (such as the first house they bought), but the video was labeled misleadingly to suggest that the man was showing this emotion while talking about a sad memory (such as the time he got fired). Other videos showed the reverse mismatch: a negative emotional display, ostensibly shown while talking about the memory of a happy event. Essentially, the videos were designed to make the women feel like they were seeing their husband or the stranger display a surprising emotional reaction that didn't match their own feelings. The real-world equivalent would be a situation in which a husband is happy about something that his wife doesn't "get"; and the questions are whether she will notice, and whether she is she more sensitive to this incongruent emotion in her husband than she would be in a stranger. The first important finding to emerge from this setup was that the women showed enhanced overall brain activity -- which suggests more mental and emotional neural processing -- when watching the videos of their husbands compared with videos of the strangers, but only when the videos showed displays of surprisingly incongruent positive emotion. During the other types of videos (when the men appeared to display strangely negative emotion), the women's brains showed just as much overall activity when watching a stranger as when watching their husband. In other words, their levels of whole-brain activity betrayed a special sensitivity to their husband's (versus a stranger's) unexpected positive emotion. This jibes with the past research that's shown it's our response to our partners' positive news that is all-important for relationship satisfaction. Remember that these women had been married for decades, so it's likely that they and their husbands have been doing something right relationship-wise. The brain-imaging data suggest part of the reason might be that the women are acutely tuned to when their husbands are showing happiness that's personal to them (rather than common to both partners). This specific interpretation trips up a little with another main result: The women's levels of marital satisfaction (according to a questionnaire) correlated with the amount of neural processing they showed in response to their husbands positive and negative emotion. However, the special importance of how we respond to our partners' positive emotion was supported by another key finding. Namely, women who scored higher on relationship satisfaction showed more brain activation in regions thought to contain mirror neurons (neurons that are considered important for empathy) when watching their spouses than they did when watching a stranger. Moreover, this enhanced mirror-neuron activity was especially present for the videos showing their husbands' positive, rather than negative, emotion. Again, this appears to support the idea that marital happiness goes hand in hand with sensitivity to our partners' positive emotion (though the researchers acknowledge a different or complementary interpretation that people in happy relationships have a suppressed response to their partners' incongruent negative emotion). We need to interpret these preliminary and complex findings with caution. And the exclusive focus on wives' reactions to their husbands' emotions does lend the study a slightly retro '70s vibe -- what about the way that husbands respond to their wives' emotions, and the importance of that for the marital happiness of both parties? But that said, the results are tantalizing in suggesting that at a neural level, people in a long-term, committed relationship are especially sensitive to their partners' positive emotion, and particularly so when this emotion is different from their own. This neatly complements other past research showing, for example, that people who are unable to differentiate their partners' emotions from their own (they assume they're the same), tend to be viewed by their partners as more controlling and smothering. As a whole, this entire body of research gives pause for thought. How do you react when your partner arrives home on an emotional high? Would you only notice if you were feeling happy too?
(CNN) 2017 was a year when discussions of press freedom and the media's choices reached a new level of intensity. White House briefings, presidential tweets and rallies critiqued the media. Journalists pushed back, while engaging in lively debate about the ways they approach their work. And, perhaps fittingly, the year is about to end with the release of "The Post," a Steven Spielberg film, starring Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks, that retells the story of how an administration tried, and ultimately failed, to stop newspapers from printing a damning government report about the Vietnam War. Despite the news coverage, the Hollywood treatment and the millions of words of commentary about these issues, just how much do most of us truly understand about why journalists do what they do and why the Constitution affords protection for free expression?
Jennifer L. Lawless is a professor of government and director of the Women & Politics Institute at American University. The opinions in this article belong to the author. (CNN) Before Donald Trump even took the oath of office, a clear storyline began to emerge: A Year of the Woman was on the horizon. The day after his inauguration, that narrative was set in stone. After all, hundreds of thousands of women marched across the country to demonstrate their opposition to the new President. Organizations opposed to Trump's agenda reported a surge in donations. And groups that recruit women to work on campaigns saw an unprecedented number of people at their training events. In fact, women were so angry, energized, and active that a record number decided to run for office. You can't win if you don't run Even in the Trump era, women remain much less likely than men to run for office. In the four states that held congressional primaries Tuesday, a record number of women -- 45 -- sought their party's nomination. But an unusually high number of men did, too. As a result, only 18% of the major-party US House and Senate candidates were women. This proportion is indistinguishable from 2016 , 2014, 2012, and 2010, according to Rutgers University's Eagleton Institute of Politics and the Center for American Women and Politics and my own research. Unless women win their primaries -- and then the general election -- at significantly higher rates than men (more on that in a minute), based on my calculations and analysis of Tuesday's results , it's mathematically impossible to see a substantial uptick in the number of women serving in Congress. There aren't many GOP women The overwhelming majority of female candidates (71%) were Democrats, as has been the case for nearly two decades . In 34 of the 44 GOP primaries held Tuesday, not even one woman appeared on the ballot. That's almost twice the number of races on the Democratic side (18) that featured only men. Lopsided party ratios of this magnitude severely limit the number of women who can win in November. JUST WATCHED Chalian: Trump will get pat on the back Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chalian: Trump will get pat on the back 00:59 Even in an election cycle with an unusually high number of competitive districts, more than three-quarters of them remain safe for one party or the other , according to the Cook Political Report. If women don't compete in GOP primaries, then they can't be the party's nominee in the 155 districts that will surely send a Republican to Congress. Unseating incumbents is difficult With only one exception , every incumbent who sought re-election won the primary. This is important for two reasons. Perhaps most obviously, 82% of incumbents seeking re-election were men. The second reason we should pay attention to the incumbency advantage is that 14 of the 18 non-incumbent women who won their primaries will face incumbents in November. To be sure, one of the keys to increasing women's representation is having women run in all kinds of districts, both open-seat and incumbent-held. But the gains to be made by knocking out an incumbent are far slower-going than those that can result from open-seat contests. Many wins were in the wrong places Women were just as likely as men to win their races. In fact, far more so: 57% of women, compared to 32% of men, declared victory Tuesday. In Indiana, West Virginia, and Ohio, the majority of Democratic candidates on the ballot in November will be women. That's remarkable. When we take a closer look at the districts where women won, though, it becomes clear that for many of them, general election victories are highly unlikely. Consider Indiana. Democratic women won primaries in five of the state's nine districts. But all five are solid GOP territory. The two Democratic districts reelected their Democratic male incumbents. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook The story is much the same in West Virginia, where Democratic women won the nomination in two of the state's three congressional districts. Both districts, however, are heavily Republican; and both Democratic women will face Republican male incumbents in November. In Ohio, Democrats nominated women in 10 of the 16 districts. But only three of those districts are Democratic, and all three are already represented by female incumbents. Meanwhile, in the nine solidly Republican districts, no women even ran in the GOP primary. I don't want to diminish the energy and enthusiasm that has propelled a record number of women to run for Congress. And I don't want to suggest that women shouldn't throw their hats into the ring even when they face very long odds. I did it myself in 2006 , and running for Congress remains the most meaningful experience of my life. But I also don't want to set unrealistic expectations. If Tuesday's primaries are harbingers of what's to come -- and admittedly, the electoral landscape varies from state to state -- then the Year of the Woman might turn out to be a year of only incremental gains. We might want to prepare for a Year of the Usual.
CNN is committed to covering gender inequality wherever it occurs in the world. This story is part of As Equals , a year-long series. Nairobi, Kenya — Health worker Elizabeth Wanjiru was walking through the narrow streets of Kenya's largest slum earlier this year when she came across two schoolboys pointing at something in a muddy ditch. As she drew closer she saw it was the remains of an aborted fetus. Dumped elsewhere in Kibera, the fetus had washed up in a narrow alleyway after a night of rainfall. It's something Wanjiru hasn't seen for years. Wanjiru and other health workers in Kenya told CNN that the number of backstreet abortions have increased since the United States cut aid to family planning programs that provide abortion services, in addition to contraception, in the world's least developed countries. Ushered in by President Donald Trump's administration, the Mexico City policy, or global gag rule, was supposed to reduce the number of abortions, but healthcare workers in Kenya say it's doing the opposite. The cuts, which left thousands of women in Kenya without contraception, have forced many to resort to risky, backstreet abortions as a form of birth control. Trump is also eyeing funding changes in the US. Last week, his administration proposed a new rule that would bar abortions or advice on abortion at facilities receiving federal family planning funds. While there are already laws in place that prevent federal money from directly funding abortions, the new rule would mean family planning programs would have to perform abortion services or provide abortion counseling and referrals in a different place, and by different employees, for the facility to continue receiving federal family planning dollars. It's been described as a domestic version of the global gag policy by abortion rights activists Khadijah Dija lost access to free injectable contraceptives after Trump's Mexico City policy went into effect. Reliant on international donors for support, communities like Kibera are where the Mexico City policy has been felt the most and, so far, the national government says it has been unable to make up the shortfall. For five years Khadijah Dija visited a family health clinic in the slum every three months to get a free contraceptive injection until Trump's funding cuts came into effect. The single mother-of-two says she relied on the family-planning method to avoid having another child she couldn't afford. Her daily earnings from selling porridge, equivalent to 50 cents, are barely enough to buy food for her family, or pay rent on their one-room house. When the nongovernmental organization Family Health Options Kenya (FHOK) informed Dija last August that it no longer had funds to provide her with free contraception she said she was devastated. The three-month injectable contraceptives she had previously received for free would now cost her $4, according to FHOK. Sitting on the bottom bunk of her children's bed, their toys scattered around her, Dija told CNN that she had considered getting injections from a local pharmacy, where they sell for about $2 to $3. But she said they're often expired, or unsafe, and she couldn't afford them anyway. Injectables are the most commonly used form of contraception for women in Africa. Invisible to partners, they reduce the risk of backlash and are easy to use. Africa already has the lowest percentage of women using birth control, and the highest unmet demand for contraceptives in the world. And because many African countries rely on US Agency for International Development (USAID) money to fill gaps in women's health services, the Trump funding cuts are hitting women like Dija particularly hard. Without access to contraception, Dija became pregnant with her third child last October. She went to a backstreet clinic in Kibera and got abortion pills illegally. To pay for the pills, which cost about $10, Dija had to dip into precious savings she had made from her work at a women's group in the slum. "I couldn't give birth because my husband is not supporting or helping me, so I decided to terminate the pregnancy. I thought that was the best option," she said. When CNN interviewed Dija in her home, she said it had been a month since taking the abortion pills, and she was still bleeding. Asked what she will do if the bleeding doesn't stop, Dija said: "I hope it will." Abortion is illegal in Kenya, except for when the life or health of the mother is at risk, but it is on the rise in Kibera, where most residents live in extreme poverty -- earning less than $1 per day. Wilson Bunde stands outside the FHOK clinic in Kibera, where women once received free contraceptives. Wilson Bunde, who works with FHOK, said women like Dija, who were coming to the Kibera clinic for free contraceptives, are returning to be treated for botched abortions instead. Organizations like Bunde's are supported by the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF), a global provider of sexual and reproductive health services, which stands to lose up to $100 million in USAID after refusing to sign up to the terms of Trump's policy. The cuts meant FHOK stopped offering subsidized contraception in Kibera, closed a clinic and cut a community outreach program. Without access to that program, Bunde estimated, 36,000 women went without family planning last year. In February 2018, the US State Department released an initial review of Trump's expanded policy , rebranded Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance (PLGHA). The State Department said it was still "too early to assess the full range of benefits and challenges of the PLGHA policy." But it did include one comment of support from the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, which praised PLGHA as "one of the most significant policy initiatives on abortion ever taken by the United States in an area of foreign assistance." It's not the first time that a US president has imposed changes to USAID for organizations administering family planning in the world's least developed countries. First introduced by President Ronald Reagan in 1984, the global gag rule was rescinded by Democrats and then reinstated by Republicans (under George W. Bush), but never before to this extent. Women sell bananas, baby diapers, and other items on a street in Kibera, Africa's biggest slum. Trump's policy slashes an estimated $8.8 billion in US global health assistance -- funding that applies not only to family planning, as it has previously, but extends to prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, infectious diseases, and even hygiene programs. In 2001, the Bush administration cut about $600 million in foreign aid. One year later, induced abortions spiked. The correlation was identified in a 2011 Stanford University study , which analyzed abortion rates in 20 sub-Saharan African countries receiving USAID for family planning and women's health over 14 years. The researchers found that when the Mexico City policy was in place, women were up to 2.73 times more likely to get abortions than women in countries where the policy was not applied. In Kibera, women are turning to untrained abortion providers as a last resort. One practitioner, who asked that CNN not use her real name due to fear of prosecution, said she often treats women who are between six and seven months pregnant. She performs the procedure with a knitting needle, puncturing the pregnant woman's amniotic sac, which forces the fetus out of the uterus. The practitioner, who told CNN that she was a trained midwife, said she sees mostly young schoolgirls and unmarried women. She carries out the abortions in her small home. On a twin bed covered by a thin clear plastic sheet, sat a bag with surgical gloves, a jar of petroleum jelly, cotton wool, some pain killers and the needle, attached to a long, thin tube, which is used to drain the fluid into a bucket on the floor. Two men stand chatting on the balcony of a community arts center in the heart Kibera. Botched abortions cost Kenya about $6.3 million in 2016, according to a recent report published by Africa Health Population Research in partnership with Kenya's Ministry Of Health . And experts say that number is expected to rise in the wake of Trump's cuts. Kibera health worker Elizabeth Wanjiru, says that when she first became involved in family planning outreach programs she had hoped it would bring an end to the backstreet abortions. When she saw the fetus in the ditch in Kibera, she said: "It touched me, and it made me remember what I did." Health worker Elizabeth Wanjiru told CNN that women in Kibera are "crying," asking her for free family planning. Wanjiru once had a backstreet abortion herself, and she doesn't want women to have to go through what she experienced. But she says that it's become much more difficult to stop women from turning to backstreet abortions, now that contraceptives are unaffordable for most. "This is why you will find babies aborted, due to lack of access to family planning." — Florence Obondo contributed to this report from Nairobi.
Stephen Moore is an economic consultant with Freedom Works and a CNN senior economic analyst. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) During the presidential campaign, when Donald Trump recited his favorite riff: "Build the wall," I would always advise him, "Make sure that wall has big gates for immigrants to enter legally." Over the next few weeks, Congress has some big decisions to make on immigration, and this comes at a time when both parties seem to be leaning in the wrong direction. Democrats are, well, for lack of a better word, stonewalling on building the wall. They say it's an ineffective way to stop illegal crossings, and they may be right. But they miss the point. For millions of Americans the wall is seen as the fulfillment of a promise: Washington will take border security seriously for the first time in decades. On some of their stances, they risk the possibility that voters will think they care more about undocumented immigrants than American workers. That's not a winning position with voters. Some Democrats also are in favor of allowing immigrants to get broad use of public benefits -- food stamps, public housing, free college tuition, Medicaid and the like (although undocumented immigrants currently aren't able to qualify for welfare or food stamps). For 200 years, immigrants have been coming to the United States ‎without receiving welfare. In fact they could be denied entry if the immigration officials believed they would become a " public charge ." Wave after wave of the foreign born have done magnificently well by pulling themselves up by their bootstraps. Many Republicans are also making a mistaken plea to reduce not just illegal immigration but also to lower the number of legal immigrant visas. Why? Almost every economic analysis finds that legal immigrants are net contributors to the economy. Not all immigrants are beneficial, and sure there are bad apples in the bunch. But the benefits of immigration are surprisingly large -- mostly because most immigrants are risk-takers who come to the United States between the ages of 16 and 40 -- so they tend to be at the start of their working years or at the peak of their earning years. The net benefits to American citizens in terms of growing the economy and paying taxes is in the trillions of dollars over the next 30 to 40 years when you include Social Security payments. So if the GOP wants to be a growth party, it must be a pro-immigration party. Period. Within the conservative movement, alas, there is a new neo-Malthusian strain of people who believe we have to worry about exploding population growth and limited resources. Ridiculous. US birth rates just hit a 30-year low, and without immigration we would have negative population growth and we'd soon look like aging Japan. Immigration is America's fountain of youth. My view is that with the graying of the population and the low birth rates, we should allow about 1.5 million legal immigrants into the United States each year (we are now at about 1 million per year ). We should change the selection process to a merit-based policy along the lines of what Trump has endorsed and that has been adopted in Canada and Australia. Immediate family members, children and spouses would still go to the front of the line. This would ensure that we get the best, brightest and hardest-working -- regardless of race, ethnicity or nation of origin. If we did so, we would never in this century have to worry about China overtaking the United States as a world superpower. We would import all their brainiacs as well as the most talented and skilled from the countries with which we compete. Most importantly, there should be no welfare benefits for immigrants until they become citizens. That's the deal. To the immigrants we say: We will give you the greatest asset in the world -- a US passport allowing you to share in our freedoms and our wonderland of opportunity -- but you can't live on the dole. You and your sponsors are responsible for your well-being. With entitlement spending exploding, and trillions of dollars of future deficits in these programs, we can't afford to allow foreigners to come to America to collect our generous benefits. ‎We now have fairly strong evidence that welfare has the same debilitating dependency effects on ‎immigrants as it does on the native born -- it saps them of their economic drive, which is the very attribute that makes immigrants such valuable assets in the first place. To recap: We need to build the wall to signal the importance of border security. We need to allow more, not fewer legal immigrants. We need to shift toward a system that admits those with special skills and talents. And we need to disqualify legal immigrants from expensive welfare programs so that they do not become a cost to American citizens. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook To get such a deal done, Democrats have to get tougher on illegal immigrants, and Republicans have to allow more visas each year. There's a win-win for immigrants and the American economy here if Congress can just put partisan politics aside for a week or two and do what's right for the country.
We Indians almost eat, sleep and drink Bollywood. We take Bollywood movies and especially their dialogues so seriously that we may not recollect answers to questions during exams, but there's no chance that we will forget our favourite dialogues--because bade bade deshon mein aisi choti choti baatein hoti rehti hai, Senorita. But, for how long are we supposed to keep using the ghise-pite dialogues? New movies have come and gone, but we can't seem to get over, "Kitne aadmi the?" Even Gabbar Singh must be tired by now! So, it is probably time to reboot our systems and move on from such overused dialogues. Amritansh Trivedi, a Quora user asked the community to list the best Bollywood dialogues we failed to notice . And guess what? There are a lot of impactful dialogues from the recent movies that most of us probably missed. The thread has some real hidden gems. • Amritansh Trivedi. 1. Manjhi: The Mountain Man (2015) ''Bhagwan ke bharose na baithiye, kya pata bhagwan hamare bharose baitha ho'' • Saurabh Wadhawan 2. A Wednesday. (2008) "Usne mujhe apna naam bataya. Lekin main woh naam kisi ko nahi bata sakta. Insaan naam mein mazhab dhoondh leta hai." • Gurpreet Singh. 3. Talvar. (2015) "Kisi bhi begunah ko saza milne se accha hai, dus gunegaar chhut jaye." 4. Filmistaan. (2012) "Kabhi kabhi main sochta hoon ki yeh border-woder hote hi nahi. Aana jaana free hota. Oye bhagne bhugne ki jaroorat nahi hoti." 5. Jolly LLB. (2013) "Maanta hoon footpath pe sone ka haq nahi hai, par footpath gadi bhi chalane ke liye nahi hota. " 6. Baghban. (2003) "Maa-baap zindagi ki pedh ki jadh hain. Ped kitna hi bada ho jaye, kitna hi hara-bhara ho jaye, jadh kaatne se woh hara-bhara nahi reh sakta." 7. Haider. (2014) "Inteqam se sirf inteqam paida hota hai." 8. Ankhon Dekhi. (2013) "Kitna sundar jeevan? Kitna sukh? Kitne saare anubhav? Sab anubhav ko jodd kar bana mera jeevan... Sab anubhav ka yog main." 9. Rocket Singh: Salesman of the Year. (2009) "Zero bhi bade kaam ki cheez hoti hai... agar use karne waala uski value pakde... sahi jagah par laga do, toh saale ko jitni baar lagaoge... utna hi fayda hoga." • Nishaant Prateek. 10. Swades. (2004) "Main nahi maanta ki hamara desh duniya ka sabse mahaan desh hai, lekin yeh zaroor maanta hoon ki hum mein kaabiliyat hai apne desh ko mahaan banane ki. Yeh dono desh ek doosre se har pehlu, har roop mein ek-doosre se alag hain... Jab bhi hum muqaable mein dabne lagte hain toh hum ek hi cheez ka aadhar lete hain - sanskaar, parampara. America ne apne bal-boote pe tarakki ki hai aur unke apne sanskaar hain, apni parampara hai. Ab yeh kehna ki unke soch-vichaar, unka rehan-sehan, unki manyataayein kharaab hain aur humaari mahaan, yeh galat hai." In addition to the Quora thread, we've added some of ours in the list. 11. Jaane Tu... Ya Jaane Na. (2008) Aditi: "College ke paanch saal kahan nikal gaye pata hi nahi chala." Jai's mom: "Phone par beta, phone par." 12. Dil Dhadakne Do . (2015) "Kehte hai kutton ki naak badi tezz hoti hai... magar khatra soonghne ke mamle mein insaano ki naak ka bhi jawab nahi." 13. 3 Idiots. (2009) "Human behaviour ke baare mein uss din humne kuch jaana. Dost fail ho jaaye toh dukh hota hai, lekin dost first aa jaaye toh zyaada dukh hota hai." 14. Swades. (2004) Mela Ram to Mohan: "It's like apni chaukhat ka dia giving light to neighbor's house." 15. Jolly LLB. (2013) "Kanoon andha hota hai, judge nahi." 16. Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani. (2013) "Kahin par pahunchne ke liye, kahin se nikalna bahut zaruri hai." 17. My Name Is Khan. (2010) "Ek baat yaad rakhna beta... iss duniya mein sirf do qisam ke insaan hain, acche insaan jo accha kaam karte hain aur bure jo bura. Bas ek yahi farq hai insaano mein aur koi nahi." 18. OMG - Oh My God! (2012) "Mere hisaab se toh ek hi kaam karta hai dharam, ya to woh insaan ko bebas banata hai ya phir aatankwadi. " 19. Mary Kom. (2014) "Kabhi kisiko itna bhi mat darao ki darr hi khatam hojaye." 20. Rocket Singh: Salesman of the Year. (2009) "Risk toh Spider-man ko bhi lena padta hai... main toh phir bhi salesman hoon." Also see on HuffPost:
President Donald Trump’s doctor claims that Trump himself wrote the bizarre letter of health that included results from a 2015 physical suspiciously written with many superlatives, CNN reported Tuesday. Trump’s presidential campaign released the letter, signed by his personal physician Dr. Harold Bornstein, after Trump’s health came into question in 2015. “Mr. Trump has had a recent complete medical examination that showed only positive results,” Bornstein’s letter read. “Actually, his blood pressure, 110/65, and laboratory test results were astonishingly excellent.” “His physical strength and stamina are extraordinary,” Bornstein continued. “If elected, Mr. Trump, I can state unequivocally, will be the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency.” Bornstein told CNN on Tuesday that Trump essentially wrote the letter himself. “He dictated that whole letter. I didn’t write that letter,” Bornstein told CNN. “I just made it up as I went along.” Trump has been Bornstein’s patient since 1980, according to the doctor’s original letter.
Originally published on Motherly By Katie Novak When my oldest son, Torin, was born, I had an idea of when he should take his first steps, say his first words, and identify the diggers in My Big Truck book. Every time he did not meet a milestone, I worried. Why wasn’t he pulling himself up yet? When would he say his first word? How does he not know what an excavator is? This same child really understands people. When I was watching “Steel Magnolias” with a box of tissues, he crawled on my lap and rubbed my back. Strangers fell in love with him at the grocery store with his huge gummy smile, and at play dates other children naturally gravitated toward him, pushing action heroes into his hands as he smiled and babbled. What was a mother to do? My answer: Take a deep breath and a warm bath. All our kids have amazing strengths, and when we acknowledge them, we realize that all our kids will be okay. Now that I’m a mom of four little ones and an educator, I embrace the concept of “variability” and so I’m able to let go of those pesky comparisons and celebrate all my kids and their strengths. The universal truth is that all of our kids have a unique mix of strengths and weaknesses from the time they are babies. That magical combination, and their own individual timeline, is what makes them who they are. That is variability, and it’s a beautiful thing. Milestones were defined for the “average” toddler — someone who does not exist. All of our kids have strengths and are wildly intelligent in different ways. Certainly, they may need support to build some skills as they have weaknesses (as we all do!), but it’s a lot easier to build skills when strengths are applied to that journey. One way to appreciate the concept of variability is to understand the theory of multiple intelligences. Dr. Howard Gardner, a renowned professor at Harvard University, proposed eight different types of intelligences because “intelligence” is far too limiting a concept. When we realize all the different types of strengths our kids have, it can help us to celebrate our kids and push the milestones to the back of our minds. Instead of worrying about what our kids can’t do (which is so tempting!), it’s important to celebrate how they are incredibly smart in their own ways! You may have a child, for example, who struggles to meet a walking milestone, but is incredibly empathetic and is able to connect with people. Being “people smart” is a talent that should continue to be fostered and valued, because it’s a skill that will take them far. Related: The milestones you didn’t realize would matter—until they did So, what are the eight intelligences? 1. Linguistic and verbal intelligence (good with words) These babies talk early, experiment with language by babbling and making up songs and stories, and are early readers. They love telling stories and listening to stories read to them! As an example, my husband’s name is Lon. When my daughter, Aylin, was less than a year old, she saw a lawnmower and bounced around screaming, “Daddy mower, daddy mower.” She continues to have a way with words and at 6 years old is experimenting with sarcasm (lucky me). 2. Logical intelligence (good atmathand solving logic problems) Maybe your little one isn’t talking yet, but he’s a phenom at puzzles, putting together huge block structures, and figuring out how to get his paci from on top of the refrigerator. If this is true, you’re probably raising a future engineer who will always be able to use that intelligence to think critically and solve problems. 3. Spatial intelligence (good with pictures) Do you have a little artist on your hands? These little ones love drawing and they recognize where they’ve been when you’re on a walk (“That’s the blue house we saw with the little squirrel yesterday!”). These pumpkins also love looking at picture books and family photos. 4. Body and movement intelligence (good at sports and movement) My son Brecan was an early walker (he walked at 9 months, and his twin sister didn’t get off her bottom until 15 months!), rode a bike without training wheels at two, and has a running gait like a marathon star. His balance is exceptional, and he picks up sports easily. You may have a child who isn’t a reader yet, but he’s a star at Lil’ Kickers Soccer. Good for him! 5. Musical intelligence (good at music and rhythm) Is your little lady a star in your music together class? Does she make instruments out of pots and pans and love to sing songs in the bathtub? If so, she’s probably a budding Mozart with a gift for music. Foster that as you’re working on the skills that may not come as easily! 6. Interpersonal intelligence (good with people and communication) When I was little, my mom used to say that I could talk a dog off a meat wagon. These kids are just good with people. They are outgoing, can converse with strangers, and are probably never upset when you drop them off at daycare because they have so many friends to play with. They are our charmers! 7. Intrapersonal intelligence (self-smart) Some kids are great at reading their own emotions and thinking deeply about them. They are reflective and introspective and always know when they are sad, mad or embarrassed and why. While many of us work to help our kids understand their feelings, some kids are naturally aware. 8. Naturalist intelligence (nature smart) Does your little one stop to look at bugs? Love playing in the mud? Is she always pointing out the window to go outside? If so, she probably has a strong naturalist intelligence and loves to garden, hike and roll in the leaves. So tonight, watch your little one play and consider his or her strengths. Know that these strengths will allow him or her to overcome obstacles and be successful later in life. More from Motherly:
(CNN) What motivated the man who killed two people on a Portland train after shouting anti-Muslim slurs? What prompted the person, or people, who spray-painted the N-word on an NBA star's home What ideas would incite an Israeli teen charged with threatening dozens of Jewish centers in the US, throwing communities into chaos and terrifying the parents of young children? We call them all "hate crimes," as if the same motivation lurks behind each of these disparate incidents. But that term is outdated and inaccurate, experts say. What spurs offenders into action is rarely animosity alone. It's a toxic mix of emotions, from anger to fear to indignation. And, as the FBI says , "hate itself is not a crime." Instead, bias is considered an "added element" to offenses like murder, arson and vandalism, leading at times to longer prison sentences. The public and prosecutors often disagree on what constitutes a hate crime. Besieged minorities like Muslims and transgender people often see an assault on one of them as an attack on their entire community, especially in this era of intense rancor and fear. Between the November election and February, for instance, the Southern Poverty Law Center counted more than 1,300 "hate incidents" across the country. But how do prosecutors determine the role hate had in a given crime? For more than two decades, the FBI and other law enforcement agencies have relied on a somewhat obscure study to help spot bias in criminal offenses. In 1993, Jack McDevitt and Jack Levin, two social scientists in Boston, examined 169 hate-crime case files at the Boston Police Department. They then interviewed victims, offenders and investigators. McDevitt and Levin found that there are four main kinds of hate crimes, ranging from thrill-seekers, the most common; to "mission-offenders," the rare but often lethal hardcore hatemongers. Knowing the differences between the types of hate crimes -- and their motivations -- not only helps law enforcement better understand them, McDevitt said, it also helps find perpetrators and put them in prison. "If they know the motivation," he told CNN, "they know where to look." Here are the four categories of hate-crimes, along with some examples, many of which are hypotheticals taken from the FBI's training manual on recognizing and collecting data on hate crimes: Thrill-seeking These hate crimes are often driven by an immature itch for excitement and drama. Think bored and drunk young men marauding through neighborhoods, mayhem on their minds. Often there is no real reason for these crimes, experts say. They're committed for the thrill of it, and the victims are vulnerable simply because their sexual, racial, ethnic, gender or religious background differs from that of their attackers. Often the attackers think society doesn't care about the victims -- or worse, will applaud their assault. The attackers may be young, but they are dangerous. In McDevitt's study, 70% of these "thrill offenses" were assaults, including vicious beatings that put victims in the hospital. That said, the attackers' animosity toward their victims, who are chosen at random, can be relatively low, which at least offers the opportunity for rehabilitation. Examples: A group of teens breaks into an LGBT center, destroys property and scrawls anti-gay graffiti on the walls. A street gang assaults a Hindu man while yelling anti-Hindu epithets. A group of men viciously attack men leaving a well-known gay bar, yelling "Sissy!" and "Girlie-man!" Defensive In these hate crimes, the attackers sees themselves as "defending" their turf: their neighborhood, their workplace, their religion or their country. Unlike thrill-seekers, who invade other neighborhoods and attack without warning, "defenders" target specific victims and justify their crimes as necessary to keep threats at bay. Many times, they are triggered by a particular event, such as a Muslim or black family moving into a new neighborhood. Like thrill-seekers, the "defenders" show little or no remorse for their attacks and believe that most, if not all of society supports them but is too afraid to act. "They honestly believe that what they're doing has some sort of communal assent," said Brian Levin, who leads the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino. Examples: A group home for people with psychiatric disabilities is set on fire by a man heard to say, "I'll get rid of those crazies." A transgender woman is attacked near her home by men who yell, "We don't want no queers in this neighborhood!" A Japanese man is attacked by a white man who called him an anti-Asian epithet and complained that the Japanese are taking jobs away from Americans. Retaliatory These hate crimes are often seen as revenge, whether in response to personal slights, other hate crimes or terrorism. The "avengers," who often act alone, target members of the racial, ethnic or religious group who they believe committed the original crime -- even if the victims had nothing to do with it. They care only about revenge, and they will travel to the victims' territory to enact it. These eye-for-an-eye attacks spike after acts of terrorism, a bitter backlash that often targets Muslim Americans. After the 9/11 attacks, for example, hate crimes against Arabs and Muslims rose by 1,600%. A similar spike occurred after the Paris attacks in 2015. Occasionally, members of the same religion or racial group target each other. Ohio prosecutors, for example, charged members of a breakaway Amish sect with hate crimes after they violently cut off the beards of a rival sect. An appeals court overturned the hate crimes conviction, though, ruling that religion had been a significant but not prime motivation behind the assaults. Examples: A woman fires gun shots into the men's locker room of a fitness center, saying she hates men for rejecting her. Hours after Islamic extremists launch a terrorist attack in Europe, someone defaces an American mosque with graffiti that says "Go home, terrorists!" Mission offenders These are the deadliest -- and rarest -- types of hate crimes. They are committed by people who consider themselves "crusaders," often for a racial or religious cause. Their mission: total war against members of a rival race or religion. They are often linked to groups that share their racist views. Mission offenders write lengthy manifestos explaining their views, visit websites steeped in hate speech and violent imagery, and travel to target symbolically significant sites while seeking to maximize carnage. "Mission offenders believe that the system is rigged against them, which means that they can justify excessive violence against innocents," said Levin. These hate crimes can look a lot like terrorism, and scholars say mission offenses often overlap both definitions, as in the case of a Muslim man who killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando last year. Former President Barack Obama called the massacre both "an act of terror and an act of hate." Examples: Mission offenders tend to become infamous. According to criminologists, they include Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh, Charleston church shooter Dylan Roof and Omar Mateen, who massacred 49 people at gay nightclub in Orlando. What can be done? McDevitt acknowledges limits to these categories. Crimes rarely fit cleanly into one or the other. "Some people have multiple motivations. They may feel 'defensive,' but also that it's fun to go and harass someone." Edward Dunbar, a psychologist who has written widely about hate crimes, said the categories are valuable for training police and prosecutors but can't predict or prevent bias-motivated attacks. "To assess patterns of violence, or look at issues like capacity to benefit from rehabilitation, or to consider the evidence of premeditation, the typology is not the way to go." Still, the categories help communities learn how to respond to hate crimes, McDevitt and other experts say. Many hate-crime offenders believe that society supports their violent prejudices. The Internet, with its hives of hate groups, has fed that feeling, especially with the ascendancy of the alt-right during the 2016 presidential election. It's crucial for communities -- and politicians -- to clearly and unequivocally condemn hate crimes. McDevitt said that when he interviewed victims, they tended to want three things: 1) A statement from public officials denouncing the crime and the beliefs that inspired it. 2) For law officers to take the crime -- and their duty to protect the vulnerable -- seriously. 3) For communities to value them and make clear they don't share the animosity that triggered the hate crimes. In other words, behind every hate crime is a message: You are not welcome here. Behind every strong community is another: Yes, you are.
(CNN) California's insurance commissioner has launched an investigation into Aetna after learning a former medical director for the insurer admitted under oath he never looked at patients' records when deciding whether to approve or deny care. California Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones expressed outrage after CNN showed him a transcript of the testimony and said his office is looking into how widespread the practice is within Aetna. "If the health insurer is making decisions to deny coverage without a physician actually ever reviewing medical records, that's of significant concern to me as insurance commissioner in California -- and potentially a violation of law," he said. Aetna, the nation's third-largest insurance provider with 23.1 million customers, told CNN it looked forward to "explaining our clinical review process" to the commissioner. The California probe centers on a deposition by Dr. Jay Ken Iinuma, who served as medical director for Aetna for Southern California from March 2012 to February 2015, according to the insurer. During the deposition, the doctor said he was following Aetna's training, in which nurses reviewed records and made recommendations to him. Jones said his expectation would be "that physicians would be reviewing treatment authorization requests," and that it's troubling that "during the entire course of time he was employed at Aetna, he never once looked at patients' medical records himself." "It's hard to imagine that in that entire course in time, there weren't any cases in which a decision about the denial of coverage ought to have been made by someone trained as a physician, as opposed to some other licensed professional," Jones told CNN. "That's why we've contacted Aetna and asked that they provide us information about how they are making these claims decisions and why we've opened this investigation." The insurance commissioner said Californians who believe they may have been adversely affected by Aetna's decisions should contact his office Members of the medical community expressed similar shock, saying Iinuma's deposition leads to questions about Aetna's practices across the country. "Oh my God. Are you serious? That is incredible," said Dr. Anne-Marie Irani when told of the medical director's testimony. Irani is a professor of pediatrics and internal medicine at the Children's Hospital of Richmond at VCU and a former member of the American Board of Allergy and Immunology's board of directors. "This is potentially a huge, huge story and quite frankly may reshape how insurance functions," said Dr. Andrew Murphy, who, like Irani, is a renowned fellow of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology. He recently served on the academy's board of directors. The Gillen Washington case Gillen Washington, 23, says he hopes to force change at Aetna. The deposition by Aetna's former medical director came as part of a lawsuit filed against Aetna by a college student who suffers from a rare immune disorder. The case is expected to go to trial later this week in California Superior Court. Gillen Washington, 23, is suing Aetna for breach of contract and bad faith, saying he was denied coverage for an infusion of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) when he was 19. His suit alleges Aetna's "reckless withholding of benefits almost killed him." Aetna has rejected the allegations, saying Washington failed to comply with their requests for blood work. Washington, who was diagnosed with common variable immunodeficiency, or CVID, in high school, became a new Aetna patient in January 2014 after being insured by Kaiser. Aetna initially paid for his treatments after each infusion, which can cost up to $20,000. But when Washington's clinic asked Aetna to pre-authorize a November 2014 infusion, Aetna says it was obligated to review his medical record. That's when it saw his last blood work had been done three years earlier for Kaiser. Despite being told by his own doctor's office that he needed to come in for new blood work, Washington failed to do so for several months until he got so sick he ended up in the hospital with a collapsed lung. Once his blood was tested, Aetna resumed covering his infusions and pre-certified him for a year. Despite that, according to Aetna, Washington continued to miss infusions. Washington's suit counters that Aetna ignored his treating physician, who appealed on his behalf months before his hospitalization that the treatment was medically necessary "to prevent acute and long-term problems." "Aetna is blaming me for what happened," Washington told CNN. "I'll just be honest, it's infuriating to me. I want Aetna to be made to change." During his videotaped deposition in October 2016, Iinuma -- who signed the pre-authorization denial -- said he never read Washington's medical records and knew next to nothing about his disorder. Intravenous immunoglobulin can cost as much as $20,000 per treatment. It helps patients like Gillen Washington stave off infection. Questioned about Washington's condition, Iinuma said he wasn't sure what the drug of choice would be for people who suffer from his condition. Iinuma further says he's not sure what the symptoms are for the disorder or what might happen if treatment is suddenly stopped for a patient. "Do I know what happens?" the doctor said. "Again, I'm not sure. ... I don't treat it." Iinuma said he never looked at a patient's medical records while at Aetna. He says that was Aetna protocol and that he based his decision off "pertinent information" provided to him by a nurse. "Did you ever look at medical records?" Scott Glovsky, Washington's attorney, asked Iinuma in the deposition. "No, I did not," the doctor says, shaking his head. "So as part of your custom and practice in making decisions, you would rely on what the nurse had prepared for you?" Glovsky asks. "Correct." Iinuma said nearly all of his work was conducted online. Once in a while, he said, he might place a phone call to the nurse for more details. How many times might he call a nurse over the course of a month? "Zero to one," he said. Glovsky told CNN he had "never heard such explosive testimony in two decades of deposing insurance company review doctors." Aetna's response Aetna defended Iinuma, who is no longer with the company, saying in its legal brief that he relied on his "years of experience" as a trained physician in making his decision about Washington's treatment and that he was following Aetna's Clinical Policy Bulletin appropriately. "Dr. Iinuma's decision was correct," Aetna said in court papers. "Plaintiff has asserted throughout this litigation that Dr. Iinuma had no medical basis for his decision that 2011 lab tests were outdated and that Dr. Iinuma's decision was incorrect. Plaintiff is wrong on both counts." Gillen Washington receives an infusion of the medicine needed to boost his immune system. He calls it "the magic juice." In its trial brief, Aetna said: "Given that Aetna does not directly provide medical care to its members, Aetna needs to obtain medical records from members and their doctors to evaluate whether services are 'medically necessary.' Aetna employs nurses to gather the medical records and coordinate with the offices of treating physicians, and Aetna employs doctors to make the actual coverage-related determinations. "In addition to applying their clinical judgment, the Aetna doctors and nurses use Aetna's Clinical Policy Bulletins ('CPBs') to determine what medical records to request, and whether those records satisfy medical necessity criteria to support coverage. These CPBs reflect the current standard of care in the medical community. They are frequently updated, and are publicly available for any treating physician to review." Jones, the California insurance commissioner, said he couldn't comment specifically on Washington's case, but what drew his interest was the medical director's admission of not looking at patients' medical records. "What I'm responding to is the portion of his deposition transcript in which he said as the medical director, he wasn't actually reviewing medical records," Jones told CNN. He said his investigation will review every individual denial of coverage or pre-authorization during the medical director's tenure to determine "whether it was appropriate or not for that decision to be made by someone other than a physician." If the probe determines that violations occurred, he said, California insurance code sets monetary penalties for each individual violation. CNN has made numerous phone calls to Iinuma's office for comment but has not heard back. Heather Richardson, an attorney representing Aetna, declined to answer any questions. Asked about the California investigation, Aetna gave this written statement to CNN: "We have yet to hear from Commissioner Jones but look forward to explaining our clinical review process. "Aetna medical directors are trained to review all available medical information -- including medical records -- to make an informed decision. As part of our review process, medical directors are provided all submitted medical records, and also receive a case synopsis and review performed by a nurse. "Medical directors -- and all of our clinicians -- take their duties and responsibilities as medical professionals incredibly seriously. Similar to most other clinical environments, our medical directors work collaboratively with our nurses who are involved in these cases and factor in their input as part of the decision-making process." Gillen Washington became emaciated and gravely ill after four months without treatment. 'A huge admission' Dr. Arthur Caplan, founding director of the division of medical ethics at New York University Langone Medical Center, described Iinuma's testimony as "a huge admission of fundamental immorality." "People desperate for care expect at least a fair review by the payer. This reeks of indifference to patients," Caplan said, adding the testimony shows there "needs to be more transparency and accountability" from private, for-profit insurers in making these decisions. Murphy, the former American Academy of Allergy Asthma and Immunology board member, said he was "shocked" and "flabbergasted" by the medical director's admission. "This is something that all of us have long suspected, but to actually have an Aetna medical director admit he hasn't even looked at medical records, that's not good," said Murphy, who runs an allergy and immunology practice west of Philadelphia. "If he has not looked at medical records or engaged the prescribing physician in a conversation -- and decisions were made without that input -- then yeah, you'd have to question every single case he reviewed." Murphy said when he and other doctors seek a much-needed treatment for a patient, they expect the medical director of an insurance company to have considered every possible factor when deciding on the best option for care. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "We run into the prior authorization issues when we are renewing therapy, when the patient's insurance changes or when an insurance company changes requirements," he said. "Dealing with these denials is very time consuming. A great deal of nursing time is spent filling and refilling out paperwork trying to get the patient treatment. "If that does not work, then physicians need to get involved and demand medical director involvement, which may or may not occur in a timely fashion -- or sometimes not at all," he said. "It's very frustrating."
Dapchi, Nigeria (CNN) Under normal circumstances, Leah Sharibu would have shared a special birthday meal with her family under the bamboo covering protecting them from the Sahara desert dust swirling around them at their home in northeast Nigeria. At some point during the celebration, they would have bowed their heads in prayer, asking God to bless Leah on her birthday and to make her dreams come true. But this birthday, her 15th, was different and her family spent the day crying and fervently praying. They don't know where she is. Leah was one of the 110 schoolgirls kidnapped by members of the terrorist group Boko Haram in February from their school in Dapchi, in northeast Nigeria. All the other kidnapped schoolgirls from Dapchi have been freed -- except Leah who her friends say refused to renounce her Christian faith to Boko Haram. Kidnapping of schoolgirls Boko Haram has become notorious for kidnapping young men and women during their nine-year insurgency in northeast Nigeria. More than 100 of the Chibok girls remain in captivity. The terror group has kidnapped more than 1,000 children in the country , famously kidnapping nearly 300 Chibok schoolgirls four years ago.More than 100 of the Chibok girls remain in captivity. Thousands of parents whose children have been taken by Boko Haram never see their children again. Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest Under Operation "Lafiya Dole" -- meaning "peace by any means" in Hausa -- the Nigerian army is working under intense scrutiny to locate and return the stolen Chibok girls to their parents. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest Boko Haram's violent footprint is evident across the vast expanse of Nigeria's northeast, where village after village has been left devastated by the group's fighters. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest What Boko Haram couldn't loot, it burned to the ground. To this day, people remain afraid to return home. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest Frequent attacks from Islamic insurgents have prompted residents to flee their villages and head to Maidugiri where it is, to an extent, safer. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest The city of Maidugiri is at the heart of the military's campaign. Something of a safe haven for many fleeing Boko Haram, it has become an oasis in northeastern Nigeria, where around 2.5 million displaced people now reside. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest The region's soft sand is ideal for hiding improvised explosive devices, or IEDs. This means the military must travel in heavily armored convoys with mine-proof trucks providing protection from the front. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest Empty ammunition cases litter the ground, untouched since they flew from the machine guns used in a skirmish between the Nigerian army and Boko Haram fighters. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest The operation's "theater commander" Maj. Gen. Leo Irabor tells CNN that while he is proud of his men's achievements in pushing back Boko Haram, they are in need of more international support to quash the insurgents. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest A vehicle full of troops scans the horizon scouting for any indication of insurgent presence. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Penetrating Boko Haram's stronghold: The Sambisa Forest The terrain in the northeast is unforgiving and troops face dehydration in the blistering heat while on patrol. Hide Caption 10 of 10 But the Dapchi kidnapping proved to be an exception. In a highly unusual move, the militants returned the schoolgirls in March to their hometown after negotiations with the Nigerian government. The terrorists reportedly told parents, as they returned the hostages, not to allow their daughters to go back to school . They said, "boko is haram" (loosely translated as Western education is forbidden). 'She refused to convert to Islam' Rebecca, Leah's mother, recalled how the overjoyed parents celebrated the sudden and unexpected return of their daughters after one month away. Rebecca, 45 said she waited patiently as each parent was reunited with their daughter. It suddenly dawned on her that Leah was not among the group of girls released. "Where is Leah?" she asked anxiously. One of the freed girls told her that Leah had been left behind. "She refused to convert to Islam," another told her. That was the moment Rebecca's world came crashing down around her. She collapsed and was rushed to the hospital. Even now, her health problems persist. Visit to Dapchi Ten days ago, I visited Rebecca in Dapchi. Rebecca says no other journalist had ever come to see her, so she was surprised when I showed up at her doorstep and even more surprised when she learned I had traveled more than 2,000 miles from Senegal to see her. Rebecca Sharibu, the mother of kidnapped Dapchi girl Leah Sharibu. We exchanged pleasantries as I set up my camera. She sat on a low wooden stump. A young woman could be heard in the back pounding yam in a mortar, she had a baby tightly strapped to her back with a colorful cloth. It is obvious from looking at Rebecca that she is still not fully healthy, physically nor mentally. Her eyes were in a daze, surrounded by drooping skin and deeply-etched lines. Her breaths came in haggard waves. She twisted the corners of her mouth downwards in a permanent frown. Slowly, she began to speak. "They said she should turn to Muslim before she enter motor and then she said she would never do that," she told me, looking down at one of Leah's photos. She describes Leah as hardworking and quiet, a girl who enjoyed going to church. She sang in the choir. The local pastor, Daniel Auta, said Leah had a beautiful voice, soft and melodic. "When my daughter comes back, I will not allow her to go to that school again," Rebecca said. The girls high school in Dapchi is not far from Rebecca's home. Outside the campus, soldiers are posted at the main gate and members of a volunteer vigilante force posted at the other. On the day the abduction happened, there was no security at the gate. The school recently opened again but none of the abducted Dapchi girls have resumed their education, although 20 of them were given scholarships to a neighboring private school in partnership with UNICEF. Broken windows The Dapchi school was established nearly 40 years ago. The classrooms are in poor shape, with gaping holes in the tiled floors and broken windows everywhere. There's not much running water and the dorms where the female students live don't even have beds. It is hard to comprehend that more than 900 young girls were learning in these dire conditions Rebecca said no official from the Nigerian government has even visited her. "Only Christian organizations have been coming to see us. No one from government. We are on our own," she said. When CNN contacted Nigerian presidential aide Femi Adesina about her comments, he referred CNN to the Yobe State governor office. The state office in turn referred us to speak with the federal government about the family's concerns when they were contacted by CNN. In April, the Nigerian government said a disagreement between members of Boko Haram had caused a breakdown in negotiation talks for the release of remaining schoolgirls in the group's captivity. At the far end of the bungalow is Leah's bedroom. The empty room is a painful reminder and casts a dark shadow as the family walk past it daily for the past 85 days. Leah's brother, Nathaniel junior, came to sit beside his mother. Together, they sat in silence, wondering if they would ever see Leah again.
Liege, Belgium (CNN) A man who killed two policewomen and a bystander in the eastern Belgian city of Liege on Tuesday is suspected of killing someone the day before, according to the country's federal prosecutor's office. The perpetrator -- named as 31-year-old Belgian national Benjamin H. -- was serving a jail term for theft, violence, drug abuse and insubordination to police, the spokesperson for the Belgian Federal Prosecutor's Office, Eric Van Der Sypt, said Wednesday. He had been let out of prison on a temporary release, Van Der Sypt said. According to the terms of his parole, he had been expected to return to jail on Monday night at 7:30 p.m. (2:30 p.m ET) but failed to sign in. Instead, Belgian authorities now also suspect him of committing a burglary and then killing his accomplice. On Tuesday morning, the man stabbed two policewomen from behind before stealing their service weapons and using them to kill the officers. The attacker then opened fire on a parked vehicle nearby, killing the driver inside. Read More
(CNN) A Russian journalist and critic of the Kremlin, reported to have been shot dead in Ukraine , showed up alive at a news conference on Wednesday to declare that his murder was faked by Ukrainian security services in an effort to foil an assassination plot against him. In a stunning development, Arkady Babchenko, 41, walked into a room of journalists in Kiev who had been expecting to get an update on his slaying. He apologized to his wife, Olechka -- who on Tuesday was reported to have found him bleeding to death at his apartment -- for the "hell" she had gone through. Ukrainian officials offered a jaw-dropping explanation for his so-called death: to expose a Russian plot against him. Two people, suspected of being the person who ordered the hit and the potential assassin, are in the custody of the security services, spokeswoman for the Ukraine Prosecutor General, Larisa Sargan, said later Wednesday. The elaborate ruse raised many questions. Chief among them, why was it necessary to go to such extraordinary lengths to expose the plot, who was in on it, and what did Olechka Babchenko really see when she found the bleeding body of her husband? At the news conference on Wednesday, none of these was addressed. Instead, flanked by Ukranian security officials, wearing a hoodie and occasionally flashing a sheepish smile, Babchenko launched into an explanation of the ploy. Babchenko (center) appears at a news conference Wednesday afternoon. He said Ukranian officials first told him about the threat against him, and their elaborate plan to thwart it, a month ago. Babchenko said he became convinced that Russian government agencies were involved in the alleged plot when he was shown his passport photo and personal documents, which he said could have been accessed by Russian special services. "An offer was made to take part in this special operation," Babchenko said. "I had no choice but to cooperate." The Security Service of Ukraine, or SBU, later revealed more details about the alleged plot. According to a statement released by the SBU, Russian special services recruited a Ukrainian citizen -- identified only as "G" -- who was tasked with finding, for a payment, perpetrators for a number of high-impact terrorist acts, including the assassination of Babchenko. "He proposed to his friend, a former member of the ATO in the east of Ukraine, to execute, for $30,000, the contract kill on a Russian journalist, Arkady Babchenko. He has already transferred a deposit of $15,000," said Vasyl Hrytsak. According to the SBU, "G" also received a dossier on Babchenko with detailed information about his journalistic work and private life, including data on the target himself, his wife, children and parents. Information included phone numbers, bank account details and passport data, the SBU said. "G" faces a number of accusations, including aiding in the commitment of a terrorist act and endangering the life or health of a person to violate public safety. A pretrial investigation is underway. At times during the news conference, Babchenko seemed emotional. 'Anti-Russian provocation' Only a day earlier, Ukranian authorities claimed they had launched an investigation into Babchenko's death and even released a sketch of the suspected killer. Police claimed he was shot in the back and died in an ambulance, citing his friend and supervisor, Ayder Muzhdabaev, deputy general manager of Ukrainian TV channel ATR. Ukraine blamed Russia for his "death." Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko congratulated security services on a "brilliant operation" in "saving the life" of Babchenko. On his official Twitter account, Poroshenko said Ukrainian law enforcement agencies are becoming "stronger in counteraction to Russian aggression." He later met Babchenko, embracing the journalist, and posted footage of the encounter on Twitter. The affair seemed unlikely to improve the frosty relations between Russia and Ukraine. In a statement , the Russian Foreign Ministry described the operation as "obviously calculated propaganda" and "anti-Russian provocation." "We state that the questions of life and death in Ukraine, as well as the international community's confidence in Ukraine's policy, are nothing more than bargaining chips for the anti-Russian hysteria of the Kiev regime," the statement said. Vladimir Dzhabarov, Deputy Chairman of the International Affairs Committee of Russian Federation Council, told state media outlet RIA Novosti that Kiev is now "disgraced in the eyes of the whole world." Arkady Babchenko covering unrest in Kiev in 2014. 'I apologize for what you had to go through' During the news conference Wednesday, Babchenko thanked the Ukrainian security services for saving his life. He also apologized to his wife and all those who believed he had been killed -- but said the secrecy had been unavoidable. "I would like to apologize for what you all had to go through ... because I've buried friends and colleagues many times, and I know it's a sickening-vomiting feeling when you have to bury your colleagues," he said. "Also I would like to apologize to my wife for the hell she went through in those two days. Olechka, I'm sorry, but there were no options here, either." He described how he first claimed to have broken his leg and then was requested to "disappear somewhere" in the weeks leading up to the staged murder, in a bid to thwart the assassins. Speaking to CNN, a journalist and colleague of Babchenko, Simon Ostrovsky, described Wednesday's revelation as "totally shocking and unprecedented." "For those of us who know Arkady personally, this is something that we're going to have to process for a little while longer," he said. Kateryna Lisunova, an acquaintance of Babchenko who works in New York as a special correspondent for Ukrainian television station Pryamiy, was in the ATR newsroom in Kiev to watch the news conference and posted a video on Facebook of people clapping, cheering and jumping as Babchenko appeared. The Committee to Protect Journalists, which had earlier decried Babchenko's "murder," expressed relief that he was alive but demanded answers from the Ukranian authorities. "We are relieved that Arkady Babchenko is alive," said Nina Ognianova, CPJ's Europe and Central Asia program coordinator. "Ukrainian authorities must now disclose what necessitated the extreme measure of staging news of the Russian journalist's murder." Flowers lie under a picture of Babchenko placed on the memorial wall of Moscow's journalists house before he was revealed to be alive. Babchenko 'no longer felt safe' in Russia News of the apparent murder had stunned Kiev on Tuesday. Shortly after Babchenko's death was announced, Moscow and Kiev began blaming each other for the killing of the journalist, who is a vocal critic of the Kremlin and left Russia in 2017, saying he no longer felt safe. Ukrainian Prime Minister Volodymyr Groysman implied Russia had orchestrated the "killing" of Babchenko, while Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed that idea and slammed Ukraine as an unsafe place for journalists to work. On Wednesday Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said the affair was a propaganda exercise by Ukraine, but that she was happy Babchenko was alive. Babchenko left Russia after he criticized the Kremlin in a Facebook post in 2017. He faced backlash after commenting on the crash of a Russian plane transporting the world-famous military choir Alexandrov Ensemble en route to Syria. They were traveling to perform for pilots involved in Russia's air campaign on Aleppo. Babchenko called Russia an aggressor, and accused the country of killing children in its air support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's regime.
Michelle Obama is the first lady of the United States. The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers. Watch CNN Films' "We Will Rise: Michelle Obama's Mission to Educate Girls Around the World" on CNNgo. Neither of my parents and hardly anyone in the neighborhood where I grew up went to college. But thanks to a lot of hard work and plenty of financial aid, I had the opportunity to attend some of the finest universities in this country. That education opened so many doors and gave me the confidence to pursue my ambitions and have a voice in the world. For me, education was power. And a few years ago, when I had the honor of meeting Malala Yousafzai , who was shot in the head just for trying to go to school, this issue got really personal for me. I saw that the terrorists who nearly killed her were trying to silence her voice, snuff out her ambitions, and take away her power. That's why I decided to work on global girls' education as first lady: because right now, there are tens of millions of girls like Malala in every corner of the globe who are not in school -- girls who are so bright, hardworking and hungry to learn. And that's really the mission of the Let Girls Learn initiative we launched last year: It's a global effort to give these girls the education they need to fulfill their potential and lift up their families, communities and countries. Now, as first lady, I have no budget of my own for programs, and I have no authority to make or pass laws. That's why, when we first launched Let Girls Learn, many folks doubted that we could make a real impact on this global issue. But over the past year and a half, we've established partnerships with some of the world's largest companies and organizations that are committing money, resources and expertise. We're collaborating with countries like Canada, Mexico and the Nordic countries on girls' education efforts. Countries like Japan, South Korea, and the United Kingdom have collectively pledged nearly $600 million. The United States is investing over a billion dollars through new and ongoing efforts and running Let Girls Learn programs in more than 50 countries. The World Bank Group will be investing $2.5 billion over the next five years. And through social media campaigns, Let Girls Learn has rallied people across America and across the globe to step up and be champions for girls worldwide. All this is happening because time and again, whether it's a head of state, a corporate CEO, or a 15-year-old girl here in the United States, when people hear the stories of girls who aren't in school, they want to help. That's why CNN's new film on global girls' education, "We Will Rise," airing for the first time this week, is so critically important -- because it tells these girls' stories. This powerful film chronicles the lives of some of the girls I visited this past summer in Liberia and Morocco, two countries in Africa where many girls struggle to get an education. I was joined in my travels by the actors and activists Meryl Streep and Freida Pinto , who are also passionate about girls' education, as well as CNN anchor Isha Sesay JUST WATCHED Why young girls in Morocco are missing school Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why young girls in Morocco are missing school 01:48 Together, we sat down with girls in both countries to discuss the barriers they face and the dreams they hold for their futures. Like so many girls around the world, many of these girls come from families struggling with poverty. Some endure dangerous commutes to and from school each day. Others face cultural pressures to drop out, marry young and start having children of their own. But these girls have big plans for their lives. They want to attend college and become doctors, teachers, engineers, entrepreneurs; and day after day, they do whatever it takes to get the education they need to fulfill their dreams. They get up before dawn, and spend hours harvesting crops, cooking for their families and tending to their younger siblings before heading to class. After school, they work as maids and in factories, and they study for hours late into the night. JUST WATCHED She studies and dares to dream Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH She studies and dares to dream 00:52 I hope you will be as moved by their stories as I was -- and I hope you'll visit LetGirlsLearn.gov to learn more about how you can take action to help girls like them worldwide go to school.
J.J. McCullough is an editorial cartoonist and writer. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) Thursday is National Granola Bar Day (and National Hug Day). Saturday is even better: National Pie Day. And next Friday it's National Puzzle Day. I don't know about you, but it seems like in the last couple of years we've been getting more and more "holidays" that we've never heard of. To name just a few: Raccoon Appreciation Day, National Oreo Cookie Day, Ninja Day and National Hat Day. At least on International Coffee Day , designated September 29, the flurry of social media zingers included free coffee at places such as Dunkin' Donuts and Krispy Kreme. You might be tempted to think there's way too many phony-baloney faux holidays cooked up by people with way too much time on their hands. But, frankly, I think we need a lot more. Here are my nominees. What are yours? Share your ideas at the comments section below or through Twitter and Facebook
If you’re looking for a way to take story time up a notch with the kids in your life, why not turn to astronauts? That’s the premise of Story Time from Space, a project from the nonprofit Global Space Education Foundation that features astronauts reading beloved children’s books from the International Space Station. T2 Science & Math Education Story Time from Space is a project that features astronauts reading children's books from the International Space Station. Patricia Tribe, the former director of education at Space Center Houston who came up with the basis for the project, told HuffPost that the thought of merging space and reading came up after she did some research on literacy and science skills in the United States. She decided to merge STEM and literacy in a way that’s easily accessible for kids. “What better role models to engage kids in science and to engage them in reading?” she said. “You’re not only looking and listening to the books, you’re looking around the International Space Station.” Story Time from Space began with a pilot test from astronaut Benjamin Alvin Drew Jr., also known as Alvin Drew, who helped co-found the initiative with Tribe. He read Max Goes to the Moon, a book by astrophysicist and author Jeffrey Bennett, on the final flight of the space shuttle Discovery. Since the project’s official launch, other stories that have been told from space include Next Time You See a Sunset by Emily Morgan and Rosie Revere, Engineer by Andrea Beaty. The footage of the reading sessions are available on the Story Time from Space site and YouTube. Watch astronaut Kate Rubins read Rosie Revere, Engineer below. The Story Time from Space team, which includes astronauts, scientists, educators and others, has important guidelines when it comes to choosing the books. They have to be “neat” books that can be read in about 15 minutes, involve some sort of concept regarding STEM and, most important, be accurate. “We don’t want to perpetuate any misinformation,” Tribe said. The team members sometimes receive books from authors who want to be considered for the reading sessions. They also keep up with various lists and recommendations involving STEM-focused children’s books. When they have a group of books to consider, the team discusses why a title should or shouldn’t be part of a launch. One thing the team keeps in mind is having books that cover a wide range of age groups. T2 Science & Math Education The selected books include Jeffrey Bennett's work about a dog named Max who loves space, among many other titles.
(CNN) Senior North Korean official Kim Yong Chol met with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in New York Wednesday, ahead of a potential summit in Singapore between the leaders of the two countries next month. Kim, the most senior North Korean official to visit the US in 18 years, was seen exiting the Corinthian building in Manhattan at around 8.30 p.m., following a dinner with Pompeo, America's chief diplomat. The meeting came as the two sides look to revive the prospects of an on-again off-again summit between US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, originally scheduled for June 12 but later canceled by Trump. In a tweet posted to Mike Pompeo's official Twitter account, the Secretary of State described the meeting as a "good working dinner" noting that "steak, corn and cheese" was on menu. A senior State Department official described Wednesday's meeting as an opportunity for the two sides to begin outlining both the content of the proposed summit as well as what needs to be done to make it happen. The meeting, which is thought to have lasted around 90 minutes, is the third between the two men following Pompeo's two trips to Pyongyang earlier this year. Both sides have now laid out what they want from the potential summit, the State Department official said, suggesting that pre-summit talks will now focus on finding a viable path towards North Korean denuclearization. The issue of denuclearization, long a sticking point between the two countries, could yet derail plans for any potential Trump-Kim meeting, as US officials attempt to outline their summit preconditions. Kim Yong Chol is the highest level North Korean official to visit to the United States in 18 years. "We are looking for something historic. We are looking for something that has never been done before," said the official. What precisely that means remains unclear, but the North Korean regime has historically shown an unwillingness to relinquish its nuclear capabilities, which it views as a guarantee of survival. According to the official, Pompeo's meeting is part of a renewed effort by the US to convince North Korean officials that denuclearization will result in a "brighter future" for their country. Previously, the US has floated the idea of providing the North with economic assistance and sanctions relief should it agree to a timetable for abandoning its nuclear weapons program. 'We will be ready' Prior to Kim's arrival in New York, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said that the Trump administration was still aiming for a June 12 summit meeting. Referring to denuclearization, Sanders said that, "as long as that is part of the discussion, we're going to focus on the June 12" date. "We are preparing and expect that to take place on June 12 and if not," she said, "we'll be ready on July 12." The high-level meeting was intended to help convince the North Korean delegation that denuclearization will result in a "brighter future." Pompeo and Kim's high-level meeting comes amid a flurry of diplomatic activity on both sides of the Pacific. Over the weekend, Kim Jong Un called an impromptu second meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-In at the Demilitarized Zone that separates the two countries and reiterated his apparent commitment to denuclearization. This was followed Monday by preparatory summit talks between US diplomats and North Korean officials, also at the Demilitarized Zone. The official dinner menu featured traditional American staples such as beef and corn. On Wednesday a source familiar with US-North Korean relations revealed that the visiting US delegation, led by Philippines Ambassador Sung Kim, had extended its stay "for at least another day." Meanwhile, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov arrived in Pyongyang Thursday for meetings with his North Korean counterpart, Ri Yong Ho. Lavrov is the latest in a string of high-level meetings staged by North Korea following years of isolation, as it looks to build alliances and strengthen its negotiating position ahead of the possible June 12 summit. Earlier this month, Kim Jong Un traveled to the northeastern Chinese city of Dalian to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping, the second meeting between the two leaders since March. North Korean diplomat Kim Yong Chol shakes hands with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. About turn Wednesday's meeting between Pompeo and Kim represents a remarkable turn-around given that the talks nearly fell apart last week when Trump said he was calling off the June 12 meeting in Singapore. The White House said in a background briefing that North Korean officials hadn't answered their calls, frustrating their attempts to plan for the meeting. But they also complained about a senior North Korean foreign ministry official's comments after he dismissed Vice President Mike Pence as a "political dummy." Pence had drawn a comparison between the administration's hopes for North Korea and the "Libya model," which could be a reference to starkly different things. It could be read as a way for the country to divest itself of nuclear weapons, or seen as a reference to the overthrowing and killing of Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi. Kim Yong Chol is a powerful surrogate for Kim Jong Un. The vice chairman of North Korea's Party Central Committee, he is the top official in charge of relations between North and South Korea and has been present in all recent high-level meetings with South Korea. He is also a former head of North Korea's Reconnaissance Bureau, an espionage and special operations organization. He is believed to have been involved in a torpedo attack that sank the South Korean warship Cheonan in 2010, killing 46 South Korean sailors. Clarification: This article has been updated to clarify a US delegation is staying in South Korea for at least an extra day. It's not clear if they will extend their meetings with North Korean officials.
LONDON, Ont. — Doug Ford says he isn't breaking a promise to release a fully costed platform because a list of his pledges contains dollar figures beside each item. Speaking in London, Ont., a week before the provincial election, Ontario's Progressive Conservative leader defended his party's decision to quietly release a compilation of their campaign promises without saying how they would pay for them. "I'm not breaking my promise at all — we have a dollar figure right beside every single item," he said. "We're the only party that's fiscally responsible. We're the only party that is accurate." Ford has said he would hire an auditing firm and find billions of dollars in "efficiencies," but the plan doesn't indicate what those would be. He also says a Tory government would run deficits for the first two or three years, but the plan also doesn't spell out the size of those deficits or a path to balance. Some economists said the plan leaves many questions unanswered, particularly when it comes to tackling the province's deficit. Don Drummond, an economist at Queen's University who was previously appointed by the Liberals to examine government spending, said voters who value fiscal discipline should find the Tory plan "very worrying." "The only source of savings in this is this four per cent across-the-board spending cut, which delivers $6 billion a year," he said. "I think that itself is highly dubious, but let's just assume that that's in place. These spending initiatives far exceed $6 billion." Drummond said there is no doubt in his mind that the plan would lead to a larger deficit than the Liberal or NDP platforms. "So the net impact of this plan — I won't call it a platform — is actually to increase whatever the underlying deficit is," he said. "The other ones, like them or not — and there's lots of things not to like about them — at least you've got a pretty good idea of what they're proposing to do. This one you don't." Kevin Page, former budgetary officer for the government of Canada and now president of the Institute of Fiscal Studies and Democracy in Ottawa, said that while none of the parties has presented fiscally prudent plans, the Tories at least had a transparent platform under their previous leader, Patrick Brown. Ford, he said, doesn't appear to have a good grasp of what a costed platform is. "This is quite different. The platform they released in the fall, you'd have to give it pretty good marks for transparency and the work that they did on costing. You can't do that with what we (see) on the website," he said. "There's no way anyone can add up the numbers that are just line by line throughout the various policy envelopes and get anything that suggests they can get back to balance over the next three to five years. It's going in the opposite direction." The Liberals and NDP have also warned that Ford's "efficiencies" would really mean deep cuts to public services such as healthcare and education. Ford has consistently said he could find those savings without laying off a single person — a message he repeated Thursday. "If anything, I'm going to do the contrary," he said. "When the economy starts going and it starts booming in Ontario, we're going to need more nurses, more doctors, more teachers, more police officers, that's what we're going to need."
But he never experienced any like the Mayo camp, which is outside the Sudanese capital of Khartoum. Ten Hoopen was at the camp to photograph a new medical clinic for Emergency, a humanitarian group from Italy. He also hoped to document what life was like for refugees there. His hopes were dashed, however, when he was told he couldn't photograph outside the hospital compound. "I had very, very hard restrictions from the Sudanese government. ... They are very well-skilled in keeping the media at bay," ten Hoopen said. With no freedom of movement, much like the refugees themselves, ten Hoopen resorted to an old trick he had used before while traveling in Africa. With the help of refugee hospital workers, he built a makeshift photo studio using hospital bed sheets and other materials available. Photographer Pieter ten Hoopen The studio quickly became a sensation. Once hospital employees volunteered to have their photo taken, lines of refugees began snaking around the hospital grounds waiting to have their portraits taken. One by one, these people sat solemnly to be photographed. It was their time to be acknowledged. There was gravity, earnestness to the way they posed. This was the moment their story would be registered. "This was one of the reasons why I built the studio: to get more material and more narratives from the people," ten Hoopen said. The project quickly became a catalog of the history and identity of the refugees. The photos span several generations -- some of the subjects were born at the refugee camp, some have been there for decades. Women wearing the traditional Sudanese tobe spell out their class and origin by the way it is wrapped. From the Muslim north, women are fully covered -- a contrast to women from the Christian south, who we also see represented in these photos. Whether from Sudan, South Sudan or Eritrea, the faces become, individually and collectively, a portrait of the endless wars that have shaped the Horn of Africa. Social media Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. The word refugee often conjures up images of faceless crowds fleeing conflict, their existence only registered in terms of statistics and graphs. Ten Hoopen wanted to give his subjects the ability to express themselves freely. "They got very serious, they sat down upright. ... I tried to say as little as possible," he said. "I do believe in their own expressions, their own narrative ... and their unique perspective." The studio had a comforting effect. It was a haven from the hustling and bustling of the camp hospital. It gave the photographer an opportunity to meet his subject matter eye to eye, giving each person their deserved attention. Aesthetically, it created an aura around each person, beaming light on his or her personal narrative. It had some uplifting effects as well. "I always try to put some extra thought to (projects). So I build classic photo studios like they have in any small towns in the African continent or in Europe ... just to give people a little bit of the feeling they are special for a short time and that someone really photographs them in an official way," ten Hoopen said. He said some patients at the hospital "had being laying there for months in their room. ... Then you take them out, it's a little treat to get them out of their own misery. ... That's why you see the line growing, because they see people laughing when they come out of the studio." I build classic photo studios ... just to give people a little bit of the feeling they are special for a short time and that someone really photographs them in an official way. Pieter ten Hoopen Ten-month-old Buseiwa was not laughing when she entered the studio. Having just had a blood test for malaria, she clearly looked uneasy. Gazing to someone who is holding her hand, her eyes connect with this parental figure as a source of strength. Hawa Haranan, 40, came from the war-torn Darfur region before getting a job as a cleaner at the hospital. As she wears a simple tobe, one can almost see the emotions behind her leonine stare. Her life and struggle, as with the other individuals photographed, is accounted for with the testimony of a camera. Ten Hoopen used tilt-shift lenses, which are normally used with the large-format cameras used in classic photography. "I really can appreciate old portraiture ... when people got their portrait taken in a way that was loaded, I think, with respect and it was a very serious moment," he said. "It's a slow way of working where you have to put all your focus into one person sitting in front of you." How did ten Hoopen gain the trust of so many uneasy refugees, some severely traumatized and living in fear? "It wasn't hard," he said. "I just told them to relax and have fun. "Kids sometimes got nervous, and I don't blame them. I am a tall, white, bald European guy. ... I am not only funny to look at, but it is hot in that country so I am usually very red when I am photographing. ... I have tattoos everywhere. ... They thought I was a quite interesting creature."
(CNN) Your stamina -- or the time it takes for you to reach peak exhaustion during exercise -- can be tied to your dementia risk, and a new study reveals how. The study, published Wednesday in the medical journal Neurology , found that women with high cardiovascular fitness, or high stamina, had an 88% lower risk of dementia than women who were moderately fit. "I was not surprised that there was an association, but I was surprised that it was such a strong association between the group with highest fitness and decreased dementia risk," said Helena Hörder, a professor in the Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden, who was first author on the study. Dementia is the name for a group of symptoms caused by disorders that affect the brain , often leading to memory loss or other problems with brain function. Alzheimer's disease , an irreversible and progressive brain disease, is the most common type of dementia. About 5.4 million people in the United States are estimated to be living with Alzheimer's disease , and it is the sixth leading cause of death among all adults, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. About 850,000 people in the United Kingdom have dementia as a whole, according to the UK's National Health Service Worldwide, about 50 million people have dementia, and there are nearly 10 million new cases every year, according to the World Health Organization JUST WATCHED How Alzheimer's disease destroys the brain Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Alzheimer's disease destroys the brain 01:38 The new study involved 191 women in Sweden, 38 to 60 years old, who completed an ergometer cycling test to evaluate their cardiovascular fitness. During the test, the women's workload was measured, based on how much weight or resistance could be added to the bicycle before they became fatigued. "The level that you are so exhausted that you have to interrupt the test is a measure, in watts, of your work capacity," Hörder said. "Cardiovascular fitness or endurance can also be tested in a submaximal test where you don't push the person to maximal capacity." Some of the women had to interrupt their cycling test at submaximal workload, before being pushed to maximal capacity, mainly due to changes seen on an electrocardiograph or due to high blood pressure. Based on their crude peak workload, the women were separated into three groups: Fifty-nine were in the "low fitness" group, 92 were "medium fitness," and 40 were "high fitness." JUST WATCHED How to prevent Alzheimer's disease Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to prevent Alzheimer's disease 03:33 Those cycling tests were conducted in 1968, and the women were followed over a 44-year period until 2012. During that time, the researchers tracked the women's health, taking a close look at who was diagnosed with dementia and who was not. The researchers found that among all of the women, 44 of them (or 23%) developed dementia from 1968 to 2012. Yet among those who interrupted their cycling test at submaximal workload, that percentage jumped to 45%. "Many of those who interrupted the test at submax, very low watt level, probably had indications for a poor cardiovascular health status," Hörder said. "This might indicate that processes in the cardiovascular system might be ongoing many decades before onset of dementia diagnosis." The researchers also found that the average age at dementia onset was 11 years older in the "high fitness" group than in the "medium fitness" group, and the most pronounced risk reduction was seen among those with the highest fitness: "High compared to medium fitness decreased the risk of dementia by 88%," the researchers wrote. The study had some limitations, including that it involved a small sample of women in Sweden. More research is needed to determine whether similar findings would occur in a larger, more diverse group. Also, the findings were not causal. So more research is also needed to determine whether improved fitness could have positive effects on dementia risk and when in life a high fitness level is most important. For instance, other factors could have influenced the findings to help lower dementia risk, regardless of physical activity habits. Genetics or the cognitive stimulation of fitness could have influenced dementia risk, as well as the social aspects of fitness, as loneliness has been linked to dementia "One of the missing pieces of a study like this -- and really the weakness in the literature to date -- is that the kinds of studies that we have mostly seen are association studies. These are studies of correlations, and they can't necessarily talk about causality," said Keith Fargo, director of scientific programs and outreach for the Alzheimer's Association in Chicago, who was not involved in the new study. Still, he said, "the picture that is really emerging from the literature is a picture about the importance of fitness in midlife, not just old age, when it comes to protecting your brain health and preventing or delaying Alzheimer's disease and other dementias." The new study adds to that overall growing body of evidence turning a spotlight on dementia and modifiable risk factors , such as poor cardiovascular health, a sedentary lifestyle, poor diet, smoking or excessive alcohol consumption Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. So people could try to reduce their risk of cognitive decline by engaging in regular cardiovascular exercise , stopping smoking, eating a healthy diet, getting enough sleep, staying socially engaged, challenging their minds by reading or playing games and of course taking care of their heart health, according to the Alzheimer's Association "There's a very strong connection between cardiovascular health -- so the health of your heart and your circulatory system -- and the health of your brain," Fargo said. "The reason for that is because the brain actually is what we would call a highly vascularized organ, meaning that your brain has many blood vessels," he said. "The demand for nutrient-, oxygen-rich blood in the brain is very high compared to other organs, and so anything a person can do to increase their cardiovascular fitness level is likely to have positive benefits on brain health."
One of the 700 movies and TV shows that Netflix still has in its pipeline includes a modern retelling of The Hunchback of Notre Dame from Idris Elba. The “Avengers: Infinity War” actor will star, direct and produce the movie for the streaming service, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Based on a script by Michael Mitnick, the film is being described as “sonic and musical experience” and will feature an original score. Victor Hugo’s classic French novel has seen many screen adaptations, but none more popular than Disney’s 1996 animated film. A darker entry in the Disney canon, the film introduced the story of Quasimodo, a hunchbacked bell-ringer, who falls in love with the gypsy Esmeralda to a whole new generation. Elba has struck gold with Netflix before, earning critical acclaim and a Golden Globe nomination for his role in “Beasts of No Nation.” He’s also set to star and executive produce the upcoming comedy “Turn Up Charlie” about a struggling DJ. The “Luther” actor has stepped behind the camera before, making his feature directorial debut earlier this year with “Yardie,” which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival. And while he has received more attention for his filmmaking, Elba is also a rapper and DJ, most recently making an appearance on Macklemore & Ryan Lewis’ album “This Unruly Mess I’ve Made.” CORRECTION: A previous version of this story indicated Idris Elba acted in “Lucifer” instead of “Luther.”
So what were the most popular opinion articles in the first quarter of 2015? Here are the top 15. Male models at Rick Owens' Paris runway show wore clothes that exposed their private parts. It's getting harder to be outrageous. The group's actions only make sense if you realize that its aim is the apocalypse. A debate over how women's bodies should look as they get older. When Avery Wallace was born, the doctors told his parents, "It's a girl!" Avery says doctors couldn't have been more wrong. Studies show we are helpless to resist sharing positive news over more serious fare. California's Silicon Valley is one of the most prosperous places in the United States. And yet it's also home to child poverty. Papers released in a New York trial show why thousands more Osama bin Laden documents should be released. Left Shark's dance missteps in the Katy Perry Super Bowl halftime merely show a skilled artist losing himself in his character. The burning alive of a Jordanian pilot could prove to have been a strategic error for ISIS. Imagine flying over The Netherlands and seeing fat pixeled images. Commemorating the 100th anniversary of World War I. (Published June, 2014) Thanks, J. Crew ad, but spare me the "age-appropriate" lecture. The tech revolution is wiping out jobs for the next generation, yet people still idolize Silicon Valley. A true artist should interpret his subject as he sees fit, even if that means adding a dress shadow and more. Embattled NBC News anchor Brian Williams may have some more explaining to do. Other notable op-eds of 2015 The theme for the fifth anniversary of Let's Move! is: celebrate, challenge, champion. The lives of people in poor countries will improve faster in the next 15 years than at any other time in history. No high-ranking Americans joined the remarkable lineup of world leaders to denounce terrorism in Paris. How Mr. Spock helped make space travel accessible to all.
WASHINGTON ― After initially apologizing and accepting responsibility for failing to protect user data, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg declared support for some vague form of regulation as 44 senators questioned him during his first congressional testimony. “My position is not that there should be no regulation,” Zuckerberg said. “I think the real question, as the internet becomes more important in people’s lives, is what is the right regulation?” Under more direct questioning, the 33-year-old billionaire refused to endorse any specific regulatory proposal. He remained on the defensive, touting his company’s idealistic vision. Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) asked Zuckerberg if he would back legislation to mandate that digital platforms like Facebook obtain affirmative consent from users to collect their data for targeted advertising. Zuckerberg dodged: “In general, I think that principle is exactly right.” When Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) raised the possibility of the U.S. enacting data protection laws similar to the new rules about to go into effect in the European Union, he dodged again. “It’s certainly worth discussing,” he said. These kinds of easy dodges were common throughout the hearing. Zuckerberg received numerous questions that revealed simple misunderstandings about what Facebook does and how it works. He answered questions about how the company makes money (“We sell ads”), how much data it collects, whether it sells data, how targeted advertising works and whether it combines data from its many products. It wasn’t clear whether the senators really understood how Facebook worked. Facebook’s size and complexity enabled Zuckerberg to elude numerous questions. This was good fodder for humor about out-of-touch senators, but it also underscored how complicated Facebook is. Here, 44 senators had a chance to interrogate the chief executive of one of the most powerful corporations in the world about how it has violated user privacy, fueled the spread of propaganda, crushed competitors with potentially unfair practices and gutted the news industry by monopolizing digital ad dollars ― and they couldn’t quite get their arms around what they were dealing with. The senators, in some cases, were just like most of Facebook’s more than 2 billion users; not well informed about what they signed up for. Facebook is a complicated beast. It’s not just a social media site where you make meaningful connections with your friends and family, as Zuckerberg tried to sell it to the committee. It’s two social media sites: Facebook and Instagram. It’s three messaging apps: Messenger, Messenger Kids and WhatsApp. It’s a VPN that spies on competitor apps to steal their functions. It’s a virtual reality headset manufacturer. It’s a platform for other businesses, like games, and also professional researchers. It’s planning to release a digital home assistant device. And, of course, it’s a digital advertising platform that uses the data collected through all of these products ― and also across the web ― to help advertisers narrowly target their wares to the audience of their choosing. Facebook’s size and complexity enabled Zuckerberg to elude numerous questions. If a senator slipped up and said that Facebook sold data to advertisers, Zuckerberg pounced to explain that Facebook does not sell data. (It sells space on its website targeted to the users of the advertisers’ choosing, based on that data.) At times, it was not even clear that senators and Zuckerberg were using the same definitions for words. Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) asked whether a user could be on Facebook and not have their data shared. Zuckerberg’s said, “People can sign on and choose to not share things and just follow some friends or some pages and read content if that is what they want to do.” Essentially, you can choose not to have your data shared if you don’t ever post anything on Facebook. (This ignores the fact that Facebook tracks users across the web and collects data on them even if they don’t post anything.) The repeated confusion over how Facebook operated was not simply due to senators’ ages or lack of tech-savviness. ... It was because Facebook has not been clear about what it does with user data.
“Solo: A Star Wars Story” hits this weekend and even though that film is struggling a bit at the box office, Twitter would prefer if we could add “Star Wars” to every film. That might be a little overdoing it, but Hashtag Roundup’s Twitter game #PutStarWarsInOtherFilms makes a good argument. On Friday, the internet forced the galaxy far, far away into the rest of our cinematic universe and, based on the early reviews of “Solo,” it may be our only hope for good “Star Wars” related entertainment this weekend. Here are some of the best tweets from #PutStarWarsInOtherFilms:
Everyone's experience with heartbreak is different, but for most people, going through a breakup can look a lot like this: Now just imagine how much worse breakups must feel when you're also struggling with a mental illness like depression. "When you lead a life where you break your own heart every day, getting your heart broken by someone else can make it feel as though your world is ending," The Mighty contributing writer Kristin Breitkreutz, who has battled depression and anxiety for six years, wrote on their site. "Losing [my partner's] emotional support through a breakup was rough. The first question I had was, 'Why aren't I good enough?' followed by, 'Were my depression and anxiety too much?'" Registered psychologist Nicole McCance, who owns her own practice in Toronto, says these feelings of worthlessness and guilt are common among people battling depression. "When someone is depressed and they are broken up with it could feel to them like another failure, another reason they are not good enough," McCance told HuffPost Canada in an email. That's why the psychologist says some people "may tend to isolate themselves" and "may get stuck in their negative thoughts." If you've never had a mental health issue yourself, it can feel daunting trying to figure out how to help a friend who is struggling with both depression and a breakup. However, McCance says it's actually quite simple. "Being a good listener is the best way you can be a good friend to them," she said. "[But] don't try to be their therapist. Depression is an illness and needs treatment, either therapy or medication." Read on for three tips to help a friend with depression get through a breakup. 1. Remind them how great they are A little reassurance goes a long way. According to Kathryn J. Lively, a sociology professor at New Hampshire's Dartmouth College, "affirmations are used to reprogram the subconscious mind, to encourage us to believe certain things about ourselves. They are also used to help us create the reality we want." That being said, if we remind our friend that they are great, that the breakup was not their fault, that they're going to be just fine, we are helping them gain perspective of the situation. "They are likely blaming themselves and may need a reminder from a friend that they are not all bad," McCance said. 2. Get them out of the house "A symptom of depression is withdrawing from the world and wanting to stay home," explained McCance. "Getting out of the house and staying busy will prevent them from being taken over by their negative thoughts." One suggestion the psychologist made was to do an outdoor activity with your friend, surrounded by nature. "Being in nature helps get us out of our head," she said. Past studies confirm that exposing yourself to nature can help improve mental health – and something as simple as literally stopping to smell the roses can actually boost levels of happiness. "[Nature] is associated with reduced levels of stress — which also has huge ramifications for physical health, reduced levels of depression and anxiety, increased resilience ... improved self-esteem and increased capacity to engage socially," Mardie Townsend, a professor at the School of Health and Social Development at Australia's Deakin University, told Psychiatry Advisor. 3. Remind them that they are not alone Even though depression might make some people want to isolate themselves, it's important for them to know that they have a support system, said McCance. Not only is this comforting to hear, but it also lets them know that they can ask for help when they're ready, which can be hard to do. "Expressing to a loved one that you are there whenever they are ready to talk is a good start to opening up lines of communication," noted U.K. mental health organization Heads Together. Taking care of your mental health after experiencing a breakup is crucial, and while it might seem hard to do, McCance said sticking to a daily routine can help make things easier. "Things like being social, getting eight hours sleep, eating regular meals can all help improve mental health during a time of loss," she said. "Reminding your friend that sticking to their regular routine, such as going to work daily, is also important for their mental health. Refraining from reckless behaviour, such as using drugs and alcohol to avoid their emotional pain, is also important." However, if a few weeks go by and your friend is still in a bad state, McCance said it might be time for them to seek professional help. DepressionHurts.ca offers resources and information for those struggling with depression and for family and friends trying to help. Also on HuffPost:
If you drain your pasta water through a colander and down the sink, you’re throwing away an invaluable asset that cooks call “liquid gold.” (The term “liquid gold” has also been used to refer to wood cleaner, hair products and of course, urine. For the love of God, please don’t confuse pasta water with any of these.) Because pasta is made of flour, it releases starch into the cooking water as it boils, creating a white, cloudy liquid that we often deem “dirty” and then dump down the sink. Big mistake. That’s the liquid gold we’re talking about. Why would you want to keep that cloudy liquid, you may ask? Because it’ll help emulsify and thicken your sauce. Now you’re probably wondering, “But why would I want to emulsify my sauce? Who even cares?” Emulsification makes a difference, as science and taste buds prove. All too often, a plate of spaghetti is encircled by a watery, red puddle. You know what we’re talking about. It pools around the edge of your plate and ruins a gorgeous plate of pasta. That puddle results when the water and oil in your pasta and sauce separate from each other. Here’s where emulsification comes in. Emulsification is the process of blending two liquids that would otherwise repel each other ― in the case of pasta, it’s oil and water ― into a smooth, inseparable mixture. The starch in your pasta water, as luck would have it, is an emulsifying agent and also a thickener. So if you save some of your pasta water and then slowly mix a ladlefull of it into sauce, you’re binding together the liquids and oils, creating something creamy and thick that won’t ever separate into a puddly mess. There’s another benefit of using pasta water: By not rinsing your pasta, you’re keeping a nice coating of starch that’ll bind the pasta itself to the sauce, creating yet even more harmony on your plate. (Some people also claim pasta water makes your dish more flavorful, but that’s for super refined palates.) If you cook alternative pastas made with lentils, black beans, brown rice or just about anything else, those are all wonderfully starchy as well, and that water also can be used as liquid gold. Serious Eats was skeptical about whether laypeople could tell the difference between a regular sauce and a sauce that’s been emulsified with pasta water, so the website conducted a taste test that compared three different preparations of pasta. The one that used pasta water in its sauce won by a landslide. Pasta water works its magic in just about every kind of sauce, not just tomato. It can make an Alfredo sauce less greasy, and it can give a silky texture to a pesto. Here’s how to save your pasta water. Choose one of the following methods: If you insist on dumping your pasta into a giant colander, first make sure you’ve ladled out a couple cups of the cooking liquid and saved it in a bowl. Or you can use a pot with a pasta strainer insert. It allows you to just lift up the strainer when the pasta is ready, reserving all the liquid in the big pot. These things are magical. For long pastas like spaghetti and fettuccine, you can just use a pair of tongs to move the cooked pasta to a saucepan. Fish shorter pastas like macaroni and penne out of the water with a spider skimmer ladle. Now watch the masters use pasta water in their sauces. Mixing pasta water into your sauce takes a little bit of finesse. But this is certainly nothing new, as pasta makers have been doing it for ages. So let’s watch a few of the best make some incredible sauces. First is Frankie Celenza, one of our favorite modern-day pasta makers and YouTubers. He’s been preaching the benefits of saucing with pasta water since he first showed his enthusiastic face on our screens. Watch him work his magic with pasta water in three specific applications below, and then fall down the rabbit hole of his YouTube feed, because his videos are enchanting. Here, Celenza saves a sweet onion and tomato sauce with the help of some pasta water:
Lagos, Nigeria (CNN) The South African teenager who was kidnapped by unknown men demanding a $120,000 ransom in bitcoins has been found alive, police say. Katlego Marite, 13, was taken by three men in a car as he played with two friends near his home in the eastern province of Mpumalanga on Sunday. Police spokesman Brigadier Leonard Hlathi confirmed to CNN that Marite had been found but declined to comment further on the circumstances. "The combined efforts by the police and the community paid off when Marite was found safe and sound. The circumstances under which he was found are a subject of investigation," Hlathi said. The police spokesman also declined to comment on whether the bitcoin ransom demanded by the kidnappers was paid.
Michael D'Antonio is author of the book, "Never Enough: Donald Trump and the Pursuit of Success" (St. Martin's Press). The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) Hellbent on besting Barack Obama at everything, Donald Trump began talking about his potential Nobel Peace Prize long before the date set for his summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. He heaped praise on the most repressive leader in the world -- "very honorable" were the words he used -- and the White House Military Office even issued a commemorative medal for the upcoming summit which, bizarrely, called Kim "Supreme Leader." But Thursday, with a letter to Kim that is true to the cartoon nature of his personality, Trump cites "the tremendous anger and open hostility displayed in your most recent statement" and canceled the peace talks in a fit of childish pique. This came after Vice President Mike Pence's threat that the North Korean government could be toppled as Libya's was if Kim didn't come to heel -- a threat that prompted a North Korean official to call Pence a " political dummy ." Rarely has a President shown himself to be more clueless than Trump in his handling of the Korean crisis. With his schoolboy taunts about "rocket man" and wild swings between threats and loving praise, Trump has acted true to form. To understand this one need only consider his previous record of negotiating in business. As a New York real estate promoter, Trump habitually made outlandish statements and proposed projects he could never deliver. In one case he was going to build the tallest building in America on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. In another he insisted the big convention center named after longtime Sen. Jacob Javits of New York be named after his father, Fred Trump. Neither folly came to pass. In politics, Trump's early endeavors were marked by similar bluster. He feuded with Mayor Ed Koch and criticized every president who occupied the White House from 1976 forward. As a young man, he talked openly of the amounts required to purchase the loyalties of lawmakers and even New York Gov. Hugh Carey. And in my interviews with him in 2014, he disparaged politicians as almost as dishonest as the press. Read More
This is the next installment in Cape Town Diary, a series exploring how the South African city's water crisis is affecting the daily life of residents. Raymond Joseph is a freelance journalist living and working in Cape Town. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) Ever since I learned that Cape Town could become the first major city to run out of water, I've found myself becoming increasingly hooked on porn. "Water porn" that is. With the nightmarish prospect of Day Zero looming large, and the imposition of severe water restrictions , I began to google information about drought, water and solutions -- and also watch endless feel-good videos of water, aka, water porn. And, now that the first real winter rains have fallen on drought-stricken Cape Town and its equally dry hinterland, my appetite for water porn has increased even more. But before you think I'm some kind of pervert, water porn -- like "space porn," "word porn" and "food porn" -- is just another way to describe being a keen observer, rather than an active participant. I can't stop watching videos of water levels rising in dams pans and rivers . But my favorites are of dried up waterfalls that have come back to life as they cascade down mountains, streams that have come alive once again in Cape Town's urban forests and videos of pelting rain shot on mobile phones. The dance is set against a dystopian background of dead trees and vines that disappeared years ago when the dam was first flooded, but are now visible once again on the dry dam floor. It captures the seriousness of the drought, even as the dancer and the music speak of hope that it will pass and the rains will once again return. I even find myself watching some of them again and again: like a rain dance for Cape Town performed by the Joburg Ballet on the desolate floor of the Theewaterskloof Dam, Cape Town's largest water supply source.The dance is set against a dystopian background of dead trees and vines that disappeared years ago when the dam was first flooded, but are now visible once again on the dry dam floor. It captures the seriousness of the drought, even as the dancer and the music speak of hope that it will pass and the rains will once again return. And I'm not the only one. I asked on Facebook if others were also hooked and got a flood of confirmation "likes." Justin Hewitt said: "Water porn is a word we use when you are fixated on valves, taps, RPZs (reduced pressure zones) dumps and DAB (a brand of pressure pump used in plumbing)," and supplied a technical drawing of a water system he is designing. Marguerite DeMarillac St Julien says her "relationship with water issues was becoming toxic, so I had to break it off. ... It was having a negative effect on my psyche." She adds that she still thinks about water issues "but now I'm single and enjoying my freedom." And when Johannesburg experienced a severe drought last year, Georgina Guides says she "obsessively watched" the website of the local water authority to monitor dam levels. "I knew the days they were updated and how long it took a rain event to affect dam levels. And I watched Accuweather (a weather forecasting website) equally obsessively for reports." The number of times Cape Town water-related videos are being watched and shared is further confirmation of this phenomenon. The drought ballet video, for example, was viewed almost 29,000 times. And one by Cape Town vlogger Adam Spires, which explains how much water is used to produce different products, has been viewed more than 276,000 times. A few days ago, the International Research Institute for Climate and Society at Columbia University upgraded its earlier predictions for below average rainfall in the drought-stricken Western Cape province. The IRI is now predicting a higher likelihood for "above normal" rainfall during the traditional heavy rainfall months of June, July and August. More good news came when the city of Cape Town announced last week that three new desalination plants are about to come on stream finally, delivering 16 million liters of water a day. The drought has also gotten people thinking out of the box. A conference will be held this month to discuss the feasibility of towing giant icebergs to Cape Town to help alleviate the water crisis. This is no pie-in-the-sky plan; there are serious scientists involved, and marine salvage expert Nick Sloane, who is best known for leading the operation to salvage the wrecked Costa Concordia , the once-doomed ship, is behind the project. The water crisis has also sparked all kinds of innovation and marketing opportunities, including building an artificial wetland to purify contaminated water. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook As I sit writing, it is pouring down and the wind is howling, with several continuous days of heavy rains forecast for Cape Town and its dam catchment areas . But the hard reality is that even though the first good winter rains have fallen, it will take as long as three years to normalize the situation. And even though Cape Town has managed to halve its water use, it remains business unusual for residents -- taking 90-second showers or super shallow or bucket baths, collecting water at natural springs, harvesting rainwater and using gray water to flush the toilet. But at least we have YouTube and social media to give us hope, as we wait for the winter rainfall months that hopefully will end the worst drought in a century.
(CNN) A recent crackdown on women's rights activists in Saudi Arabia has cast doubt over a much-touted reform agenda led by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. At least 11 women's rights activists have been arrested in recent weeks, according to rights groups, and are believed to be faced with counterterror charges punishable by up to 20 years in prison. The State Security Presidency, a powerful security apparatus that reports directly to the King and 32-year-old Crown Prince, had been monitoring the detainees prior to their arrest, according to Saudi Arabia's official news agency. At least four of the detainees have been released in recent days, according to Amnesty International. But while the arrests were lauded in Saudi Arabia's mainstream press -- government-aligned media branded the activists "traitors" -- international groups and pundits, some close to the Saudi government, said the move was difficult to defend. One Saudi activist who previously supported the Crown Prince's ambitious reform agenda said he has felt disillusioned by him in recent weeks, canceling plans to return to the kingdom. Others staunchly opposed to the Crown Prince have said that the crackdown has "exposed the myth" of the reform agenda. Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May greets Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman outside 10 Downing Street on March 7, 2018. The arrests come on the heels of Mohammed bin Salman's month-long tour of Western countries, where he was billed as a modernizer spearheading change in the ultra-conservative kingdom. They also come in the run-up to June 24, when Saudi Arabia is set to lift a notorious ban on female drivers . Many of those arrested are high-profile campaigners against the law which barred women from getting behind the wheel, leading analysts to question why the young Crown Prince would go after activists who seemingly share his reformist goals. Not enough change Prior to bin Salman's rapid rise to power in recent years, Saudi Arabia's largely fundamentalist clergy held considerable sway over policy-making in the kingdom. The arrest of some prominent clerics in recent months, in addition to a series of moves that consolidated the Crown Prince's grip on decision-making, helped to clip the clergy's influence. Over the past year, Saudi Arabia opened its first cinema in decades and loosened several morality laws that discriminate against women, including its notorious rules requiring that women receive a male guardian's permission to travel, receive an education, and sometimes work and receive healthcare. A flyer circulating on social media in Saudi Arabia shows activists with a traitor stamp over each of their faces. But those familiar with the detained activists, many of whom were part of global campaigns against the male guardianship laws, say that they wanted more reforms. They say that the activists feared that changes would stop if they did not continue to work for greater rights. "Women are given the right to drive (by Mohammed bin Salman), thinking this would be the end of the journey," said Madawi al-Rasheed, a Saudi visiting professor at the London School of Economics. "But I think those women believe that the journey has just begun because the ceiling is very high and they're not going to stop at the prospect of driving a Jeep in Saudi Arabia. They have demands that need to be honored," she added. One of the most high-profile activists arrested in recent months, Loujain Al-Hathloul, was previously detained for 73 days in 2014 after trying to drive from the United Arab Emirates to Saudi Arabia. Another detained activist, Aziza al-Yousef, 70, is one of the country's earliest activists for the right to drive and signed a petition in recent years calling for an end to guardianship laws. This Nov. 30, 2014 image made from video released by Loujain al-Hathloul, shows her driving towards the United Arab Emirates - Saudi Arabia border before her arrest on Dec. 1, 2014, in Saudi Arabia. Eman al-Nafjan, a third detainee, is a well-known blogger who drove in Riyadh in 2013 as part of a protest that attracted international attention. "Those arrested -- Loujain, Aziza, Eman, and the others -- all agree with social changes underway in the Kingdom," read a report by the Washington, DC-based Project on Middle East Democracy. "But they have not been content with them, believing that Saudi women still face structural discrimination and other disadvantages under present laws." Shortly after Saudi Arabia announced that the driving ban would be lifted, the government told activists currently detained to stop speaking to the media, activists and analysts familiar with the case said. "Those who were targeted (in the arrests) were banned from any kind of public activity after warnings that authorities gave to them. Some of them closed their social media accounts. So why is this happening now?" well-known Saudi activist and Harvard University fellow Hala Aldosari wrote in a tweet. Imminent lifting of the driving ban The timing of the arrests, Mohammed bin Salman's defenders and detractors argue, is key. When women are finally allowed to drive on June 24, the Crown Prince wants to reiterate that the change was directed only by Saudi authorities, analysts say. Activists, who are regularly accused by Saudi Arabia's conservatives of being Western-backed, would be pushed out of the frame. "(The activists) can't be seen as taking credit for the right to drive. Firstly, it would be taking credit away from the Crown Prince and also would give the impression that activism pays off," said Kristian Ulrichsen, Rice University Baker Institute fellow for the Middle East. "The Crown Prince doesn't want to give that impression, that people can agitate for change and get results." The crackdown, one Saudi analyst argues, pays "lip service" to the kingdom's conservatives, and helps the young prince achieve a "balancing act" in a domestic minefield of Islamists, business tycoons, modernizers and a swelling youth population. "If there are activists on the women's section, there will be activists on the Islamists section and then they'll say 'why are you arresting clerics when these girls are doing X, Y, Z? Is it just because the Americans like them and they're being celebrated in the West?'" said Ali Shihabi, founder of the Washington, DC-based Arabia Foundation. "That's the sort of balancing act that the government has to claim." Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud at the G20 Summit on September 4, 2016 in Hangzhou, China. Shihabi said that the activists were caught "on some technical breaking of the law" and that the response by authorities was trumped up because of the imminent lifting of the driving ban. "(Mohammed bin Salman) has the 24th of June coming up, reality is going to hit people. Women are going to be on the streets driving. They don't want demonstrations on the street. They don't want radicals coming out and attacking cars. They want to manage it in as smooth a way as possible," said Shihabi, adding that Mohammed bin Salman's Saudi Arabia never pretended to implement anything other than a "top-down reform process." Still, Shihabi said the arrests do not bode well for a kingdom that has tried to burnish its image on an international stage. "It's very unfortunate. Everyone accuses Saudi Arabia of being so PR-savvy. If it was, it wouldn't have done this because it's a PR disaster," he said. A crackdown on civil society Meanwhile, rights groups fear the worst for the activists arrested. Those groups have long been critical of Royal Decree 44a, which state-aligned media say the detainees have been accused of violating. "We are very worried that these women and other activists detained, like activists before them, will be tried and sentenced on trumped up security-related charges for their peaceful human-rights activism," said Dana Ahmed, Amnesty International's campaigner on Saudi Arabia. The decree makes it easy for dissidents to face terror charges punishable by three to 20 years of prison time, said Human Rights Watch in a 2014 statement. Genders mix in a Saudi stadium. Saudi stadiums recently opened their doors to women as part of the string of reforms. Social freedoms may arrive in the kingdom as a steady stream but political rights remain few and far between, noted the Project on Middle East Democracy in a report this month. "No matter how welcome the new social freedoms among many Saudis, Mohammed bin Salman's reforms stop far short of granting rights that would remake Saudis from subjects receiving top-down directives into citizens with voices," the report reads. Rights groups also said that the crackdown on women's rights campaigns, long seen as one of the activist spheres more tolerated by Saudi authorities, could foretell the end of Saudi civil society. "It's completely unjustified that they're going after (women's rights activists) one by one and in a sense they are shutting off this space for civil society, for freedom of expression and for people to demand their rights completely," said Ahmed. الأمير محمد بن سلمان:"ليس لدينا أفضل سجل في مجال حقوق الإنسان في العالم لكننا نتحسن،وقد قطعنا شوطا طويلا في وقت قصير."مثل هذه التصريحات مطمئنة وتعكس اهتمام واضح بالمعاييرالدولية. وبإمكاننا القيام بقفزة نوعية تُحسن من سمعة المملكة وتثبت جدية هذه التصريحات بمراجعة قضايا سجناء الرأي pic.twitter.com/v1Vbnvr1Kr — لجين هذلول الهذلول (@LoujainHathloul) March 9, 2018 Al-Hathloul -- who could face a long prison term -- was complimentary about the Saudi Crown Prince in one of the last tweets she posted before her arrest, writing on March 9 that his remarks acknowledging the checkered Saudi human-rights record "are reassuring, and they reflect a clear interest in international standards." But she added a plea. "we can make a qualitative leap forward in improving the kingdom's reputation and prove the seriousness of these statements by reviewing the cases of prisoners of thought." Her Twitter feed went dark three days later.
John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion who focuses on climate change and social justice. Follow him on Snapchat , Facebook and email . This story is part CNN's " Vanishing " series. Learn more about the sixth extinction and get involved . La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica (CNN) The "blue jeans" frog is practically screaming to be noticed. Its head is blood red, and its legs are denim blue. It looks like it's wearing jeggings. But this little critter, also known as the strawberry poison dart frog, is only about the size of a fingernail. It spends most of its time either high up in the trees in this Central American rainforest or rooting around in the gooey "leaf litter" of the forest floor. As such, it's practically invisible. Unless you open your ears. Chit-chit-chit-chit-chit. "It sounds like an insect. It buzzes." That's Bryan Pijanowski, a "soundscape ecologist" from Purdue University and one of the few people paying attention to the fact that nature -- especially the amphibian part -- is growing exceptionally quiet these days. Pijanowski and collaborators from around the world have been strapping audio recorders to trees here at La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica. The microphones look like funny little robots -- boxes with windscreen ears on each side. Researchers have installed microphone sensors in the rainforeset to listen for the sound of extinction. The equipment has a critical mission. It's listening for the sound of extinction. Have you heard it already? I ask Pijanowski. "I think so," he tells me. His muted, baritone voice sounds like a public radio host sharing secrets with you in a library. "There is evidence all around the world." 'Rapid extinctions' Scientists fear Earth is on the verge of the sixth era of extinction. There have been five mass extinctions in the planet's history. Biologists fear we are on the verge of -- or have already entered -- the sixth era of extinction in Earth's history. If we usher in the sixth, three-quarters of all species could disappear in a couple of centuries, says Anthony Barnosky, executive director of the Jasper Ridge Biological Preserve at Stanford and author of "Dodging Extinction: Power, Food, Money and the Future of Life on Earth." "The best way to envision the sixth mass extinction," he told me, "is to look outside and then just imagine that three out of every four of the species that were common out there are gone." If you study amphibians, it can seem like that dystopian future already is here. About 10% of birds and a third of mammals are at high extinction risk. Not good. But more than 40% of amphibians are in similar straits -- making them worse off than any other vertebrate group, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Amphibians are vanishing without warning, and often without explanation. Chytrid fungus, which humans helped spread, has decimated frog populations around the world. "In the past 30 years or so, we've seen really dramatic, really rapid extinctions for frog populations all over the world," says Steven Whitfield, a conservation ecologist at Zoo Miami who joined Pijanowski and me on the visit to Costa Rica this summer. "Many of these extinctions are due to habitat loss. But other extinctions have occurred in pristine rainforests like this -- places that look healthy but the frogs are telling us there's something clearly wrong." 'Unable to see it' Whitfield spent years studying frogs at this research station in this particular forest. I ask him to show me how it's done. It doesn't take long to realize it's not easy work. When Whitfield conducts a study, he often ropes off a small plot of land and then spends hours searching for every single frog he can find. The search begins with his ears. CNN Map "I'll hear [a frog] call and spend half an hour or more looking into a small patch of vegetation, knowing that it's right there and that I need to find it but unable to see it," he tells me. Whitfield is an expert at pulling frog sounds out of the EDM freak-out that is the rainforest. If you've been, then you know these places, in healthy conditions, are LOUD. I actually had a hard time falling asleep some nights in Costa Rica because it sounded (awesomely) like the forest was yelling at me; and I woke up early to screams of howler monkeys. (Fun aside: Researchers warn newcomers to always wear shoes -- because, vipers -- and to watch the trees, since the "bullet ant," which delivers the world's most painful bite, like a bullet, is all around.) Whitfield's amphibian-listening powers are impressive, but even he has trouble finding frogs by sight. He takes me and a group of researchers from the Center for Global Soundscapes deep into the forest just after dusk one evening, when some frogs tend to be the most active. Our headlamps provide a washed-out sort of tunnel vision of the diversity hiding all around us. A Mexican Treefrog at La Selva Biological Station, which is a hub for field ecology. Whitfield can hear and identify frogs at great distance. There's the "chit-chit-chit" of the blue jeans frog (the one with jeggings), the panicked meowing of a creature aptly nicknamed the "kitten frog." He hears the slot-machine rattle of the "glass frog," which has a translucent belly, allowing you to see organs through its skin. Smoky jungle frogs scream like human babies when they're threatened, and the tink frog seems to be named for its metallic call, which sounds like that ear-piercing noise a smoke detector makes when it wants you to change its battery. This place is way beyond "ribbit." The sounds are staggering. But finding these frogs by sight? That's more difficult. In a couple of hours, we saw only a handful of frogs. Spiders almost seem easier to come by. "Those bite," Whitfield says, pointing to one. "Don't touch that." 'Something is happening' I'm grateful for the research Whitfield and other field ecologists have contributed when it comes to frogs. Their diligent, painstaking, searching-through-the-leaves work is how we know important (and fun) frog facts, like that the female blue jeans frog is an amphibian supermom. A view from the forest canopy at La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica. Her tadpoles hatch on the forest floor, he says, but that's a precarious place for them, so she carries them, on her back, high up into the forest canopy, sometimes 10 to 15 meters off the ground -- about 33 to 50 feet. She drops the tadpoles off in little puddles of water up there in the forest canopy and makes a mental note of their location. She does this again and again, leaving her young all over the forest canopy. She remembers where all these tadpoles are (!!) and spends her days climbing the trees to deliver food. "That's pretty complicated behavior for a tiny little frog," Whitfield says. His research also has helped show that frogs at La Selva are in decline. "We have really good long-term data on what's been happening with frog populations over four decades," he tells me. "In the forest here now, there's only about 25% as many frogs as there were sustained throughout the 1970s. And for us, that's a concern because it says that something is happening to this rainforest but we don't fully understand what that is." The strawberry poison dart frog is sometimes called the blue jeans frog. That's worth stating again. Locally, only a quarter of the frogs from the 1970s remain. Meanwhile, the human population jumped from less than 4 billion to 7.4 billion today. Whitfield's search-the-forest work is critical. But even he would say it could use a technological assist. That's where Pijanowski and his tree-hugging microphones come in. He's listening for changes Whitfield might not be able to see. 'Your ears ring' Bryan Pijanowski is an ecologist by training. Before that, he was a "quiet alterboy-ish kind of kid" in the Midwest who also was sort of an audiophile -- and an amateur musician. He played guitar in a high school band called Destruction. "Everybody wanted you to play 'Freebird,'" he said, "so that's what I played -- over and over again." In school, he set out to become a medical doctor but changed his mind after hearing the "dawn chorus" of a swamp in Michigan. He became obsessed with nature and its music. Bryan Pijanowski is a "soundscape ecologist" from Purdue University. He's also director of the Center for Global Soundscapes. So he studied birds and ecology, and eventually turned to "soundscapes," the emerging field of using sound to understand the shifts in the health and function of ecosystems. The work makes him so sound-focused he now has to wear earplugs to sleep. He can't stop listening. "There are times when [the rainforest] is almost too loud," he tells me. "It's like being too close to the speakers at a concert. Your ears ring." La Selva is now one of his study sites. He's working to develop others around the world, including underwater to listen for changes to coral reefs. His microphones have taken him to the tip of South America and the deserts of Mongolia. But this site is special both because the rainforest is nearly untouched -- and because there's so much data. Pijanowski got his hands on recordings that date back to 2008 and started making his own recordings here in 2010. At the peak of his research, he'd installed 34 microphone sensors. Now he has 255,000 recordings here, totaling about 6.8 years of tape. He's still analyzing the data with the help of computer algorithms. What he's heard -- or rather, what he doesn't hear -- definitely freaks him out. 'Acoustic fossils' One evening, insects and frogs chattering outside, Pijanowski sits me down in an open-window classroom at the research station and shows me some of his sound files. He visualizes the audio in charts called spectrograms. These charts illuminate trends that a walk through the forest can't. Take a look at this La Selva recording from 2008. And then another from 2015, recorded under similar conditions. Hear the difference? Those are just two moments. Pijanowski's team can compress a year's worth of sound into one chart. Take a look at what happens when you look at those years side by side. The red parts of the charts indicate more audible activity. The main frog frequencies grow much bluer, and quieter. A year of audio is compressed into spectrograms. Red indicates more sound coming from the forest. Blue is much quieter. It's too soon to draw scientific conclusions from this, Pijanowski tells me. But he's frightened. "I'm worried that these would potentially become acoustic fossils," he says. "In other words, the animals that are in these files are no longer alive. And the only record that we have of some of their presence is in an audio recording. "That is somewhat disturbing to me, as a scientist and also as a citizen of this planet." A collaborator of Pijanowski's, Michael Towsey, tells me he has a file of an Australian frog that's thought to be extinct -- a recording that already is an acoustic fossil. You can listen to that frog's call here on the Internet. But you can no longer hear it in nature. 'Most beautiful sound in the world' Why does this matter? There's the self-interested argument. Here's Steven Whitfield's take on that. "We are all dependent on the planet for clean water, for oxygen. And ecosystems not only provide food to people but rainforests like this are an important source of medicines. Some of the frogs that live in the rainforest here have chemicals in their skin that have been found to be important medicines. They can be painkillers or heart medicines. So these are things that can be really useful for medicine. And we'd like to not lose those. If we do lose those, it hurts us all." Frog populations at La Selva Biological Station have plunged 75% since the 1970s, according to Steven Whitfield, Zoo Miami. There's the ecosystem collapse argument. Bryan Pijanowski: "Some of the theoretical work that we're doing and ecology suggests that we could have ecosystem collapse. And that's not good ... You don't wanna start removing organisms and expect the ecosystem to survive and function in a healthy way. It could very well mean that some of the things that we are much more emotionally attached to are lost." That should be enough to sway a pragmatist. Still, I think there's a more human reason you should care about the disappearance of amphibians. Chances are you never or rarely see frogs in your day-to-day life. But when you learn about them -- those with translucent bellies, supermom instincts, blue-jean legs and poisonous skin, all of which are calling to be noticed by each other if not by us -- then it's hard to ignore their plight. There are multiple causes of the amphibian apocalypse, but all the trouble points back to us. We've helped carry a killer fungus, called chytrid, around the globe, with disastrous consequences. Climate change has been implicated in frog die-offs. Pollution is a big problem since frogs live part-time in water and basically breathe through their skin. They are the front lines -- the most vulnerable of species. Yet few of us seem truly outraged by their disappearance. Maybe that will change if we start listening more closely. After all, frog choruses are some of the most fascinating songs in nature. One recording from the island of Borneo -- called "dusk by the frog pond" -- was voted by the always-wise Internet as "the most beautiful sound in the world." It's not too late to stop the sixth extinction from taking permanent hold of us, according to Barnosky, the Stanford researcher. We have at most 20 years to change our ways. There's hope. But we must ditch fossil fuels, mitigating climate change. We have to stop the spread of invasive species and disease. And, in the view of one prominent biologist, we must set aside half the planet for the benefit of biodiversity and nature. Otherwise, we risk silencing the frogs. And perhaps the rest of nature, too.
A vitriolic audiotape of a phone call between Donald Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen and a reporter reveals how the lawyer tried to protect his boss with threats and fury. “What I’m going to do to you is going to be fucking disgusting,” Cohen tells the journalist in a rage on the tape aired for the first time Thursday by National Public Radio. The phone call offers a fascinating glimpse into the way a bristling Cohen dealt with people to get them to back off Trump, establishing his reputation as a “fixer.” Former Trump political adviser Sam Nunberg said that Trump himself set the aggressive tone he expected Cohen to take. Cohen “was supposed to say and act the way Donald wanted him to act,” Nunberg added. “Michael had even expressed sometimes regret that he did certain things — because it was at the direction of Donald.” The phone call involved then-Daily Beast reporter Tim Mak, who wrote the NPR story and provided a tape of his conversation with Cohen. He had reached out to former Trump aide Hope Hicks in 2015 for a response to claims made by Trump’s first wife, Ivana Trump, in a 1993 deposition during divorce proceedings that her husband had once raped her. Ivana Trump confirmed that she used the word “rape” but later clarified that she didn’t mean rape in a “literal or criminal sense.” (After the Beast story appeared, she said the story was “without merit” and that “Donald and I are now the best of friends.”) Mak heard back from Cohen, who first told the reporter, falsely, that by “definition you can’t rape your spouse.” In fact, marital rape is a crime in all 50 states and has been illegal in New York since 1984 (Ivana claimed she was attacked in 1989). Cohen then became increasingly heated — and threatening. “Mark my words ... I will make sure that you and I meet one day over in the courthouse, and I will take you for every penny you still don’t have, and I will come after your Daily Beast and everybody else that you possibly know,” Cohen said. “Do not even think about going to where I know you’re planning on going. And that’s my warning for the day.” He added: “Tread very fucking lightly because what I’m going to do to you is going to be fucking disgusting. Do you understand me? Don’t think you can hide behind your pen because it’s not going to happen. I’m more than happy to discuss it with your attorney ... because, motherfucker, you’re going to need it.” Then he suggested: “I think you should go ahead and write the story that you plan on writing; I think you should do it because I think you’re an idiot, all right, and I think your paper is a joke. And it’s going to be my absolute pleasure to serve you with a $500 million lawsuit.” Mak wrote the story and Cohen never sued. But Nunberg told NPR there were calls among Trump campaign aides for Cohen’s resignation after that because of the way he dealt with the situation. Cohen later apologized for his false claims that spousal rape is not illegal. Trump also distanced himself from Cohen’s claim about spousal rape, saying: “He’s speaking for himself. He’s not speaking for me, obviously.”
Courtesy of the ACLU Katia Hills and her son. She says she's afraid to have another kid after the discrimination she faced at work the first time around. Katia Hills, a healthy 27-year-old married woman, said she was afraid to have another child after what happened the last time. Before she got pregnant with her son in 2014, Hills was working at an AT&T store in Elkhart, Indiana, where her career was taking off. She was promoted to sales rep after just a few months. She loved her work selling cellphones and tablets. Her evaluations were good. Then her managers learned she was expecting. The punishments piled up, according to a discrimination lawsuit she filed against AT&T last week in federal court. If Hills needed to go to the doctor or was late because of morning sickness, she was docked a “point.” Employees who lose enough points under AT&T’s system face the possibility of losing their jobs. The points started adding up. At the same time, Hills observed that her nonpregnant colleagues did not get any penalties when they were late to work. “I was being treated a lot different,” Hills told HuffPost. “It was devastating.” In an emailed statement, AT&T said it’s reviewing Hills’ complaint. “We do not tolerate discrimination of any kind, including for an employee’s gender or pregnancy.” The company noted it provides “generous benefits,” including various types of paid and unpaid days off and leaves of absence. I was being treated a lot different. It was devastating. Katia Hills Pregnancy and the arrival of a new child should be a time of joy and excitement, but for working women in the United States, it’s often a time of financial stress and uncertainty. Women who dare become mothers are subject to additional discrimination, bias and harassment. Is it any wonder they’re having fewer children? Last week, the CDC released a report revealing that the U.S. birth rate ― the number of babies born nationwide ― is the lowest it’s been in 30 years and is below the “replacement” rate needed to sustain the population. One New York Times article said “social factors” explained the decline; women were putting off childbirth in favor of their careers, and an opinion piece on Friday blamed the patriarchy. Bloomberg said economic factors were the culprit. Conservatives blamed social media and pornography, claiming everyone is just having less sex. Fox News personality Tucker Carlson twisted his argument until he somehow pinpointed male immigrants as the culprit. But all of these stories ignore a basic reality: Most women in the U.S., even before they get pregnant, know how little social support exists for them as mothers. A shocking 88 percent of workers get no paid leave in the United States, according to the Labor Department. About 1 in 4 mothers go back to work less than two weeks after giving birth, according to a 2015 report. This often leads to devastating health outcomes for parents and babies. Having kids often isn’t financially viable. For low-income women, motherhood can throw you into poverty. For higher-earners, pregnancy knocks you off track for promotions and pay raises. A clear wage penalty for mothers is also not helping. Even though more than 70 percent of families rely on a mother’s income, moms working full time earn about 71 percent of what fathers make, according to a March report from the Washington Center for Equitable Growth. That’s a full 9 points lower than the average gender wage gap. “To the extent that some women would want to be mothers if it was financially viable, but don’t want to risk good careers or poverty, that’s not a free choice,” said Elizabeth Oltmans Ananat, an associate professor in the Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke. “Women are painted into a corner.” Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Birth rates are rising for older women and declining for younger ones, according to CDC data.
Washington (CNN) Parents of students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, have joined forces to create a super PAC with the goal of defeating politicians who have the support and backing of the National Rifle Association. The group is made up of parents who lost their children in the deadly shooting at the school on February 14 and those who saw their children come home but are upset that this happened in their school, as well as community members from Parkland who may not necessarily be linked to Stoneman Douglas but are concerned about what happened there. According to the organizers of the Families vs. Assault Rifles PAC, the goal behind putting up money against candidates who receive funding from the NRA is to elect candidates to Congress who endorse a bill to ban assault weapons. "The ultimate goal is to amend the National Firearms Act of 1934 by adding just a paragraph or two or whatever it takes to ban assault weapons and also ban the more dangerous accessories of assault weapons, such as high capacity magazines and bump stocks," said Jeff Kasky, the father of two Parkland students who survived the massacre and who is part of the group behind the PAC. "But we know to get to that very simple goal, we have to take the NRA out of our politics." "Most Americans agree that there needs to be some common-sense gun reform. Why don't we have it?" Kasky said. "The party in power is being controlled by the NRA." Read More
Story highlights St. Joseph's Indian School raises over $50 million annually from donations It sends waves of mailings across the country asking for help A Native American leader denounces the tactics, calling them "poverty porn" The school admits that the author of a begging letter does not exist The boy's stories are heartbreaking: "My dad drinks and hits me ... my mom chose drugs over me ... my home on the reservation isn't a safe place for me to be," wrote Josh Little Bear. His request seems reasonable -- send a few dollars to help St. Joseph's Indian School to keep "kids like me safe ... so we don't have to live this way anymore." But Josh Little Bear doesn't exist. It's not just a pseudonym to protect a child. The story is a fabrication, a compiling of events that may or may not have happened to paint a broad picture that Native American leaders say does not exist. Officials at St. Joseph's Indian School -- a 200-person boarding school in Chamberlain, South Dakota, that's affiliated with a Roman Catholic charity based in Wisconsin -- say they send out waves of mailings three or four times a year. Flags fly at the entrance to St. Joseph's Indian School. The latest, a Christmas-oriented mailer, was sent in early November, according to the school's director of communications. The packets include calendars, personalized return address stickers, notepads, elaborate stickers and a so-called "Dreamcatcher," a Native American handicraft that by tradition gives its owners good dreams. The Christmas appeal introduced "Emily High Elk." A year ago when her family brought her to the school, the letter says, "(y)ou could see the hopelessness she felt in her dark brown eyes." Now, the letter goes on, "her big bright smile reveals how her life has changed." But again, "Emily High Elk," is more than a pseudonym. The girl whose life is described in the letter does not exist. Children walk through the school after classes. According to its financial statements, St. Joseph's Indian School raised more than $51 million last year from millions of Americans who donated because of those mailings. CNN began receiving complaints about mailings like this more than two years ago. When asked about Josh Little Bear's letter, Kory Christianson, the director of development, wrote us that there was no such student "The name 'Josh Little Bear' is fictitious," he wrote, "but unfortunately, his story is not." The letter, he added, "is a true story of the very real and challenging situations that far too many children face not only in the Native American community, but in families found in every sphere of society." He said it wasn't the "intention to disparage in any way the Native American community." But some Native Americans say there is deliberate disparagement and that it's a marketing technique. A half-hour drive away from St. Joseph's is the Crow Creek Lakota Sioux reservation in central South Dakota, where its vice chairman, Leonard Pease, scoffed at the fundraising letter. A sculpture of a teepee at St. Joseph's Indian School. "That's how they get their money," he told CNN. "To me, they make the Indians look bad." Michael Roberts, president of the First Nations Development Institute that aims to strengthen and support Native communities, went further. He termed the fundraising letter and the admission that the child is nonexistent as "poverty porn." "They are raising money in the name of Indians, using the worst of poverty porn of all Indian country to raise money on all our social ills," said Roberts, whose Colorado-based group represents six Native American nonprofit organizations. It seems that the money being raised is being used for the right reasons, as far as CNN could see. We were given a tour of the school but were not allowed to film. The complex, on the banks of the Missouri River, looks like a nice place and the children seemed happy, well-fed and well-housed. We tried unsuccessfully to interview the leadership of St. Joseph's. The communications director, Jona Ohm, first invited us to meet the school president at the small museum operated by the school. A view of the campus of St. Joseph's Indian School, on the banks of the Missouri River. The president, Mike Tyrell, acknowledged that the mailings "push the edge" of marketing and asking about them "is a legitimate question." But Ohm told us to stop. "You don't have permission to record in any way, shape or form," she said.
(CNN) It may be summer, but if you're not the sun and sand type, you're in luck: Your best friend television is here to keep you company. In addition to the impending return of some existing favorites -- "Luke Cage" (June 22), "GLOW" (June 29), and "Power" (July 1) -- summer will bring with it a few new television shows that could be worth checking out. Here are eight of our picks: "Pose" (June 3, FX) This Ryan Murphy-created dance musical, which has the largest-ever cast of transgender actors in series regular roles, explores various walks of life and society in 1980s New York, from the underground ball culture to the lavish lifestyles of high-rise executives. It's a heart-tugger, filled with up-and-coming talent, and a reminder that even New York City has some beautiful, under-told stories left in it. Read More
(CNN) The World Health Organization wants to eliminate artificial trans fats from the global food supply and has a step-by-step strategy on how to do so by 2023. On Monday, the WHO launched an initiative called REPLACE that will provide guidance for all countries on how to remove artificial trans fats from their foods, possibly leading to a worldwide eradication. "This initiative is meant to lead countries in establishing legislation to eliminate the trans fats," said Dr. Francesco Branca, director of the Department of Nutrition for Health and Development at the WHO in Geneva, Switzerland. Artificial trans fats, or trans fatty acids , are made when vegetable oil hardens in a process called hydrogenation. Those hydrogenated fats can be used in fried foods, snack foods or baked goods , and in products such as vegetable shortening, stick margarine, coffee creamer and ready-to-use frostings. They don't spoil as quickly as other fats, but they can have some harmful health effects , such as raising levels of "bad" LDL cholesterol and increasing risk of heart disease, stroke and type 2 diabetes. "There are countries where the risk is particularly high. In South Asian countries, they have very, very high risk of heart disease and high intakes of trans fats," Branca said. "There are some Latin American countries, but they're already taking action. Mexico was a country where the intake was very high," he said. "South Africa was having problems, but then they established legislation. It is happening in more countries in the Middle East, but the information we have is limited." REPLACE stands for review dietary sources, promote use of healthier fats, legislate, assess changes, create awareness and enforce. The REPLACE package is the first time the WHO is calling for the elimination of a big lifestyle factor driving non-communicable disease, as indicated by Dr. Tedros Adhanom, director-general of the WHO, while speaking during a telebriefing on Monday. Non-communicable diseases, also known as chronic diseases , tend to result from a combination of genetic, physiological, environmental and behavioral factors, such as diet, according to WHO. Cardiovascular diseases, associated with consuming a diet high in artificial trans fats, are an example of a non-communicable disease. "Non-communicable diseases are the world's leading cause of death," Adhanom said during the telebriefing. "WHO is committed to supporting countries to reduce the burden of non-communicable diseases." 'Only your heart will know the difference' Dr. Tom Frieden, president and CEO of the public health initiative Resolve to Save Lives , led efforts to remove artificial trans fats from restaurants in New York as the city's health commissioner between 2002 and 2009. He knows firsthand the process of taking such action. Resolve to Save Lives, a partner of the WHO and a part of the nonprofit Vital Strategies , plans to provide assistance to countries to support the REPLACE strategies in eliminating artificial trans fats. "What we found in New York City was that industry wasn't really willing to fight us on this," said Frieden, former director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Artificial trans fats are "easily replaceable," he said. "You don't need to change the taste or cost or availability for great food. Only your heart will know the difference -- and that's why the call of the initiative to become trans-fat-free by 2023 is so very important." In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration has determined that partially hydrogenated oils -- the main dietary source of artificial trans fats -- are no longer "generally recognized as safe." In 2015, the agency gave food companies three years to cut artificial trans fats containing partially hydrogenated oils from processed foods or to petition for a specific use of partially hydrogenated oils, sometimes known as PHOs. The Grocery Manufacturers Association , a Washington-based trade association representing more than 250 food, beverage and consumer product companies, issued a statement Friday in response to the WHO's efforts. "Food and beverage companies have worked diligently and successfully to reduce the use of PHOs, and these actions have reduced PHO-related trans-fat use by close to 98%," said the statement from Leon Bruner, the association's executive vice president of science and regulatory affairs and its chief science officer. The association "filed a food additive petition in October 2015 that seeks FDA approval for specific, limited uses of PHOs that are both safe and important for the production of safe food products. FDA continues to review GMA's food additive petition," the statement said. "It is important to remember that, even with the actions by FDA and announcement by WHO, there will always be naturally occurring trans fat in the diets that include meat and dairy products such as milk, butter and yogurt." JUST WATCHED What it takes to replace trans fats Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What it takes to replace trans fats 01:03 Naturally occurring trans fats are produced in the gut of some animals, and foods made from these animals, such as milk and meat products, may contain small quantities of these fats, according to the American Heart Association . Artificial trans fats are created in an industrial process. "Really, I think it takes legislation to make a big change like that in terms of overall population health, along with policy and nutrition education," said Lynn James, a registered dietitian and senior extension educator at Pennsylvania State University Extension who is not involved in the new WHO initiative. "In many developing countries, they're trying to Westernize their diets," James said, and in the United States, "we have been a leader of -- when we talk about the Westernized diet -- preparing processed foods. Hopefully, we're going to be a leader again towards eating more whole foods, such as the healthful Mediterranean diet." Mediterranean-style diet involves plant-based meals of vegetables, fruit, beans and cereals. It includes plenty of fish and some poultry, but foods not included in this diet (or included in small amounts) include red meats, sweets, eggs and butter. "When you move away from eating foods containing processed trans fats, you are also eating less sodium and added sugar, further decreasing risk for coronary artery disease, type two diabetes and Alzheimer's disease," she said. The United States isn't the only country that has implemented trans fat legislation. In 2004, Denmark became the first country in the world to regulate the content of artificial trans fat in certain food products, nearly wiping it out of the Danish food supply. In the three years after that policy was implemented, deaths attributable to cardiovascular disease decreased on average by 14.2 per 100,000 Danes annually, according to a study published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine in 2015. Once legislation has been established in a country, the WHO's Branca said, there must be suitable replacements of artificial trans fats made available to food companies in that nation. "The WHO recommends to use oils rich in unsaturated fat, such as soybean oil or sunflower oil," he said. "We need to make sure the supply of these oils is adequate for countries to use in this context." 'I'm confident that industrial trans fat will be eliminated' Trans fats played a role for the food industry, said Christopher Gardner, director of nutrition studies at the Stanford Prevention Research Center and a professor of medicine at Stanford University , who is not involved in the new WHO initiative. For instance, "they helped keep the icing on the top of a cupcake solid and prevented it from rolling off the cupcake. When trans fats get removed from the food system, the companies don't stop making cupcakes. Instead, they find another form of saturated fat or a fat that has the properties of saturated fat," he said. "That other type of fat may be slightly healthier than trans fat. But whatever type of fat or fat substitute it is, it won't turn junk food into health food." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. All in all, the elimination of industrial trans fats can prevent millions of premature deaths and chronic diseases worldwide, said Dr. Walter Willett, professor of epidemiology and nutrition at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, who was not involved in the WHO initiative. For those public health benefits to occur, however, "the WHO has no enforcement capacity, so actions will need to be carried out by national and local governments, but WHO guidelines have credibility worldwide," Willett said. "The food industry is not monolithic. Some parts of the industry eliminated trans fat proactively once the evidence became clear that this was harmful, but other parts of the industry are likely to resist unless they are legally forced to remove trans fat from their products," he said. "In the long run, I'm confident that industrial trans fat will be eliminated."
(CNN) The 2018 hurricane season is shaping up to be "near- or above-normal" -- though not to the degree seen last year, when 17 named storms formed and three major hurricanes struck US soil -- the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA, said Thursday. with Category 3 strength or higher -- are predicted this Atlantic hurricane season, which begins June 1, the Ten to 16 named storms -- including five to nine hurricanes, and one to four major hurricaneswith Category 3 strength or higher -- are predicted this Atlantic hurricane season, which begins June 1, the federal agency predicted Last year's season ended with 10 hurricanes and six major hurricanes. The Atlantic basin annually averages 12 named storms, with six hurricanes and three major hurricanes. NOAA added that there is a 75% chance that the 2018 season will see near or more than the average number of storms in the basin. "The devastating hurricane season of 2017 demonstrated the necessity for prompt and accurate hurricane forecasts," US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said.
(CNN) Facing the reality that "I need help" and knowing where to actually get it are crucial initial steps for anyone battling prescription and illegal drug addiction. The process to recovery can be one ridden with pain, denial and shame. If you search on the Internet for "Where to get help for drug abuse?" search results are in the millions. Trying to find the best treatment options for yourself or a loved one can be overwhelming. But it is not impossible. Death from prescription opioid overdose has quadrupled since 1999, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . From 2000 to 2015, more than half a million people died of drug overdoses, the opioid commission reported , and opioids account for the majority of those deaths. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration estimates that in 2014, about 15 million people in the United States older than 12 were non-medical users of pain relievers. On the agency's website, it offers a behavioral health treatment services locator where individuals can type in their ZIP code and get directions to treatment centers in their community. The agency also offers a 24-hour free hot line for treatment referrals and support: 1-800-662-HELP (4357). Calls are confidential and offered in English and Spanish. For treatment options tailored to the needs of veterans, the Veterans Crisis Line directs veterans and their loved ones to "qualified, caring Department of Veterans Affairs responders through a confidential toll-free hot line": 1-800-273-8255, option 1. The department's website says veterans of all "ages and circumstances" can also chat online and text 838255 for support options. All contact points are accessible 24 hours a days, seven days a week, 365 days a year. The organization says since its inception it has answered more than 2 million calls and dispatched emergency responders more than 70,000 times to callers in distress. According to the National Survey of Drug Use and Health , approximately 10 million Americans, aged 12 to 29, need treatment for substance abuse and addiction. The Partnership for Drug-Free Kids offers a toll-free hotline: 1-855-DRUGFREE (378-4373) to assist parents who are seeking help for their children. Above the Influence is a website for young adults who want to get help for themselves or a friend who is using substances. The site describes warning signs and offers resources for treatment. Once referred to a treatment center, knowing what to look for is key. Treatment options are not created equal or one-size-fits-all. When considering a program, the National Institute on Drug Abuse recommends choosing a treatment method that is backed by solid scientific evidence. The organization also recommends asking whether a program customizes treatment to the individual needs of each patient, taking into account a patient's background and particular history with drug abuse. "Without attending to the social issues (of an individual) we will not see as great of an effect as potentially possible," says Jack Stein, the institute's Director of the Office of Science Policy and Communications. "We need to approach substance abuse disorder from a whole person perspective." Stein also recommends selecting a treatment program that uses a combination therapy approach: one that addresses both detoxifying and the continuing needs of the individual. The National Institute on Drug Abuse offers advice about questions to ask upon starting a treatment program, such as whether the duration of treatment is sufficient for the need. On its website, the institute says research suggests most addicted people need a minimum of three months in treatment. However, the best treatment strategies track one's progress and develop plans that will maintain a long-term recovery. One way to guarantee continued support during and after a treatment program is to find a local chapter of Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous Unfortunately, when it comes to prescription drug abuse, relapse can happen. It's important to realize, says the National Institute on Drug Abuse, that even if relapse occurs, it doesn't automatically equal failure. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. The organization encourages families to view substance abuse similarly to a chronic disorder such as heart disease or asthma, which will require "support and vigilance on the part of the individual." Staying connected to a community like a local support group is key. So is recognizing there maybe setbacks. "We try to encourage families to understand that relapse can occur, but the individual can recover," Stein said. Treatment is just one solution to stopping the increase in prescription drug abuse. The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) focuses on research to find the link between substance abuse and behavioral traits. Its research is then used to help inform parents of warning signs. CASA also uses research to determine what does and doesn't work in treatment methods and shares its findings with health care providers and individuals. For additional information, the National Institute of Health has many resources available for children, young adults, adults and seniors suffering from prescription drug abuse such as diagnosis, tests, treatments and therapy options. You can also support charities trying to make an impact on drug addiction.
San Juan, Puerto Rico (CNN) An estimated 4,645 people died in Hurricane Maria and its aftermath in Puerto Rico, according to an academic report published Tuesday in a prestigious medical journal. That figure dwarfs Puerto Rico's official death toll of 64, which the article's authors called a "substantial underestimate" of Hurricane Maria's death toll. "These numbers ... underscore the inattention of the US government to the frail infrastructure of Puerto Rico," authors from Harvard University and other institutions wrote in the New England Journal of Medicine. The official death toll in Puerto Rico has been the subject of substantial controversy since Hurricane Maria hit this island, a US territory, on September 20. CNN and other news outlets have used government statistics and extensive interviews with families of the deceased and funeral home directors to question the Puerto Rican government's official tally of deaths. Previous estimates suggested Maria contributed to about 1,000 deaths. The team from Harvard arrived at its much-higher estimate by surveying 3,299 randomly chosen households across the island earlier this year. Authors compared results of that survey -- which asked island residents about deaths in their homes, among other things -- with official mortality statistics from 2016. That allowed researchers to estimate the number of deaths that likely occurred as a result of Hurricane Maria between the date of the storm and December 31, 2017. "The difference is that we went out and we had boots on the ground and we did the interviews," said Domingo Marqués, an associate professor of clinical psychology at Carlos Albizu University in Puerto Rico, who was among the report's authors. "Statistically, it's like having interviewed the whole island," he said. Still, the exact death toll is likely to remain a mystery. Experts tell CNN it is difficult to say with certainty whether a hurricane "caused" certain deaths, especially those that occurred because of the chaotic and unsafe conditions that have lingered for months in Puerto Rico. Marqués and colleagues say 793 to 8,498 hurricane deaths occurred. In a news conference on Tuesday, Hector Pesquera, head of Puerto Rico's public safety department, said the government did not have reason to question the latest estimates, which come from researchers at Harvard University as well as Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, the University of Colorado and universities in Puerto Rico. US territory officials stressed that the Puerto Rican government has hired George Washington University to conduct an assessment of Maria's death toll and that the results of that review are still forthcoming. Previously, officials had expected the George Washington University report to be released this spring, before the Atlantic hurricane season, which begins on June 1. "The Government of Puerto Rico welcomes the newly released Harvard University survey and we look forward to analyzing it," Carlos R. Mercader, executive director of the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration, said in a press release. "As the world knows, the magnitude of this tragic disaster caused by Hurricane Maria resulted in many fatalities. We have always expected the number to be higher than what was previously reported. That is why we commissioned The George Washington University to carry out a thorough study on the number of fatalities caused by Hurricane Maria which will be released soon. Both studies will help us better prepare for future natural disasters and prevent lives from being lost." The Harvard study says the Puerto Rican and US governments did not provide adequate services -- including electrical power and medical assistance -- after the hurricane. It also notes that Puerto Rican officials have refused to make public basic mortality statistics. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), which oversees disaster recovery, has said it encountered unique logistical challenges on the island after the storm that make comparisons between the response to Maria and other storms problematic. CNN and the Center for Investigative Journalism (CPI) in Puerto Rico are suing the island's demographic registry for access to death records that have been withheld. In November, CNN surveyed 112 funeral homes -- about half the total -- across Puerto Rico, in a moment when many communication systems remained inoperable. At that time, funeral home directors identified 499 deaths they considered to be hurricane-related. Puerto Rico added at least two people to its official count following CNN's investigation. Grave of Natalio "Pepito" Rodríguez Lebrón at the Municipal Cemetery of Maunabo in Puerto Rico. His family says they couldn't afford to power a breathing machine that helped keep him alive. Rodriguez died January 6 from a pulmonary disease. One was Quintín Vidal Rolón, 89, who died in a lantern fire that relatives said occurred because of the storm; Vidal was using the lantern because he didn't have electricity. Other uncounted deaths occurred in environments where people lacked electricity or other basic services, including communications. Many roads were blocked after the storm. And hurricane-related deaths appear to have continued for months after the September hurricane. Natalio Rodriguez Lebron, 77, for example, died in Maunabo, Puerto Rico, in January. His family says that's because they couldn't afford to power a breathing machine that helped keep him alive. While most power and water service has been restored, thousands of people here remain without electricity -- more than eight months after Hurricane Maria. The latest death-toll estimate could be seen as an indictment of the federal response to the storm, said Dr. Gregory J. Davis, director of the University of Kentucky's Forensic Pathology Consultation Service. "This alone should make your readers and the readers of the New England Journal really stand up and take notice -- and frankly be asking our government 'Why?' " he said. "Our government is not doing what they should be doing down there. It's infuriating, that's the bottom line." The New England Journal of Medicine article adds to "a growing consensus that deaths have been undercounted by the Puerto Rican government," said Alexis Santos, a demographer at Penn State University who also has researched the death toll following Maria. "This is a valid way of looking at it," he said of the research from Harvard. Still, "The way this is done, by interviews with people in different barrios in Puerto Rico, it seems to me that someone could report a death as associated with the hurricane when it was not." That could result in an overcounting of deaths, he said. The Harvard team, meanwhile, says that, if anything, its estimates are low. It would be impossible to identify some deaths using a survey, Marqués said. For example, if a person died while living alone there would be no person in that home able to answer questions. Researchers also underscored how much an accurate death toll matters -- in terms of supplying adequate assistance, for the families of victims and for the prevention of future deaths. "As the United States prepares for its next hurricane season," the researchers wrote, "it will be critical to review how disaster-related deaths will be counted, in order to mobilize an appropriate response operation and account for the fate of those affected."
John McWhorter teaches linguistics, American studies, philosophy and music history at Columbia University and is the author of "The Language Hoax: Why the World Looks the Same in Any Language." The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) Language changes with the times, and when it comes to our conceptions of gender, the times are most certainly changing. We are opening up to the idea that binary conceptions of gender are unnecessarily rigid and don't correspond to the self-image of a great many people, and even that people's sense of their gender may not correspond to their biological sex. In this new world, a bland opposition between "he" and "she" seems increasingly antique, and even insulting, to many. However, doing something about that is going to be a challenge. We are dealing not with merely giving new names to new things or actions, which is easy, but with using new pronouns, which is very hard. This is hard because human cognition makes some parts of language more resistant to change than others. Nouns, verbs and adjectives, for example, are like software. It feels natural to add them, subtract them, revise them. We expect them to change from era to era -- of course we now have blogs and twerking when we didn't 20 years ago; of course young people now call "fierce" what their equivalents long ago called "keen," "neat," "wicked," "rad," and so on. They are what linguists call open class words. Pronouns, however, are closed class words. As shorthand for any thing or concept, pronouns are used so often and so unconsciously that they are more like hardware. A new object or practice is one thing -- but a new "you" or a new "him" or "her"? It's harder to wrap our minds around changing something so cognitively fundamental, just as one does not pop up with new prepositions: You might wish there were a little word to indicate "on as in upside down on a ceiling, rather than on a wall or floor." But if you made one up it wouldn't catch on -- nouns and verbs are lightbulbs; prepositions are the wiring inside the walls. JUST WATCHED Getting real: Explicit language on TV in the seventies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Getting real: Explicit language on TV in the seventies 02:51 Six-thousand years ago, in the ancestor of most of today's European languages on the Ukranian steppes, while most of the language would have seemed like Hittite to us (because it sort of was!), its speakers were using pronouns that sounded roughly like "me," "you," and "we" (not to mention the "tu" familiar from French and Spanish). That's how hardy pronouns are. This is why previous attempts to fashion gender-neutral pronouns haven't caught on (believe it or not, there were once calls for the blend hesh!), and why as clever as today's "ze" is, its evolution from in-house tradition to society-wide acceptance will be slow at least, and possibly ill-fated. Bias alone will play its part, surely, but even without it, new pronouns require a mental effort analogous to conceiving dimensions beyond the third. If anglophones are to accept new pronouns for new times, two things will be necessary. For example, the truth is that one thing that helps people change their pronoun usage is shame. For example, of all the "blackboard grammar" rules that English speakers are schooled in, such as that two negatives mean a positive or that one must say fewer books rather than less books, only one has truly caught on to the extent that it is part of the grammar actual people use comfortably. It is the rule stipulating that one must say "Billy and I went to the store" rather than "Billy and me," because me is "wrong" as a subject. This is a rule no one imposed on English until a couple hundred years ago, and is unheard of in many other languages like French and Swedish. However, for better or for worse, it has been so successfully drilled into our heads as a mark of basic intelligence and propriety. Now, I would hope that pronouns like "ze" would not be imposed with the knuckle-rapping and contemptuous indignation with which the Billy and I rule has been promulgated. However, there is room for presenting "ze" as a matter not of fashion, but of basic civility -- people must think of new pronouns as the proper thing to do, not as a stunt. To the extent that societies change their pronoun usage, it tends to involve recasting old pronouns, or even expressions, into new functions. European languages like French, for example, use the plural "vous" to address a single person with respect. Spanish's respectful "usted" began as "your mercy," "vuestra merced," not as a brand new little word imposed by fiat. In this light, our own "they" could be handy as a new way to address people gender-neutrally. Many have called for exactly this. And not just recently -- English speakers have been using "they" in the singular for eons. In starchy old "Vanity Fair," William Thackeray writes "A person can't help their birth." Today, we spontaneously use sentences such as "Tell each student they should hand in the paper on Tuesday." However, this is another of those things that we are told is a mark of ignorance because "they is plural." However, our new times may require that we get past that notion, which shouldn't be a problem because it has always been absurd. After all, in French, vous "is plural," yet no one seems to mind. Once upon a time, you "was plural" while thou was used in the singular. Today, you "is" singular as well and no one bats an eye. In the same way, in our "hardware," "they" is both singular and plural. Our new conceptions of gender are a good time to get past the conservatism about singular "they." The naysayers complain about the prospect of sentences like "They is upstairs," but this is a distraction: gender-neutral they should be used, as it has been forever, with plural verb forms: "They are upstairs" will mean that one person is upstairs as well as two or more. "But won't that be confusing?" one may ask -- upon which the answer is another question: When have you been confused as to whether "You are my favorite" referred to yourself or yourself and some other people? Context pulls a great deal of weight in how we communicate. Assessing the prospects of new pronouns like ze and recast pronouns like they, my bet would be on they, in terms of the chances that, in 50 years, everybody is on board and on to the next controversy. What we do know, however, is that we are at a point where anglophones will need to accept some kind of change in how we use the language. Call it a teaching moment --language not only never stops changing, but could not.
(CNN) Colombia's presidential election will head to a runoff next month, since no candidate won 50% of the vote Sunday. With 99.9% of polling stations reporting on Sunday, conservative Ivan Duque was leading with 39% of votes. In second place was leftist Gustavo Petro with 25%, closely trailed by centrist Sergio Fajardo. The election is seen by some observers as a referendum on the country's peace deal with FARC rebels. Six candidates were vying to fill the seat left by departing President Juan Manuel Santos, who was awarded the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to end the long-running civil war between his government and guerillas from FARC, or the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. Under the deal, the rebels agreed to lay down their arms, exit the jungle and pursue their aims via politics rather than guerrilla warfare. Read More
The topic of mental health has cropped up in our Instagram feeds, our TV shows, and our clothing brands all to raise awareness of the fact that mental illness is common, it can affect anyone, and every experience is different. But now an L.A.-based lifestyle brand that created a mental illness jewelry line for the same reasons has sparked an online debate about whether or not its products are sending the right message. A post shared by ban.do (@shopbando) on May 18, 2018 at 1:32pm PDT Ban.do released an exclusive line of necklaces that feature the scripted words "anxiety," "bipolar," and "depression." On its website, founder and chief creative officer Jen Gotch noted that she's had her own personal struggles with mental health, which is why she created the jewelry line to help end the stigma. A post shared by ban.do (@shopbando) on May 22, 2018 at 9:10am PDT "It's so important for us to open up a dialogue about how we are feeling and get to a place where we are comfortable asking for and receiving help," she wrote. "These necklaces are a step in doing that and I hope they can also serve as a conversation starter for people to be more open about what's going on in their minds." But despite her transparency, some social media users claim this method of raising awareness is "offensive" and "romanticizes" mental illness. u can totally tell this is not for awareness tho?? it's for "fashion" and using mental illness for a fashion statement is offensive if u ask me :/ — bad ghrl bri bri Ⓥ (@chinchlady701) May 28, 2018 So first it was the 'cute by psycho' tops and now it's 'bipolar' 'anxiety' and 'depression' necklaces. When will brands stop glamorising mental illness? — Mimi_Sharpe (@Mimi_Sharpe) May 30, 2018 Does it matter? The point was they're romanticising mental illness by putting it into a cute necklace. You wouldn't see people walking about with 'Breast Cancer' or 'HIV' written on a necklace around their neck. — Islay (@AslayIslett) May 28, 2018 In response to one criticism, ban.do clarified on Twitter that its founder Gotch has bipolar disorder and that 100 per cent of the proceeds will go to the Bring Change To Mind, a non-profit organization committed to ending the mental health stigma. these necklaces were designed by our founder jen who has bipolar disorder and all net proceeds from these necklaces go directly to @BC2M, a non-profit organization dedicated to encouraging dialogue about mental health and to raising awareness, understanding, and empathy. — ban.do (@shopbando) May 28, 2018 But while the brand had good intentions, some people are still confused by the statement necklaces and have continued to note how problematic they are. maybe instead of using the actual word, depression/anxiety, use a symbol to represent it? its just a bit odd to walk around with the word depression literally in gold around your neck as if its some kind of wonderful label for us. i appreciate the gesture tho! good luck! — Kitty Tits 😺 (@gotrotheboss) May 28, 2018 everyone knows the proceeds go to a charity and i'm glad it does go to charity but the problem is that this still glamorizes mental illnesses. and just because someone with a mental illness designed the necklaces doesn't make it acceptable. — danielle (@daniellecos_) May 28, 2018 I hate this. I WISH I could take my anxiety off like a necklace but instead it's a choker that gets tighter & tighter when I go out in public, or lay in bed at night, or whenever it wants. Romanticizing mental illness isn't cute. Making profits off of mental illness isn't cute. https://t.co/HWZ0NyVeci — mo huntley (@mohuntley) May 29, 2018 While ban.do has not commented further on the debate, it did note on Twitter that they "appreciate" the positive and negative conversations people are now having about mental illness. The Canadian Mental Health Association reports that one in five people in Canada will experience a mental health problem in any given year, and by age 40, 50 per cent of the population will have had a mental illness. A post shared by Wear Your Label™ (@wearyourlabel) on Sep 5, 2017 at 10:41am PDT Canadian brands have done their part to raise awareness of mental health issues across the country. Bell Canada's annual Bell Let's Talk Day is a prime example, but smaller brands such as Maritime-based clothing company Wear Your Label, which sells items with positive affirmations such as "It's OK not to be OK" and "Self-care isn't selfish," have also done their part to help end the stigma. While mental health has become a hot topic in recent years, especially thanks to pop culture, one social media user made one very important point on ban.do's Instagram page: "News flash: MENTAL ILLNESS IS NOT A TREND. MENTAL ILLNESS IS NOT FUN, ITS NOT COOL, ITS NOT FASHION. DON'T TRY TO MAKE IT SOMETHING ITS NOT." Also on HuffPost:
(CNN) A few years ago, when my girls were in the second and third grades, they raved about the dance breaks they would occasionally have during the school day. Their teachers would put on a video, which encouraged the kids to get up and dance, and then they'd get back to work. "What a brilliant idea," I remember thinking at the time. My kids' teachers were certainly not alone. More teachers are incorporating some form of movement into the school day, especially as the research is pretty clear: Physical activity in school leads to better cognitive performance and fewer behavioral issues, not to mention cutting down on stress and anxiety. Groups such as the National Association of Physical Literacy tout the importance of teaching kids to move while they're young so that they will make movement part of their lives when they grow up. It all seems like a no-brainer, especially as research shows that childhood obesity seems to be getting worse . As former first lady Michelle Obama advocated, let's get our kids to move. The challenge, though, is persuading school administrations to consistently make time for physical activity when they are pressed to meet stringent academic requirements and find the money to pay for some of the training. Research: Physical activity benefits students Just as our schools teach math literacy and reading literacy, they can teach physical literacy, teaching children the basics of movement so that they can stay active for life, said Susan Kamin, chief wellness officer for the National Association of Physical Literacy. The for-profit association provides in-person and online training to teachers and communities and provides "BrainErgizer" videos, five-minute movement videos developed in conjunction with the University of Connecticut based on research on what stimulates the brain. Dr. John Ratey , an associate clinical professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, says activity breaks during the school day create better learners because of the impact of movement on the brain. "When you move, you stimulate all the nerve cells that we use to think with, and when you stimulate those nerve cells, it gets them ready to do stuff," said Ratey, an expert in neuropsychiatry and author of "Spark: The Revolutionary New Science of Exercise and the Brain" who has spent the past 30 years focusing on the "attention systems" of the brain. "When you exercise, you turn on the attention systems, so that means you're (paying) better attention, you're able to deal with more frustration, you're able to stay with it longer," he said. "You're able to manipulate information by turning ... on the front part of our brain to make it work better, and that's really key and important in terms of taking in information as well as performing with it." A recent study, a review of 26 previous studies looking at the impact of physical activity on academic performance, found that kids who get extra physical activity in school do better in reading and math. The study, published in the journal Pediatrics , involved more than 10,000 children between the ages of 4 and 13. It found that physical activity, especially physical education, improves behavior in classrooms and is a boost to academic achievement, especially math-related skills and reading. "The research shows that it leads to better cognitive function for kids so they're going to have better results, academically," Kamin said. "It's also going to help with behavioral issues in the classroom, because if kids are able to move, they're not going to have so much excess energy. They're going to be able to focus, and it's going to solve a lot of the sort of interpersonal issues that come up with kids as well, because they're going to have an opportunity to get that energy out." Breakthrough Magnet School, South, a pre-K through eighth-grade school in Hartford, Connecticut, is in its third year working with the National Association of Physical Literacy. The school had valued movement and mindfulness before, but since the partnership, the school has received additional training and is making physical literacy a key part of the classroom experience, Principal Julie Goldstein said. "I think it really validates a lot of what teachers know: that students need movement, they need planned opportunities for movement and that it can be done in a pretty short, simple way throughout the day and that the benefits of it outweigh the little bit of planning that is necessary in the beginning to kind of get that structured," Goldstein said. Her third- and fourth-graders who are actively engaged in physical literacy are the highest-scoring students in math and literacy within the district, she said. Beyond the benefits academically, there are benefits outside the classroom. For this school year, not one student from this group has been referred to her office for a conversation with the principal. Before they started doing physical literacy, she might have had one or two office referrals every month, she said. "This particular grade level is at the highest risk for misunderstandings, disagreements and even injuries at recess time, and we've had none, so the impact that it is has goes far beyond just the academic and the behaviors in the classroom," she said. "Even during the unstructured times, they're better able to manage themselves, to play independently and to do that in a way so that the recess time actually serves them the way it's intended to, which is to give them time to play and have fun." Using screens to get kids moving Four out of five elementary schools in the United States are using videos from the education company GoNoodle to promote physical activity in the classroom, the company says. The concept is simple: Today's kids have grown up with screens, so GoNoodle tries to use entertaining videos, often about two minutes in length, that will get kids to move around and then either get back to their schoolwork or go off and play with friends. KC Estenson is the chief executive officer of GoNoodle, a for-profit company that makes money through relationships with partners who believe in the company's mission. (The videos are free for schools and parents, although teachers can pay for GoNoodle+, which for $10 a month gives them access to additional videos, games and classroom resources.) Estenson -- who is the former head of CNN Digital -- is a father of three who, like most parents, has struggled with how much time his kids, ages 8, 12 and 14, spend on screens during the day. "GoNoodle gets kids to move. It gets them to be active," Estenson said. "The entire purpose of this is a whole new interaction form with the screen, which is active engagement versus passive engagement, and most television and most of what's happening with the technology now of all ages is passive, binge viewing, hours spent just watching the screen and doing nothing else." The key, he said, is making entertaining content that children (the target group is ages 5 to 12, grades K-6) will enjoy so much that they'll want to get up and dance or do yoga or even some form of meditation and mindfulness. "And so starting from the earliest age ... we're putting positive associations between the right things that are available to them on these screens and hopefully giving them an awesome alternative to the junk food that's out there," said Estenson. 'It really validates ... what teachers know' Active Schools, which was founded as part of Obama's Let's Move initiative, is a national movement, partnering with nonprofits and for profits to try to make physical education and physical activity a bigger part of the school day. The goal is at least 60 minutes of activity per day, which is crucial especially since many kids don't get the play time children used to get outside of school decades ago. There are a variety of reasons why, including the widespread use of digital devices and a lack of access to and time for free play. "One of the biggest pieces of feedback we get from schools in the field is, 'we are very busy places. We appreciate what everyone offers, but it's overwhelming. Can you make it easier for us to know what's available?' " said Charlene Burgeson, executive director of Active Schools. Streamlining to make it less cumbersome for schools to learn what resources are available and what programs they can bring to their school is one challenge. The others are money, time and philosophy. Schools can't always find the funding to pay for formal training, videos and other programs that get kids moving. There is also the pressure of the clock and having enough time to work physical activity in when trying to meet the required academic standards and complete the curriculum. "I know lots of teachers who say, 'Yeah, I wish I had more time to do this,' " the National Association of Physical Literacy's Kamin said. Even in schools that can find the time, there is still some opposition because it's a departure from the way things used to be, she said. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "It's a big change for some of the teachers. They're not sure that they want to make that leap. It's sort of 'if it's not broke, why fix it?' Yet the schools that have made the leap see tremendous results. So how do you move the needle?"
Eleanor McManus was a senior producer for CNN's Larry King Live, and is the cofounder of Trident DMG, a crisis management and strategic communications firm. The opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author. (CNN) The first 10 years of my professional career were spent at CNN. Beginning as a production assistant, I worked my way up to senior producer for "Larry King Live." I had the most amazing opportunities to work incredible news stories, and even met my husband at CNN. I loved everything about TV news -- the excitement, the ability to be part of breaking a story, the adrenaline, and the camaraderie of the entire news team. But my career at CNN -- and in journalism, for that matter -- almost didn't happen. When I was a 21-year-old student, I attended a political event in Boston. Present were several candidates running for president. It was interesting to see political leaders speak in person for the first time, but it wasn't the speeches that intrigued me -- it was the cameras in the back of the room. The media asking questions, trying to break stories, making their news reports -- that was most exciting to me. So I worked up the courage to go to the back of the room to speak with one of the journalists. That's when I met Mark Halperin, who was at that time working for ABC News. He gave me his card, told me to give him a call and said he would help me understand how to get into the business. Fast forward several months later to when I graduated and asked for an informational meeting. I reached out to Mr. Halperin and he asked me to come see him. I was thrilled that someone from ABC News was willing to meet with me -- perhaps that was my way in the door. It was my first official meeting; I even had to buy a suit for the occasion. I don't quite remember what we talked about, but I do remember him asking me to sit down next to him on the couch. I thought it was awkward to sit on the couch when I was perfectly comfortable sitting in the chair across from his desk. But I complied, and I also remember him sitting a little too close to me. JUST WATCHED Analyst on Mark Halperin scandal: 'It wasn't a secret' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Analyst on Mark Halperin scandal: 'It wasn't a secret' 07:14 At one point I felt a bit too uncomfortable, and I stood up to thank him for the meeting. That's when he leaned in, tried to kiss me, and attempted to do a bit more. I didn't want to offend the man in charge of political programming at ABC News, and I tried to be courteous and apologetic, and practically ran out of the office. I was upset not by his actions, but the thought that I did something wrong to encourage that behavior. Was my suit too revealing? Did I lead him on? Was this what I had to expect if I went into broadcast news or journalism? If so, I didn't want any part of it. Luckily, I was resilient back then and I didn't let this situation detour my hopes and dreams. I moved to Washington, DC and studied journalism full-time. When I finally landed a position at CNN on "Larry King Live," I booked celebrities, politicians, and all sorts of newsmakers. One person I vowed never to book on the show was Mark Halperin. If that was my only payback, then so be it. Over the years I've told this story to several people, and only because it irritated me that someone like him became more and more successful and grew through the ranks, getting away with his behavior for so long. It only came to an end this week when CNN reported the accounts of five women who said Halperin had sexually harassed women while at ABC. As difficult a decision as it was, I thought it was time to come forward with my personal story because hopefully other women will have the courage to come forward and tell their own stories, no longer remaining silent for fear of retribution. Looking back, knowing what I know now, I should not have been so courteous and apologetic. I should have told him his actions were wrong and reported him to the ABC News HR department. But, as many have said before me, I was young and naive and didn't want to ruin my career before it even began. JUST WATCHED Not just Hollywood: Survivors share their stories Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Not just Hollywood: Survivors share their stories 02:01 I'm telling my story publicly now because I hope that when this happens again to another young woman, and it will, she will not be so courteous and apologetic. I'm hoping women today will finally speak out in real-time -- when this behavior happens. Women cannot stay silent for fear it will damage their careers, because that only allows the aggressor to continue his behavior with other women. I don't think this behavior will ever go away. But I do hope that from now on, women will finally speak out when it happens to them. Maybe it will empower others -- both men and women -- to stand up for themselves, and predators will no longer be able to get away with their abhorrent behavior. --------- A spokesperson for Halperin declined to comment, but pointed us to Halperin's Wednesday night statement, responding to a CNN article detailing allegations against him by five other women: "During this period, I did pursue relationships with women that I worked with, including some junior to me. I now understand from these accounts that my behavior was inappropriate and caused others pain. For that, I am deeply sorry and I apologize. Under the circumstances, I'm going to take a step back from my day-to-day work while I properly deal with this situation." On Thursday, HBO, which, like CNN, is owned by Time Warner, issued the following statement: "HBO is no longer proceeding with the project tied to the untitled book co-authored by Mark Halperin and John Heilemann on the 2016 Presidential election. HBO has no tolerance for sexual harassment within the company or its productions." A spokesman for MSNBC, where Halperin has worked as a political analyst, said in a statement: "We find the story and the allegations very troubling. Mark Halperin is leaving his role as a contributor until the questions around his past conduct are fully understood."
(CNN) Looking for an easy diet to lose a quick few pounds? If you're searching on the Internet, chances are you've stumbled on something called the "military diet." It's also known as the Navy diet, the Army diet and sometimes the ice cream diet, because in addition to hot dogs and tuna fish, you get to eat ice cream on all three days of the program. Smells fishy, right? Well, hold your nose. It's about to get really stinky. What is the military diet? The military diet is a variation of the ever-popular three-day diet, a crash plan of "fill-in-the-blank" foods to eat if you want to lose weight fast. These diets typically claim that you can lose about 10 pounds in three days to a week if you follow their blueprint to the letter. The meal plans are usually extremely basic and calorie-restrictive, because let's face it, that's how you lose weight. But are these diets healthy? Will the weight stay off? "With this type of low-calorie, lower-carbohydrate diet, you are losing mostly water and potentially some muscle," said registered dietitian Elaine Magee , author of "Tell Me What to Eat If I Have Diabetes." "Water weight drops quickly as the body's glycogen stores decline, which happens when you restrict carbs and calories. Weight will come back when you begin to eat normally again." Could it be that the military diet is different? Here's a breakdown of what's prescribed on days one to three of the military diet, with calories calculated via the US Department of Agriculture's calorie-calculating tool, Supertracker. Breakfast is a cup of caffeinated coffee or tea, one slice of toast with 2 tablespoons of peanut butter and half a grapefruit. That's 308 calories. Lunch is another cup of coffee or tea, a bare-bones slice of toast (whole-wheat is best, they rightly say) and a half-cup of tuna. This meal is tiny, only 139 calories. Dinner is 3 ounces of any meat (that's about the size of a playing card), a cup of green beans, half of a banana and a small apple (not a large apple, even though the calorie difference is minuscule), but wait: You get a whole cup of vanilla ice cream! If you choose steak instead of a lean chicken breast as your entree, this meal equals 619 calories. But even with the steak and the cup of full-fat ice cream, the day adds up to a mere 1,066 calories. No snacks allowed. "If you're used to eating 2,000 to 2,500 calories a day, such a drastic drop will be hard to do," said registered dietitian Lisa Drayer , who writes about nutrition for CNN. "You're going to be tired and irritable, with difficulty concentrating. It will be hard to exercise, and I would think you'll be quite hungry as well." Here's day two's repast. It adds up to only 1,193 calories, even if you pick some higher-fat options. Breakfast is another dry piece of toast, one egg cooked however you like and half of a banana. Let's say you fry your egg in oil. That's 223 calories. Lunch is a hard-boiled egg, five saltine crackers and a cup of cottage cheese. If you choose full-fat cottage cheese, the total is 340 calories. Dinner is half of a banana, a half-cup of carrots, a full cup of broccoli, two hot dogs (that's right!) and another treat: a half-cup of vanilla ice cream. The meal totals 630 calories (if you eat a full-fat pork or beef dog). How does this fare fair? "I never recommend hot dogs or any processed meats," Drayer said, "because they are associated with a higher risk for cancer ." "Ice cream is not a good use of the meager calories," she added. "You could have 3 cups of salad and only eat 100 calories, or other nutritious foods that will be satisfying and hold back the hunger." Day three is the most restrictive, only 762 calories. Breakfast is a slice of cheddar cheese with five saltines and a small apple. That's 232 calories. Lunch is grim: one dry slice of toast and an egg. Even if you fry the egg in oil again, that's a total of 170 calories. Dinner is 460 calories and a stomach-turning combination of half a banana, a full cup of tuna and another cup of ice cream. Maybe they think that by now, you're so hungry, you'll be willing to eat those foods together. The websites promoting the military diet say that eating certain food combinations will boost your metabolism. "There is no truth behind claims that the food combinations in the first few days will increase your metabolism and burn fat," Magee said. "There's no research I know of behind those claims," Drayer agreed. And what about the rest of the week? You round out your week by eating what you like, so long as it's less than 1,500 calories a day. Then you can start on the three-day restrictions again. Best of all, no exercise -- zero, zip, nada -- is said to be needed on this diet. "Yet another fad diet that won't lead to healthy or sustainable weight loss!" Magee said with passion, adding that exercise is "key to lasting weight loss." She also feels there are potential physical and emotional ramifications to diets that restrict and deprive you to this extent. "It can lead to weight cycling, a quick loss and regain of weight, that can weaken your immune system, mess with your metabolic rate and increase the risk of other health problems, such as gallstones and heart trouble," Magee said. Why is it called the military diet? articles, bloggers, Why would such a fad diet be associated with the military? According to various YouTubers and message board posts , it was designed by nutritionists in the US military to drop pounds off recruits who otherwise wouldn't measure up. "What? In my 30 years working with the military, I've never heard of it," said certified nutrition specialist Patricia Deuster , professor at the Uniformed Services University and author of the first US Navy SEAL Nutrition guide. "We did not develop this. We do not use it. It has absolutely no resemblance to the real military diet. Even our rations are healthier and more nutritionally sound," Deuster said. "It looks like they just took the name 'military' and added it to the diet and capitalized on it." "The Birmingham Hospital Diet did not originate with the University of Alabama at Birmingham, and we do not support or recommend it," university public relations manager Bob Shepard said. "This diet has absolutely no connection to UAB Hospital other than the often repeated but false Internet rumors." Oh? "It is unfortunate our name has been associated with this diet," the Cleveland Clinic said in a statement. "We have never endorsed this meal plan, and it does not meet the standards for what we would consider a healthy diet for heart health or overall well-being." And? "The American Heart Association is not -- and never has been -- associated with this diet." "This didn't come from us, despite the use of the word Kaiser. Kaiser Permanente supports a balanced diet, rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains." "None of these diets, including the three-day diet, was developed at or ever associated with Mayo Clinic," said Dr. Donald Hensrud, director of the Mayo Clinic Healthy Living Program and medical editor of the real Mayo Clinic Diet. "It is likely the originators tried to capitalize on Mayo Clinic's brand recognition as a way of promoting these diets." Where did this diet come from? If you search the Internet for the military diet, you'll probably end up on the top result: themilitarydiet.com . There, you'll find the detailed diet, with pictures and tips on how to make it work for you. There are substitutions, frequently asked questions, a blog, a calorie count, a link to like them on Facebook and a review that fights back against nutritionists who debunk the diet. Oh, and there are lots of ads. But nowhere on the page is there an author, an expert, a nutritional guru. No one takes ownership of this information or gives you any credentials to prove their expertise. "That's a red flag," Drayer said. "Any helpful diet plan should be created or supported by a credible person or resource or organization. If something is out there without any author or inventor, anyone can say anything and not know how the body works." Trying to track down the owners of three of the most popular military diet sites proved to be a dead end. Emails and calls to listed numbers got no responses. How diet misinformation spreads "Due to our democratic process, we have a wide-open information environment in the US," said Brian Southwell, editor of a new book on fake news called " Misinformation and Mass Audiences ." "There's no careful censoring of false information." Add to that the fact that science still doesn't have the "perfect" solution for weight loss and maintenance, he said, and you've got an area that is ripe for exploitation. "These dieting sites have a catchy name, the promise of lineage to established institutions, and that is what tends to spread across the Internet, instead of a peer-reviewed study," said Southwell, who directs the Science in the Public Sphere program at the nonprofit research group RTI Internationa l. "And just like direct mail, if you get 5% of people to click through, you can make a huge profit. It doesn't cost much to unleash stuff online." Drayer agreed. "I think a lot of people just want to know the next dieting magic bullet, quick fix, and they just go for these fad things." But why are so many of us fooled in the first place? The failure of some people's "BS detectors" when they encounter fake information can be explained, Southwell said, by what science now knows about how the brain processes data. Instead of sorting the good from bad as the information arrives, the brain accepts it all, "and then in another part of the brain, it's tagged as true or false." "It leaves open this window of opportunity," he explained, "so people believe just long enough and then get tired, distracted, and what happens? They get sucked in. They might be skeptical at first but fail to do the research and think, 'well, maybe this will work. This might be my solution.' " The fact that so many of us share our discoveries with friends and loved ones on social accounts fuels the misinformation fire. Southwell calls it "social contagion." "It's like the dynamics of infectious disease. You've spread the disease before you've even come down with it, " he explained. "You find it, you share, you read more and find out that it's not effective, or you try it out and you're disappointed. But the genie is out of the bottle already." According to Southwell, that's exactly what many of these sites are counting on. "It doesn't matter if it ultimately gets debunked, because it's going to take a while for it to reach the same numbers of people as the original rumor or fake diet," he explained. "And the debunking is not as sexy as the original diet lure. "In the meantime, you might see the spread of unhealthy dieting behavior, and for some people with certain diseases or conditions, that can cause real harm," Southwell said, such as heart disease or diabetes. "But it can't be traced back. Who is culpable for that?" Healthy ways to lose fast? Let's face it. We still want a quick way to lose 5 or 10 pounds fast, just in time for that special occasion. Is it possible to do so in a healthy way? "I will prescribe a modified three-day diet just to jump-start weight loss," Drayer said. "I typically recommend increasing your water intake and eliminating all starchy carbs like breads, pasta, cereal and rice, as well as sweets and treats for one week. Doing this not only cuts calories, but you also shed some extra water too, which can be motivating as the numbers on the scale go down." For those who drink their calories, Drayer recommends slashing sugary beverages such as sodas, flavored lattes, fruit juices and smoothies, "as the calories from these beverages can really add up." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Magee prefers to trick the body into losing weight, to avoid what she calls a starvation backlash. "When you decrease your calories so severely as they do in the three-day military diet, your body tends to go into conservation mode and actually burns fewer calories," she said, "because it thinks you are entering a potato famine or similar, and it wants to survive. "I think it's better to trick your body into burning calories by decreasing the calories you eat a little, increasing exercise to burn more calories, to create a daily deficit of about 250 calories a day," she explains. "It's slower but more sustained weight loss, and you are more likely to lose body fat rather than muscle tissue and water." Regardless of what method you try, said Drayer, remember that any diet should be cleared by your nutritionist or doctor before you begin. And when it comes to the three-day military diet, she concluded: "I can't imagine any doctor or expert endorsing the military diet as healthy or beneficial in any way."
"When you go to (the shows), they tend to be all about the animals -- people photographing the animals," Woodward said. "I just wanted to turn my attention onto the people because they're so committed to what they do. They're really devoted and hardworking." While those involved with the competitions are the focus of many press photographers, Woodward's work stands out for its distinctive portraiture style. "My work is a bit more composed. I use a medium-format camera and a tripod, so it is a bit more static in a way," she said. "I think everybody is so proud of their animals that when I said to them that, 'I'd love a portrait of you and your cow,' everyone was more than willing to give up their time and help because they're so passionate about what they do." Photographer Jooney Woodward The "Best in Show" portraits lead viewers down a winding pathway to ponder those inexplicable yet noticeable connections and bonds that exist between the handlers and their animals. Woodward's photos also contain subtle details. For example, the symbols and signs on the wall behind Wendy and her Hereford yearling heifer Mandalay Juliette are just as significant as the handler and her animal. "It's just the way (Wendy) had gone through the effort of decorating the pen (with Union Jacks) where the cows were being kept," Woodward said. "There's also a sign behind (her) ... and there's a picture of a gentleman with a cow, who is actually her husband who had died a few years ago. ... I just thought that was nice, something quite sentimental about that." There are not only sentimental subtleties within "Best in Show," but also fun and interesting ones as well. This is especially evident in the photo of the traditional Welsh pigs being judged, as Woodward points out there is an advertisement for sausages behind the pigs. I just wanted to turn my attention onto the people because they're so committed to what they do. They're really devoted and hardworking. Photographer Jooney Woodward Regardless of what elements make up Woodward's photos, the emotions and aesthetics remain particularly important. Woodward said that when photographing Jamie and his Jersey cow, his happiness and smile made her want to "share that sense of enjoyment" that handlers have when competing with their animals in the shows. What drew Woodward to Harriet and her guinea pig Gentleman Jack were the similar colors radiating from both of them. Her photo of the pair won the National Portrait Gallery's Taylor Wessing Photographic Portrait Prize in 2011. "(Harriet) was like a steward, she was sort of judging the guinea pigs. And she also had her own guinea pig with her, which had red as well," Woodward said. "I just thought that was incredibly striking. I thought, 'I've got to get a shot of that.' " The dynamics of the competitions foster a community atmosphere in which everybody becomes acquainted with one another after having traveled to different shows for so many years. Woodward said this was an enjoyable aspect of her work because "you get to see lots of familiar faces." Social media Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. She has learned about the pride the handlers have toward their animals, and many of her presumptions about the competitions have now changed after having worked on "Best in Show." "I think when I first started going, I was sort of thinking the shows would be more novelty, fun things for these people," she said. "But, actually, it isn't really; it's quite a serious thing, because they can make money from breeding." In addition to handlers earning significant money from breeding, they are also able to achieve recognition for their livestock. Those competing have a lot at stake when they make the decision to travel and compete, because the shows are just as much business events as they are social gatherings. The competitions are also rather family-oriented, and Woodward said that while adults compete, their sons, daughters and grandchildren are involved as well. The younger generations are likely to one day take over the responsibility of running the family farms, and everyone that participates seems to have a strong sense of pride and passion for agriculture. "I think it's something I will always document for the rest of my life, and see how things change," Woodward said. "It was challenging, insightful and fun."
Saturday’s royal wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle attracted quite the celebrity crowd. Idris Elba, George and Amal Clooney, Oprah Winfrey, James Blunt and David and Victoria Beckham were among the dozens of famous faces spotted walking into St. George’s Chapel in Windsor, England, for the ceremony:
John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion who focuses on climate change and social justice. Follow him on Snapchat , Facebook and email . This story is part of CNN's " Vanishing " series. Learn more about the sixth extinction and get involved . Its construction-crane neck, toothpick legs, knocked knees and two-story stature make it an awkwardly lovable favorite of children's book authors and cartoonists. This animal brings an odd sort of wonder to the savannahs of Africa. But perhaps it's best for us to start imagining a world without the humble giraffe. It moves up from the category called "least concern." The reason: a sharp 36% to 40% decline in giraffe populations in recent decades. In 1985, the group said, there were as many as 163,452 giraffes. Now the estimate is 97,562. This puts the giraffe in good company. The elephant, the orangutan, certain bees, coral -- so many of the Earth's mind-blowingly cool creatures face extinction risk these days. If poaching rates continue, some fear African elephants will be extinct in 20 years. Scientists worry coral reefs will mostly vanish by 2050 because humans continue pumping fossil fuels into the atmosphere, warming up the oceans and making them more acidic, and making life hard for coral. I've spent much of 2016 reporting on the mass extinction event that's brewing all around the world for a CNN series called "Vanishing." That reporting will debut on CNN International on Friday and on this website Monday morning. If there's one take-away from my travels, it's this: We can't take species for granted. We too often assume they'll survive one generation to the next -- that those elephants or giraffes will be out there, somewhere. They won't. Not unless we humans drastically change our ways. In California, I met with Anthony Barnosky, executive director of Stanford University's Jasper Ridge Biological Preserve , and a global expert on extinction. He told me that we humans have -- at the very most -- 20 years to change the way we treat nature or we will bring about the sixth mass extinction event in the entire history of Earth. We are talking dinosaur-ending stuff here -- as in three-quarters of all known species, not just the cute and iconic ones, could vanish in a couple of centuries. Having trouble imagining that world? "The best way to envision the sixth mass extinction is to look outside and then just imagine that three out of every four of the species that were common out there are gone," he said. "That would be a very impoverished landscape." It certainly would. If you're not moved by that, consider the consequences for humans, too. "We are basically annihilating the life on our planet -- and that is the only known life ... in the entire universe," Paul Ehrlich, also of Stanford, told me. "It's life that shaped the planet, that made it possible for us to live here. It's life that still makes it possible for us to live here. (If) we don't have the diversity of other organisms, we're done." What's causing the collapse? Barnosky has boiled it all down to three words: "power, food and money." Power, meaning we're burning fossil fuels for electricity, transit and heat. That's warming the planet and wreaking havoc all over the world. We're not just talking polar bears here -- amphibians, oceans, everything is affected. By food, he's referring to the fact that humans have plowed up or otherwise altered about 40% of the Earth's surface, he said, for agricultural production, much of it for livestock. Some biologists think we have to set aside huge chunks of land -- 50% of the Earth, according to Harvard University's E.O. Wilson -- to stop the sixth extinction from occurring, or to lessen its scope. Add the population boom to this and you can see why farms are going to be a big issue this century. Finally, money. That means poaching -- illegal networks are decimating the populations of some animals, including elephants, rhinos and the pangolin . And it means thinking of nature as an endless vat of cash. "How do we get off of treating nature as this bottomless checking account and begin to treat it as an investment account, where we're living off the interest?" Barnosky asked during our interview. I'm not sure how we'll change. But I have to hope that understanding the scope of this crisis is part of moving toward solutions. Giraffes are constricted by human development; they're poached for their tails, which are used as bracelets, and for their meat, according to the African Wildlife Foundation . We shouldn't see the giraffe's plight as an isolated crisis. Humans are reshaping the face of Earth as never before. It happens in slow motion, making us easily distracted from the cumulative destruction one generation passes to the next. And many of us are so disconnected from nature -- we see it through car windows, from the suburbs, on safari -- that we don't realize the scope of our responsibility in this collapse. Imagine a world without giraffes. In the long term, without big changes, that's what we reasonably can expect.
Caroline Polisi is a federal and white collar criminal defense attorney in New York City and is Of Counsel at Pierce Bainbridge. She frequently appears on CNN as a legal analyst and is an anchor at the Law & Crime Network, providing live legal analysis on high profile court cases. Follow her on Twitter: @CarolinePolisi . The views expressed in this commentary are her own. (CNN) Harvey Weinstein's voluntary surrender to the NYPD is a long-awaited victory for the #MeToo movement: Weinstein will actually be held criminally responsible for his alleged conduct -- he faces charges that he raped one woman and forced another to perform oral sex on him. As far too many victims know, most who perpetrate such criminal acts are almost never held accountable. Now it has. We are no longer simply at a cultural inflection point surrounding our long collective tolerance of sexual assault; we are at a legal inflection point as well. Cy Vance, Manhattan's district attorney, drew scathing rebuke for his failure to make a criminal case against Weinstein in 2015 even when presented with evidence of the NYPD's undercover sting operation, which produced an apparent admission by Weinstein, captured on audio , that he had touched the breast of Ambra Battilana Gutierrez. ("Why yesterday you touch my breast?," she asks Weinstein on the recording. "Oh, please. I'm sorry. Just come on in. I'm used to that," he replies, adding "I won't do it again. Come on, sit here. Sit here for a minute, please?") And many of Weinstein's accusers had signed non-disclosure agreements with him and/or the Weinstein Company after complaints were raised, making a delayed criminal prosecution of him more difficult for authorities. On Friday, however, such a prosecution had its first steps with the sexual assault charges against Weinstein. They stem from his alleged conduct against Lucia Evans, an actor who said that Weinstein forced her to engage in oral sex with him in 2004 at the Miramax office in TriBeCa. The alleged rape victim has not been identified. JUST WATCHED How #MeToo made a difference in the workplace Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How #MeToo made a difference in the workplace 02:48 Weinstein's representative has said he sought treatment after the accusations and said any allegations of nonconsensual sex were "unequivocally denied." If Weinstein seeks to go to trial on these charges, he could learn some lessons from Bill Cosby's sexual assault trials for the aggravated indecent assault of Andrea Constand. Weinstein will likely be faced with the same problem as Cosby: there will be many, many alleged prior victims willing to testify against Weinstein, potentially helping prosecutors show a criminal pattern or practice of Weinstein over the course of many years. In Cosby's June 2017 criminal trial, which took place before news of the Weinstein scandal broke, prosecutors sought to introduce testimony from 13 of Cosby's prior accusers, but the judge only allowed one to testify. In Cosby's retrial -- after the #MeToo movement -- t he same judge allowed five such witnesses to testify. There is no other reasonable explanation for why the judge changed his mind from one trial to the next regarding these witnesses other than that such evidence suddenly seemed more relevant (and we will see how that issue plays out with Cosby's inevitable appeal). Quite simply, the #MeToo movement has so fundamentally altered our collective consciousness -- and conscience -- (and therefore, one surmises, that of juries) that Cosby never stood a chance in his second trial. So what is next for Weinstein legally? He will be afforded all of the due process rights that criminal defendants enjoy in our justice system every day, and he's got one of the best criminal defense attorneys in town defending him. In all likelihood, Weinstein will take a deal, rather than risk going to trial, and serve his time. And his victims will be able to take some comfort in his finally being held liable for his alleged crimes -- and even more so in the knowledge that the future Harvey Weinsteins of the world will be brought to justice in a post-#MeToo legal system.
Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review, and a former CNN producer and correspondent. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. (CNN) As America approaches the end of Donald Trump's first year as President , one point on which the entire country can agree is that this has been a year like no other in the nation's history. If the polls are to be believed, most of us see Trump's presidency so far as a slow-motion calamity. And yet, not every development in the last year has been negative. The Trump presidency has energized the country and given it a new mood of seriousness. It has reminded America about its priorities and caused its people to ponder important questions. Even if he has done so unwittingly, we can thank President Trump for bringing some exciting changes to the country. Here are five of Donald Trump's greatest unintentional accomplishments. Sparking the women's movement and a conversation about decency It all started before he came into office, when voters heard and saw how he talked to and about women. We heard the women who accused him of sexual harassment; we saw how he disparaged women on the campaign trail ; and we saw that he became President in spite of it all. On the day after the inauguration, millions of women took to the streets around the world to make it clear that women would not sit back and watch Trump's style become the new normal. The women's march became likely the largest single day demonstration in US history. JUST WATCHED The year feminism fought back Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The year feminism fought back 05:04 And that was just the beginning. As the backlash against sexism has continued, courageous women revealed the extent of abuse they have experienced in all facets of life. The #MeToo movement took down some of the most prominent figures in journalism, entertainment, politics and elsewhere. And the tsunami against abuse is still raging. It's no wonder "feminism" is Merriam-Webster's word of the year, its most searched term. And the best is still to come. The next elections should bring a tide of women to public office. EMILY's List, the group that helps women political candidates, reportedly says last year it had heard from about 1,000 women interested in getting its support. This year, the number skyrocketed to 22,000 Killing apathy Trump's presidency has electrified the country, creating a sense of energy and urgency unlike anything the United States had seen in at least a generation. Today, even people who routinely muttered, "I hate politics," and stayed uninvolved, are bristling with political thoughts and following the latest news about Trump's legislative agenda, the Russia investigation, and matters as obscure as the gap between what Trump says and what his secretary of state argues. Americans have discovered that political apathy is a luxury better left to people living in countries where they trust their government. Raising the question: What really makes America great? As soon as he took office, Trump started trying to enact the agenda that he claimed would Make America Great Again. But to millions of Americans, Trump's agenda and rhetoric seemed to highlight precisely the opposite. Trump forced many who had not given the matter much thought to consider what exactly it is that makes America great: its pursuit of ideals such as respect for the individual, for a free press, for equality; and the sacred notion of "rule of law," that no individual, however powerful, stands above the law or should wield his power to interfere with justice. JUST WATCHED Meet the black man who befriends KKK leaders Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet the black man who befriends KKK leaders 03:24 Trump helped us understand the difference between patriotism and nationalism. Patriotism is love for one's country. It compels us to protect those characteristics that make it worth loving, and to strive to bring the country closer to its ideals. Nationalism, on the other hand, is what Trump preaches in his MAGA creed. It is an attitude of superiority, tainted with notions of ethnic and religious supremacy. Reinvigorating journalism When historians look back at the Trump era, they will note that Trump spawned a golden age of journalism. Even as Trump declared war on the media, casting doubt on any piece of news he found unflattering by calling it "fake news," serious journalists went to work with more determination than ever. Sure, journalists made mistakes, and when discovered, they were promptly corrected. That stands in sharp contrast to Trump's avalanche of lies. By The New York Times' count, Trump has told nearly six times as many falsehoods in 10 months than Barack Obama told in eight years as President. Trump succeeded in confusing the public and blurring reality. It was all in keeping with his gaslighting technique . But the reality-based media fought back with facts and with in-depth reporting that brought Americans history-changing truths. JUST WATCHED Blumenthal: Now is the time for us to unite Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Blumenthal: Now is the time for us to unite 02:34 Giving satire a shot in the arm While Trump made Americans more serious, he also made comedians much funnier. Political humor blossomed like never before. Observers noted that the President himself hardly ever laughs unless in the company of adoring crowds, with his sense of humor limited to mocks and insults. JUST WATCHED 'SNL': Trump trims Christmas tree with 'losers' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'SNL': Trump trims Christmas tree with 'losers' 01:30 But for professional humorists, Trump was a godsend. The bittersweet cracks propelled the ruthlessly brilliant Stephen Colbert to new levels of hilarity, and the more Trump-centered his jokes became, the higher his ratings climbed. So, you see, it hasn't all been bad. Perhaps Vladimir Putin is right when he says Trump has made significant achievements. Although, this is probably not what Putin or what Trump has in mind when he falsely claims he has accomplished more than any of his predecessors. It's more along the lines of Colbert's comment after Roy Moore lost the election in Alabama, when he said , "I'm a little shaky ... due to a condition my doctor calls 'hope.'" These are at least five achievements from the Trump administration that can give Americans that same hope.
Washington (CNN) On the surface, Ann Bryant and Jennifer Gibson could not be more alike. Both are white women without college degrees. Both live in North Carolina. Both think America's best days are ahead of it. But their shared optimism stems from sharply different assessments of the country's current state of affairs. Bryant, a retired nurse who says she lives comfortably in New Bern, North Carolina, sees an improving economy, neighbors whose children are purchasing their first homes and general prosperity. She also says she will probably vote for Hillary Clinton. "I see improvement in people's wages," said Bryant, who declined to give her age except to say that she is a senior citizen. "The way they dress. When I go to the grocery store, I see people with big baskets of food. People look like they're doing well. I just think that things are better all the way around." For her part, Gibson, 63, sees a country overrun by immigrants and refugees with alien values, living on the dole, taking jobs and benefits away from native-born Americans. She says political leaders in Washington are out of touch with the concerns of people like her and that her optimism for the future is based on her belief that Donald Trump will win the presidency. "Right now everything is in one hell of a mess, and I believe that Trump is going to come in and clean things up," she said. Far from a monolith The white working class, which forms the core of Trump's support, is often treated as a monolithic entity, both in its beliefs and its images. But an extensive survey of whites with less than a four-year college degree conducted by CNN and the Kaiser Family Foundation paints a picture of an often-ignored demographic that belies the stereotypic images of Midwestern steel workers toting lunch pails to work, or golden-hearted cashiers working at Walmart or laid-off coal miners in Appalachia sitting around, chugging beer and seething in resentment. What the poll discovered is that, as much as the white working class differs in attitudes and experience from college-educated whites and from working-class blacks and Hispanics, it presents an intriguing mosaic within its demographic group. Far from being monolithic, the white working class has sharp divisions based on age, geography, income, gender and religion. These differences show up in their views towards immigration and racial and ethnic diversity; optimism about the direction of their lives and their children's future; their opinion about government or their support for Donald Trump. "We went into this poll trying to keep an open mind and not look at the white working class as a monolithic group," said Liz Hamel, director of public opinion and survey research at the Kaiser Family Foundation. For example, urban-dwelling members of the white working class are more optimistic about America's future than their counterparts in rural areas. Almost three-quarters of working-class whites younger than 30 who were surveyed believe increasing racial and ethnic diversity is enriching the country's culture, while about half of those older than 65 who were surveyed do. Southern whites who have not attended college are twice as likely as those in other regions to say they have been negatively impacted by undocumented immigrants taking jobs in their community. Southern working-class whites are the most pessimistic about the country's future. Only 37% of working-class whites in the South who were surveyed believe the country's "best days are ahead of us," compared to nearly half those in the West and 52% in the Northeast. Evangelical Christians and those living in rural areas tend to be the most downcast about the future. JUST WATCHED White working class says Christian values under attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH White working class says Christian values under attack 03:42 About 60% of working-class whites surveyed who say they are evangelical Christians say the country's best days are behind us, compared to 42% of Catholics, 53% of mainline Protestants and 42% who say they have no religion. Similarly, 41% of those surveyed living in urban areas say America's best days are behind us, while nearly 60% of those in rural areas feel that way. Wanting more from the government Differences also show up strongly with regard to the anger that the white working class feels toward government. The survey found 69% of those earning less than $30,000 say the federal government is not doing enough to help them and people like them. That's more than twice the 31% of those earning $75,000 or more who feel that way. "You can go back the last 50 years and it's always the same," says Tim Bequette, 56, a retired truck driver who lives on disability in Farmington, Missouri. "Politicians make all kinds of promises. But when they get elected they only pay attention to people who have money. If you've got money, you can get what you want. If you don't have money, nothing happens." Ironically, or perhaps due to the fact that their incomes are lower, a larger percentage of people, 63%, who receive at least one government benefit, excluding Social Security and Medicare, say the government isn't doing enough for them. That's compared to the 47% who feel that way even though they receive no government aid. Fully 71% of rural working-class whites blame the government for economic problems facing the working class, compared to 51% of working-class whites who live in cities. Rage at the government is felt most acutely by older white working-class men. Nearly 80% of the men over than age of 50 who were surveyed say the government bares all or most of the blame for the problems facing the white working class. About 53% of women in that age group who were polled agree. But despite the anger expressed toward the government and the pessimism about the country's future, majorities of working-class whites surveyed -- regardless of age, income, region, religion and gender -- say they are satisfied with their personal financial situation. "I'm pretty happy overall with the place that I am," said Amanda, 28, who lives in Overton, Texas, and only wants to be identified by her first name. "I have a low mortgage. My kids are going to good schools. My job is relatively stable." Chad Fritz, 42, says he is not concerned about immigrants. "Trade deals concern me more," he says. "I'm more concerned about losing jobs than people taking jobs, which is what many people say immigrants do. But I feel the jobs they're taking are jobs Americans don't really want to do. I don't want to go pick apples and oranges, and those are the type of jobs immigrants are doing." Fritz lives in Delaware, Ohio. He is a stay-at-home dad, taking care of his one-year-old son during the week while his wife works as a CPA in nearby Columbus. On many weekends he works as a glass blower. The Columbus metro area is an economic powerhouse with low unemployment, rising home prices and high median incomes. Fritz acknowledges that the strength of the local economy influences his attitude. "Columbus is a growing city," he said. "It's booming. It's doing very well. There are lots of jobs. I might have a different view if I lived somewhere else." The politics of the white working class While support for Trump is relatively strong across the board among working-class whites, there are significant differences among different groups. Men over the age of 50 are among the Republican nominee's strongest backers with 68% of voters in this group saying they would consider voting for him, compared to 51% of women who are 50 years or older. Rural (68%), suburban (66%) and Southern (70%) working-class white voters voice support for Trump in larger numbers than urban dwellers (49%) and those living in the West (54%) and Midwest (53%). And 78% of working-class white voters surveyed who say immigrants are a burden on the country say they would consider voting for him, compared to 38% who of those who believe immigrants strengthen the country. Amanda, of Overton, Texas, and Ann Bryant say they are supporting Clinton. Bequette and Jennifer Gibson back Trump. Chad Fritz is undecided, but doesn't like either Trump or Clinton. He is trying to decide between Green Party nominee Jill Stein and the Libertarian candidate (Gary Johnson), whose name he couldn't remember. Working-class whites are clearly more hostile to immigration and the nation's increasing racial and ethnic diversity. Respondents were asked which comes closer to their view: that immigrants strengthen the country because of their hard work and talents, or immigrants are a burden on the country because they take our jobs, housing and health care. Nearly half (47%) of those surveyed say it's the latter. More than half (55%) say they think the government should try to deport all people living in the country illegally. Also, compared to college-educated whites or black or Hispanic working-class people, working-class whites are more likely to say immigrants from Muslim countries increase the risk of terrorist attacks or that recent immigrants from Latin America take jobs away from Americans or add to the crime problem. Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: CNN/KFF Poll Results on Immigration Hide Caption 11 of 11 "Obama agreed to let all them refugees come in and give them a place to live," said Bequette, the retired truck driver. "Yet you see hundreds of thousands of Vietnam vets living on the streets. The politicians are more worried about being politically correct and about what other countries think about us than they do Americans." But that hostility is not shared equally across the board. Sixty-one percent of rural white working-class surveyed say the government should try to deport all those in the country illegally, compared to 49% of urban dwellers. Moreover, compared to other religions, evangelical Christians are more likely to say that increasing diversity is threatening, rather than enriching American culture; believe that immigrants from Muslim countries increase the risk of terrorism, add to the crime problem, and take jobs away from Americans; and are less likely to say that these immigrants are "basically good, honest people." "Half the people coming in are young men," Gibson, who describes herself as Pentecostal, says of Muslim refugees. "I feel sorry for the women and children. We need to make a place for them over there. The guys? I don't feel sorry for them at all. They need to turn their asses around and pick up a gun and fight for their country. Our guys are fighting for their country. They should too, instead of running over here." Fritz, who says he has no problems with immigrants, says he was raised Catholic but hasn't been to church in 20 years. "I'm not a church-type person," he says. "But, from a sense of morals, I like to think I have Christian values."
Jay Parini , a poet and novelist, teaches at Middlebury College in Vermont. His newest book is " Empire of Self: A Life of Gore Vidal," which comes out in October. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) What the American public craves is authenticity: a sense that the men and women we elect are, like us, flesh-and-blood creatures who celebrate and grieve, who dance and despair. But it's rare to see politician reveal his or her vulnerability before a mass television audience. And that is why Vice President Joe Biden's appearance on "The Late Show" with Stephen Colbert on Thursday night was so uncommonly moving. In the face of Biden's offhand honesty, passion and wrenching humanity as he discussed his beloved son Beau's death from brain cancer earlier this summer, it is almost embarrassing to acknowledge that it made for "good television." It was life happening before our eyes, the kind of life we find in our own living rooms and kitchens. Real conversation about the human experience is something we don't expect on late night -- from arch hosts, and particularly from politicians, who often seem like pieces of Styrofoam. The Biden appearance slapped the nation awake, reminding us that we've become almost numb as we listen to the excuses, the prevarications, the bragging, the naked vanity that seems to dominate both major parties in this election season. Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Stephen Colbert talks with George Clooney during the premiere episode of "The Late Show," which he took over on Tuesday, September 8. Colbert's rise includes a number of notable moments. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert, left, was originally one of "The Daily Show's" correspondents. He began with the show during its Craig Kilborn era and stayed when Jon Stewart, center, came to host in 1999. Others on the show included, from left, Ed Helms, Rob Corddry and Samantha Bee. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert While appearing on "The Daily Show," Colbert was also part of the cast of "Strangers with Candy," a comedy series with Amy Sedaris and Paul Dinello. He met the pair while he was a member of the Second City comedy troupe in the early '90s. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert As a "correspondent" and later an anchor, Colbert developed a character that has been, at turns, pompous, pious and egocentric -- basing the persona on many others in television. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert As correspondent, Colbert was key to "The Daily Show's" election coverage. Here he takes part in Election Night 2004. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert's work on "The Daily Show" contributed to a number of awards -- including several Emmys. He poses here with, left to right, Rob Corddry, host Jon Stewart, Ed Helms and Samantha Bee. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert earned praise -- and notoriety -- for his hosting of the 2006 White House Correspondents Dinner . In character, his barbs about President George W. Bush and the political news media drew blood. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert On "The Colbert Report" -- and that's pronounced "Col-bear Rap-pour" -- Colbert highlights the foibles of politicians with such segments as "Better Know a District," a proposed 435-part series in which he offers a take on every House District. The representatives he interviewed sometimes haven't been aware of the joke. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Very quickly, Colbert's influence rose so high that he got his own Ben & Jerry's ice cream flavor: AmeriCone Dream. Here he poses with Ben Cohen, left, and Jerry Greenfield at the flavor's launch party. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert The White House hasn't been immune to Colbert's charms. He showed up for a mock press conference in 2007. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert "The Daily Show" may have won a bunch of Emmy awards, but in 2013 "The Colbert Report" broke its streak of 10 straight awards for outstanding variety series. It's also won two Emmys for writing, as well as two Peabodys. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert hosted a roast for then congressman -- and later Chicago mayor -- Rahm Emanuel in 2008. Colbert, a South Carolina native, has ties with Chicago, having gone to college at Northwestern, in nearby Evanston, and worked in the city's comedy scene. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert's awards haul isn't limited to Emmys and Peabodys. In 2010 he won a Grammy for his Christmas album and four years later won another for best spoken-word album. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert In September 2010, Colbert testified at a hearing on immigration. He took time to chat with Phil Glaize, chairman of the U.S. Apple Association, left, and Arturo Rodriguez, president of the United Farm Workers. Again, some representatives didn't get Colbert Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert In October 2010 Colbert teamed up with Stewart for a Washington rally, "Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear." Stewart handled the sanity; Colbert took care of the fear. The rally was a response, sort of, to rallies led by Glenn Beck and Al Sharpton. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert's character definitely loves himself. He went so far as to lick himself during the unveiling of his wax figure at the Madame Tussauds wax museum in Washington in 2012. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert may be responsible for Bill Clinton being on Twitter. When the former president appeared on his show in 2013, Colbert set up an account, @PrezBillyJeff. Clinton later set up his real account, @billclinton. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert, a devout Catholic, has taught Sunday school and talked about social justice. He spoke at the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights 2013 Ripple of Hope Awards dinner. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert faces a changed talk-show landscape. Jimmy Fallon, left, has gotten off to a fast start as new "Tonight Show" host on NBC, and ABC's Jimmy Kimmel also has a strong fan base. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Funnyman Stephen Colbert Colbert takes a selfie with Letterman on the "Late Show with David Letterman" in April 2014. CBS began to introduce the next host of the "Late Show" by having its current host interview him. Hide Caption 20 of 20 Is it just me, or has it gotten horribly worse Isn't this why we crave somebody like Joe Biden, somebody willing to reveal his pain, his fear, his frailty and nobility? It seems unlikely now that Biden will run, not after this interview, where Stephen Colbert — the most gifted interviewer in America today -- brought up "the elephant in the room," which he cleverly suggested was really a donkey. He referred to the pressing political question of the moment: Will Joe Biden challenge Hillary Clinton and others in the ongoing Democratic primary? A lot hung on his answer, and the whole nation leaned forward to listen. Biden was shockingly frank for a man under the klieg lights. His face was extremely mobile, with a range of emotion flickering as he dipped his eyes to the floor and seemed to wince. A vast audience saw the obvious truth: Here is father grieving for beloved son, Beau, who died of brain cancer only a few months ago. The rawness of his feelings were vividly on display. Biden was frank, saying: "I don't think any man or woman should run for president unless, number one, they know exactly why they would want to be president and, number two, they can look at folks out there and say, 'I promise you, you have my whole heart, my whole soul, my energy, and my passion to do this." One could hear a pin drop in the audience, which held its breath. "And I'd be lying if I said that I knew I was there," Biden added, more or less putting the kibosh on a presidential bid. Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden U.S. Vice President Joe Biden began his career in politics in 1972, winning election to the Senate at the age of 29 (he was 30 when he took office). The Delaware Democrat was reelected to the Senate six times, including 2008, before becoming the 47th vice president of the United States. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden Biden is sworn in for his second term as vice president by Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor, with his wife, Jill, and son, Beau, by his side, on January 21, 2013, in Washington. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden Biden presides over a ceremony in Baghdad to formally mark the end of the U.S. combat mission in Iraq on September 1, 2010. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden Biden and President-elect Barack Obama wave to the crowd at their election night party at Grant Park in Chicago on November 4, 2008. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden Biden speaks after being introduced as Obama's running mate while campaigning together after the Democratic National Convention in 2008. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden From left, former Sen. John Edwards, Biden, Obama and Sen. Hillary Clinton at a debate of Democratic presidential candidates on April 26, 2007, in Orangeburg, South Carolina. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden Biden releases his memoir, "Promises to Keep: On Life and Politics," in 2007. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden As a ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Biden is interviewed on NBC's "Meet the Press," concerning the war in Iraq on August 14, 2005. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden While chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Biden meets Afghan students during a visit to Kabul in 2002. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden Biden is welcomed back after undergoing surgery for an aneurysm in 1988. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden Biden announces his candidacy for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1988. After three months he drops out, following reports of plagiarism and false claims about his academic record. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden While on the Senate Judiciary Committee, Biden meets with Sen. Frank Church, center, and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat after the signing of the Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty in 1979. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden President Jimmy Carter and Biden attend a reception for the Delaware Democratic Party in 1978. Biden was the first senator to endorse Carter's presidential candidacy two years earlier. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Photos: Vice President Joe Biden At a convention in 1972, Biden and his first wife, Neilia, and his two sons take a photo with Delaware Gov.-elect Sherman W. Tribbitt and his wife Jeanne. Neilia Biden died in a car accident a few months later, after his first election to the Senate, along with their infant daughter, Naomi. Hide Caption 14 of 14 He could backtrack, of course, claiming that suddenly a voice had come to him from heaven, saying "Run, Joe, Run!" But that seems highly unlikely now. Voters would genuinely have to wonder if Biden really had the heart, the energy and the passion to give to this difficult and demanding job. Running for high public office can't be easy. And it's clear that even Joe doesn't think he can manage it in the wake of his son's death. It's easy to say why so many like Joe Biden a great deal. I'm among them. He's a compassionate human being, and he's real. Born in 1942, he grew up in Scranton, Pennsylvania -- the lunch-pail capital of the western world, in my view. I grew up only a mile or so from Biden, whose father scraped to find work during some hard economic times in this era, when anthracite mining had died out and left many in northeastern Pennsylvania without other options for making a living. My mother, who died at 97 only last year, was a friend of Biden's aunt and mother, and she recalled that they moved to Delaware in search of better work. JUST WATCHED Biden unsure if he's 'there' for a run Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Biden unsure if he's 'there' for a run 02:20 Like so many baby boomers, Joe was among the first in his family to have a college education, which he managed to get with the aid of scholarships, attending the University of Delaware and law school at Syracuse. Ordinary Americans identify with Biden. He wasn't born with a silver spoon in his mouth -- like Jeb Bush or Donald Trump. He made his way -- slowly but surely -- in the often clamorous world of American politics. And he has risen to a height his family could scarcely have imagined in those hardscrabble years after the war in Scranton. Joe is the real deal. He would have made a great president, perhaps: a man of the people, who understands their needs, their fondest wishes, their fears. But that probably isn't going to happen. Nonetheless, Joe Biden has -- unexpectedly -- wakened a nation to what it craves: a vulnerable but fully committed person who can say what he or she means, without bombast or equivocation, and lead us forward.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have married at a ceremony in the historic surroundings of St George’s Chapel, Windsor Castle, watched around the world by millions. Loud cheers could be heard from outside as the Archbishop of Canterbury proclaimed them husband and wife. Having exchanged rings at the altar, the couple kissed on the steps outside the chapel and then embarked on a carriage procession in an open top Ascot landau, passing more than 100,000 people lining the route through Windsor town. PA The kiss: The Duke and Duchess of Sussex POOL New / Reuters Prince Harry and his new bride on the steps of St George's Chapel POOL New / Reuters The couple took a tour by horse drawn carriage through Windsor following the ceremony PA The couple during the service, conducted by the Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby POOL New / Reuters Meghan arriving for the ceremony Darren Staples / Reuters The bride-to-be was all smiles on her way to the altar PA Wire/PA Images Prince Harry (left) and the Duke of Cambridge PA Wire/PA Images The Queen arriving to see her grandson wed As the carriage pulled away from the crowds into the gated grounds of Windsor Castle, Meghan seemed to be in awe of the scenes, lifting her hand to her chest and saying “wow”. According to lip reader Tina Lannin, Harry was seen telling his bride: “I’m ready for a drink now.” They headed to St George’s Hall for a lunchtime reception hosted by the Queen, where Sir Elton John performed for the newlyweds and their guests. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube The couple will also celebrate in the evening, when they have invited around 200 guests to a private reception at Frogmore House given by the Prince of Wales. The bride - now to be known as the Duchess of Sussex - was escorted down the aisle by the heir to the throne Prince Charles, who stepped in after her own father underwent heart surgery just two days before the wedding. PA Wire/PA Images The Earl and Countess of Wessex, James, Viscount Severn and Lady Louise Windsor Toby Melville / Reuters Prince Andrew with his daughters Princess Eugenie and Beatrice POOL New / Reuters Mike Tindall and heavily pregnant Zara Phillips PA Wire/PA Images Talk show host Oprah Winfrey was among the guests PA Wire/PA Images Idris Elba and Sabrina Dhowre arriving at the venue ODD ANDERSEN via Getty Images British singer James Blunt PA Wire/PA Images Amal and George Clooney arriving at Windsor Castle PA Wire/PA Images David and Victoria Beckham The Duchess of Cambridge was at the ceremony, making her first public appearance since the birth of her third child, Prince Louis, less than four weeks ago. Further royals in attendance included Mike Tindall and Zara Phillips, the Princess Royal, the Countess of Wessex, the Duchess of Cornwall, and princesses Beatrice and Eugenie. Sarah Ferguson, Sir John Major and his wife Dame Norma Major were also spotted among the guests. The Most Rev Bishop Michael Curry, the first African-American presiding bishop and primate of the Episcopal Church, gave an address titled the Power of Love at the service in St George’s Chapel. Bishop Curry told the service: “There’s power in love. Love can help and heal when nothing else can. There’s power in love to lift up and liberate when nothing else will.” POOL New / Reuters The Most Rev Bishop Michael Curry, primate of the Episcopal Church delivers an address PA Wire/PA Images Serena Williams and Alexis Ohanian The wedding comes after a whirlwind romance lasting just under two years. Set up by a mutual female friend, Markle and the prince met on a blind date in London in the summer of 2016. During their engagement interview in November 2017, Markle, who at the time was appearing in the American legal drama Suits, admitted: “I didn’t know much about him.” Harry, 33, said he also knew little about his prospective date, but claimed he was “beautifully surprised” when she walked into the room. PA Royal fans lining the Long Walk in Windsor PA Wire/PA Images Markle and her mother, Doria Ragland, arriving at Cliveden House Hotel on the day before the wedding After another date, Harry, who is sixth in line to the throne, revealed: “I managed to persuade her to come and join me in Botswana and we – we camped out with each other under the stars. She came and joined me for five days out there, which was absolutely fantastic. “So, then we were really by ourselves which was crucial to me to make sure we had a chance to get to know each other.” The early months of their relationship were spent flying between the star’s former home in Toronto, Canada, where Markle, 36, filmed Suits, and the prince’s cottage at Kensington Palace, London. But Markle, who has also appeared in CSI: Miami, sci-fi show Fringe and movies such as Get Him To The Greek and Horrible Bosses, explained: “We never went longer than two weeks without seeing each other, even though we were obviously doing a long-distance relationship. So … we made it work.” PA Wire/PA Images Princes William and Harry meet members of the public ahead of the big day Harry proposed during a cosy night in over a roast chicken. The prince revealed: “She didn’t even let me finish, she said ‘Can I say yes, can I say yes?’ and then there were hugs.” Markle recalled: “Just a cosy night, it was – what we were doing just roasting chicken and having …trying to roast a chicken and … just an amazing surprise. “It was so sweet and natural and very romantic. He got on one knee.” “The fact that I fell in love with Meghan so incredibly quickly was sort of confirmation to me that all the stars were aligned, that everything was perfect,” the prince said. Karwai Tang via Getty Images Harry and Megham holding hands at the Invictus Games Toronto in 2017 PA Wire/PA Images Looks familiar... royal fans don Meghan and Harry face masks
When asked to describe a typical child with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), most people would describe a young boy who climbs on things, is impatient and does not do what he is told. Few people would describe a bubbly young girl with lots of friends, who works hard to get good grades. It may be, however, that the girl does experience ADHD symptoms that interfere with her daily life -- and that these symptoms are overlooked by the adults around her. Undiagnosed ADHD has long-term consequences including an increased likelihood of engaging in risky behaviours -- such as unprotected sex and substance use -- as well as academic underachievement and low self-esteem . Perhaps most alarmingly, girls who struggle with ADHD for a long period of time can suffer from mental health problems As a psychologist in clinical practice, I used to see many older girls and adult women with ADHD who had already been prescribed medication to treat anxiety and depression. Early diagnosis then is vital. Assessment scales use data from boys Individuals with ADHD exhibit three main clusters of symptoms: hyperactivity, impulsivity and inattention. Although three times as many boys are diagnosed with ADHD in childhood than girls, the diagnostic rates in adults are more equally divided between males and females. This suggests girls go unnoticed when they are younger. As a disorder traditionally seen as affecting males, and with males referred more often for a diagnosis, research to assess ADHD has been based on samples largely consisting of boys. It has been argued that the rating scales developed to assess ADHD have been based on the behaviours observed in the mainly male research samples. ADHD can look different in girls than boys. A boy who is hyperactive might have trouble sitting in his seat in the classroom -- so he sits with one knee on the seat and one foot on the floor. It is likely, given his constant shifting and unequal balance on the seat, that the back legs of the chair will eventually lift up and the chair pitch forward causing the boy to fall to the floor. In contrast, a hyperactive girl may be out of her seat but have taken on the role of classroom helper, wandering around to different desks. A teacher completing a rating scale might rate the boy higher on hyperactive questions than the girl because the second example is not seen as disruptive. Thus, girls do not score as high as boys on these scales and are underrepresented because they do not meet criteria for a diagnosis. Not only do symptoms of ADHD look different in boys but boys also have a tendency to be more hyperactive and impulsive than girls. Because hyperactive and impulsive behaviours are more disruptive in the classroom, teachers are more likely to notice boys as a problem and refer them for attention challenges. Lastly, symptoms of ADHD in girls are sometimes masked because they work hard to meet adult expectations. Without meaning to, adults have different expectations of girls than boys. Adults expect girls to be tidy and organized, achieve good grades and to be easygoing. In turn, girls are more likely to want to obey social norms and not cause trouble. They will work extra hard to achieve success by staying up late to finish homework or tidying their rooms when asked. Sometimes, when adults encounter girls who have difficulty meeting their expectations but the girls are agreeable, they excuse the behaviours by describing the girls as "ditzy," "dramatic" or "artsy." Signs that your daughter might have ADHD There are many symptoms of ADHD shared by both boys and girls. The following are examples of how they can manifest in girls: Homework takes longer than it should. She forgets about it or is distracted by surfing the internet or texting her friends and ends up staying up late the night before an assignment is due to finish it. She is an inefficient student. While she appears to study for tests, her performance does not seem to match the time spent studying. She has weak reading comprehension. She can get facts from a text but does not make links between the ideas she reads. She misses details in instructions on assignments and tests. She struggles with friendships because she does not read social cues or follow conversations. Peers start to reject and isolate her or make fun of her. She forgets things she needs (e.g. dance shoes or soccer cleats). This is a classic sign but agreeable girls with ADHD will often have friends or adults who compensate for them (for example sharing a pen because she doesn't have one). She misplaces her things regularly (for example her phone, keys or bank card). She talks, and talks and talks. She does not run and climb about like boys but is the classroom helper and is social and chatty in class. She has lots of friends because she is fun to be around but when she tries to organize activities she seems anxious and indecisive. Her friends help her make decisions, find her things and keep her organized. She has great ideas and wants to start acting on them right away but does not finish projects or follow through. She is chronically late or is not ready when she needs to be. She channels hyperactivity by being involved in many extracurricular activities like swimming, school clubs and soccer. She does not seem to learn from consequences. She has wide swings in mood. One moment she is on top of the world and the next moment she is crushed because of a casual comment that is taken as harsh criticism. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. If you think your daughter might have ADHD, you should consult with a psychologist or pediatrician who is familiar with ADHD and can provide an in-depth assessment.
John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion who focuses on climate change and social justice. Follow him on Snapchat , Facebook and email . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) The Earth's next mass extinction -- the first caused by people -- is on the horizon. And the consequences are almost unthinkably dire: Three-quarters of species could disappear. This has happened only five times in the planet's history -- including the mass extinction that killed the dinosaurs. What's different now is that humans are causing these changes. How? Well, we're burning fossil fuels and consequently heating up the planet; turning massive chunks of land into farms; spreading invasive species and diseases around the world; boosting our own numbers and consuming more and more resources; and causing all sorts of trouble for the oceans, from overfishing to filling them up with plastic. (Did you know researchers expect the ocean to be equal parts fish and plastic, by weight, as soon as 2050 ?) This subject certainly is alarming, especially when you consider the global picture. JUST WATCHED Vaquita porpoise nearing extinction Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Vaquita porpoise nearing extinction 01:53 Some scientists see those numbers as potentially misleading. Stuart Pimm, the Doris Duke chair of conservation ecology at Duke University, told me that 58% is "a fairly silly kind of number to report because it mixes what's going on in the ocean with what's going on in the land." He continued, "It mixes studies of bird populations in Europe with mammal populations in Africa. It has very few data points in South America. The idea that you in the media can only handle a single number to summarize the state of the planet -- you should be insulted by that." I agree with Pimm that these numbers can be misleading, but that's only if people misunderstand them. I also spoke with Anthony Barnosky, executive director of the Jasper Ridge Biological Preserve at Stanford University. He told me the most important thing to remember is that this report is limited in scope -- it has little data from some important tropical regions, for example, and only covers animals with backbones. But it highlights an important and little-considered fact: It's not just that species are going extinct at an alarming rate -- at least 100 times what could be considered "normal," and maybe much higher than that -- but that populations of still-common animals are declining very rapidly. "I don't think I would quibble with the trend they're pointing out -- we're losing individuals of species and geographic ranges at a really rapid rate," he told me. "If you keep that up, extinction of lots of species is inevitable." Importantly, the WWF report deals with individual animals disappearing, not with entire species. JUST WATCHED For first time in 100 years, tiger population growing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH For first time in 100 years, tiger population growing 01:12 A mass extinction, by definition, means three-quarters of all species disappear. That could happen in 100 or 200 years, Barnosky said, but not by 2020. Don't look at that figure and think we have time to count our blessings. Barnosky told me we have maybe 10 to 20 years to stop the sixth extinction from becoming an inevitability. If we do nothing, expect three-quarters of species to disappear over the next century or two. In other words, what we do (or don't do) right now will shape generations on this planet. "Yes, species are going extinct very, very much faster than they should be," Pimm said, "which means we are depriving countless generations to come the extremely rich diversity we inherited from our parents." And others experts, including Paul Ehrlich, the Bing professor of population studies at Stanford University, say the sixth extinction is already here. "We've probably lost, say, 200 species -- kinds of big animals -- over the last couple of hundred years, but we may well have lost on the order of a billion different populations," he said. "We are basically annihilating the life on our planet and that is the only known life we know about in the entire universe. And it's life that shaped the planet, that made it possible for us to live here. And it's life that still makes it possible for us to live here. (If) we don't have the diversity of other organisms, we're done." Pimm told me we have "about a human generation" to do something before it's likely too late. JUST WATCHED Only four northern white rhinos are left Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Only four northern white rhinos are left 01:10 "If we don't start doing a lot of things to stop extinction, we are going to see very significant losses of species," he said. "There are a lot of things we can do and I would rather concentrate on the positive (rather) than just wallow in this really appalling number" presented by the World Wildlife Fund. "In the last 50 years, roughly, we've lost 50% of the individuals in these species," Barnosky said. "If we lose another 50% in the next 50 years we're down to 25% of the original. Basically, in a couple hundred years you'd have almost all of these species we're talking about blinking out -- if we keep going at that rate." Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook We know how to slow the rate of extinction. We need to ditch fossil fuels to blunt climate change. We need to protect more of the land and ocean on behalf of biodiversity. (The biologist E.O. Wilson has called for half of the world to be protected, a bold and exciting proposition.) We need to stop the spread of invasive species, and we've got to get a handle on illegal trades like that in ivory, which Barnosky said could wipe out Africa's elephants in 20 years if poaching rates continue. The first step, however, is waking up to the crisis and its monstrous scope. "The best way to envision the sixth mass extinction," he told me earlier this year, "is to look outside and then just imagine that three out of every four of the species that were common out there are gone." I'd rather imagine a world where we stop anything close to that from happening.
Lagos, Nigeria (CNN) When Monica Osagie got low marks in a course for her master's degree, she says the professor gave her two options: Sleep with him, or fail the class. Faced with this stark choice, Osagie says she knew no one would believe her word against the lecturer's, so she recorded one of their conversations using a cell phone app. The audio recording was leaked online and went viral on social media. Osagie says she did not leak it but had submitted it to university authorities before it surfaced online. The student's allegations, coming amid the conversations around the global #Metoo movement, have now sparked a nationwide conversation in Nigeria about predatory sexual behavior on campuses and bolstered the notion that sexual harassment is a problem women the world over face almost every day. In the recording, a man can be heard saying that if the student agreed to have sex with him five times, he would improve her grades. "Is it not five we agreed? Our agreement is five," the man says on the tape. Osagie replies, "Is it B that you want to give me or A? Why would it be five times you will knack me? Prof, you know what? Let me fail it. I can't do it five times." Student speaks out In her only interview since the audio was leaked online, Osagie, 23, told CNN she had developed a mentor-mentee relationship with the professor after she helped him edit his book. But the relationship soon made her uncomfortable because he started to make sexual advances towards her, she said. "We actually edited the book together... Then, the next thing he told me was, 'Can you date me?' I was like, 'No.' He was like, 'Why?' I said, 'One, I don't date lecturers, and secondly, you are more matured than I am.'" CNN hasn't been able to confirm the professor's age. Osagie believes he deliberately gave her low marks so she would agree to sleep with him to raise them, she said. "He kept calling me to ask if I was ready to accept his proposal. So, I decided to record our next conversation," she added. CNN has listened to the recording but cannot independently verify it. But a spokesman for the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) in Osun State, south west Nigeria, has confirmed that the voice is that of Richard Akindele, an accounting professor at the university. The university said in a statement posted on its website: "Professor Richard I. Akindele, of the department of management and accounting, is now established to be the lecturer in the controversial "marks for sex" audio recording. The female voice has also been identified as that of Miss Monica Osetobe Osagie, a postgraduate student on the Master of Business Administration Regular programme." The OAU authorities say they have launched an investigation into Osagie's allegations and Akindele has been suspended pending a final decision by the university. The university added that "it will continue to do everything legally and morally acceptable in pursuance of its avowed commitment to zero tolerance for sexual harassment, intimidation and, or coercion." Akindele is yet to speak publicly and declined to comment to CNN. "I have nothing to say until the university has concluded their investigation," he said. Backlash on social media Osagie says she has faced severe backlash since the university made her identity public when it released a statement. "A guy came up to me at the bank and said, 'Is this not the girl who harassed a lecturer?' and he called me a prostitute. The security guard then had to push me away to go withdraw my money inside the bank," she said. Osagie has also received abuse on social media and allegations that she tried to seduce the professor, she said. Despite the criticism, Osagie says she has no regrets speaking about her experience. She hopes her case will give young women facing harassment on campuses the confidence to reject inappropriate advances from their lecturers, she said. "I am actually happy I came out. I am helping many ladies that have gone through the same thing I have gone through, and most of them can't talk about it. "They are scared of coming out in public. But I know it happens everywhere, not just in Nigeria. For me, speaking up will bring more women to speak and eradicate what is happening around young women and older men," Osagie told CNN. "There is no work or ... education that is worth your dignity," she added. "I will keep saying that." After the story broke in the media, Osagie faced a university panel investigating the allegations on the tape and is awaiting its findings so she can receive her certificate. There has been no suggestion that the findings will prevent her from receiving her degree. Her lawyer, Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, told CNN more victims have contacted her with allegations about the same professor since hearing about Osagie's case. "We have ... a situation whereby people have promised to send to us affidavits ... where they can also give evidence against the professor," the lawyer said. CNN has not been able to reach Akindele for comment about other accusers. A spokesman for the university also told CNN the institution could not disclose whether other students had brought similar allegations against the professor. "What is being investigated is the allegation leveled by the student against her lecturer. The university's council will make the final decision on the report the vice chancellor has submitted on the case," said Abiodun Olarewaju, a spokesman for OAU. "This is because of the caliber of the lecturer involved," he added. OAU hit by allegations of sexual harassment Sexual exploitation of female students is a common practice in many universities in Nigeria, one lecturer told CNN. "There is no doubt that this is something that happens frequently in our universities," said Remi Sonaiya, a former professor of French and linguistics at the OAU. Terrible! Unfortunately, many universities don't have strong deterrents or punishment for abusers. Students should be encouraged to speak out when such things happen. There must be at least someone in the institution who can be trusted and confided in. Justice must be done. https://t.co/rpHyJmR8Oc — Remi Sonaiya (@oluremisonaiya) April 9, 2018 The practice thrives because students do not come forward with these allegations and also because they do not trust their institutions to handle such matters with discretion, she added. "I handled a case where the female student reported to another lecturer. She did not come to me at first even though I was the head of the department," Sonaiya told CNN. "I felt bad she worried about who to tell, but I can't blame her. She didn't know who to trust. "I hope this sends a signal that we can no longer tolerate these forms of assault on young women anymore," she added. Osagie's case is not the first time OAU has been embroiled in a sexual harassment scandal. A former student in January said in a now-deleted Facebook post that one of her lecturers caused her to drop out of school when he failed her after she refused to sleep with him, according to local media reports. OAU said a t the time that the man worked at the university for about 15 years ago and also said they had launched an investigation, which is ongoing. Sexual harassment on African campuses But it is not only happening in Nigerian universities. Makere University, Uganda's oldest university, last month suspended a male member of staff after a female student accused him of sexual harassment. Ugandan local media also captured one of the school's male lecturers asking a female student for sex in exchange for marks. The man was later suspended by the university. Suspension of Mr. Kisuze Edward from Makerere University. pic.twitter.com/F5wJEl1Wdb — Makerere University (@MakerereU) April 17, 2018 CNN has been unable to reach the two accused men for comment. A spokeswoman for Makerere University told CNN the university was investigating both cases. "The university will issue an official notification when the investigations are concluded," Ritah Namisango told CNN. The vice chancellor set up a committee in March after the allegations against the lecturer came to light to investigate the "increasing cases of sexual harassment" at the university. The committee will review and improve the institution's sexual harassment policy, she added. 2010 survey of college students and lecturers in Ghana and Tanzania universities found "sex-for-grades" was the most common form of harassment students faced on campuses. Researchers interviewed 200 academics and policymakers and 200 students in the report, which highlights various forms of sexual harassment in the two countries. "Interview data revealed heterosexual sexual harassment of women by men as a discursive and actual practice in all four case-study institutions," wrote Louise Morley, the lead researcher and professor of education at the University of Sussex , in the UK. Some male lecturers in universities surveyed "consider it their right to demand sex with female students" in return for grades, researchers found. Hashtag campaign reflects outrage Since Osagie's recording went viral, many Nigerians have led calls for universities to do more to protect students from sexual harassment. Any lecturer caught soliciting bribe for marks in Nigeria should be suspended for a full academic year. Any lecturer caught soliciting sex for marks/good grades should be fired. RT if you support this. — Dr. Dipo Awojide (@OgbeniDipo) April 11, 2018 "Any lecturer caught soliciting bribe for marks in Nigeria should be suspended for a full academic year. Any lecturer caught soliciting sex for marks/good grades should be fired. Retweet if you support this," Dipo Awojide tweeted. Tweeting with the hashtag #StandingWithMonicaOsagie, many expressed anger at the university, which forced authorities to respond to her allegations. If you're a female in Nigeria and you're not #StandingWithMonicaOsagie you are doing a disservice to your daughters and granddaughters - present or future! Fight abuse of power in schools and the workplace! No to sexual harassment!!! — Ronke Ogunleye (@RonkeA_Ogunleye) April 22, 2018 Commentator Ronke Ogunleye posted: "If you're a female in Nigeria and you're not #StandingWithMonicaOsagie you are doing a disservice to your daughters and granddaughters - present or future! "Fight abuse of power in schools and the workplace! No to sexual harassment!!!"
Dallas (CNN) In 2007, Chad Houser bought into a popular bistro in Dallas, and his dream of being a top chef and restaurant owner was fulfilled. "I remember the feeling I had was exhilaration," he said. "I had done it." In his first year of ownership, Houser helped grow the business and was nominated by a local magazine as best up-and-coming chef in Dallas. Then something happened that changed the way he viewed success. "I had an opportunity to go teach eight young men inside a Dallas County juvenile detention facility how to make ice cream for a competition," he said. In the young men, Houser saw raw talent, drive and enthusiasm. When one of the students won the entire competition, beating out culinary students and young professionals citywide, the young man told Houser he'd found his calling: He wanted to cook for a living. Houser says that's when reality set in. In Texas, more than 40% of juveniles are reincarcerated within three years of release. Statistics told Houser that the young man, despite being gifted and passionate in culinary skills, had the odds stacked against him. "I remember consciously thinking that the system is rigged based on choices that were made for him, not by him -- the color of his skin; the part of town that he was born into; the schools that he had access to," Houser said. "I thought, 'If you're not willing to do something yourself, then you're being a hypocrite. ... And that was it for me." Houser began volunteering with the Dallas County Juvenile Department and, in 2011, started a culinary program to train young men caught up in the system. It started as a series of Sunday night pop-up dinners at a top eatery, where participants learned about restaurant management and trained to serve the evening meal. As the pop-up dinners gained popularity, Houser's vision grew. In January 2015, he opened the doors to Café Momentum in downtown Dallas. The upscale restaurant and nonprofit incorporates a 12-month paid internship for young men and women coming out of Dallas County juvenile facilities. Interns rotate through jobs at the restaurant, from cooking to dishwashing to serving, while also receiving educational support and career counseling. Working with the local juvenile justice department, the group aims to help young people break the cycle of violence and crime that many of them have faced. Houser frequently accompanies youth to court appointments and offers enrichment opportunities and field trips. Nearly 500 young people have participated in the program. CNN's Allie Torgan spoke with Houser about his work. Below is an edited version of their conversation. CNN: What inspired you to start your program, and how did you get the word out? Chad Houser: There were horrific and rampant stereotypes about my kids, and in order to raise awareness and break through the stereotypes, I started to host monthly pop-up dinners. The idea was very simple: Go into one of the top restaurants in Dallas on a Sunday night and sell tickets to a private dinner at that restaurant. We would bus in young men from one of the Dallas County juvenile detention facilities and teach them what it meant to work in a restaurant. The first dinner, we didn't think anybody would show up. I had a plan to call my mom and have her guilt the ladies in her Bible study class into buying tickets. But myself and another gentleman posted a link, and within 24 hours, we had sold 68 seats. That first dinner, 68 people, when they left, either shook my hand or gave me a hug. By December of 2011, we doubled the price and the dinner sold out in 15 minutes. And by spring of 2012, the dinners were selling out in 15 seconds. JUST WATCHED CNN Heroes: Chef Demondric Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Heroes: Chef Demondric 02:45 CNN: You have groups of 20-30 kids coming through the paid internship every year. How do you keep them motivated? Houser: Over the course of 12 months, they work their way through four tiers. Each tier is designed to increase their accountability -- (to create a) solid foundation they can continue to build the rest of their lives on, even after they leave Café Momentum. For example, in tier one, the interns have to re-enroll in school. They also have to go get a physical, a dental exam and a vision exam. Once an intern completes tier four and graduates our program, we invite them and their family to come in for dinner one night during normal dinner service, and we actually stop down the entire restaurant and acknowledge them so that they're getting kind of a unique, individual honor. We're not just celebrating them, but we are celebrating their family as well. Because it's important that they all take pride in this accomplishment. This young person has completely changed the trajectory of their life. CNN: You have a team tradition each night before meal service. Houser: My kids come from households where they've witnessed domestic abuse, drug use; in some cases, they've witnessed murder. Every day before dinner service, we sit down together and have dinner as a family. That's not a concept that's uncommon amongst all restaurants, but it takes on a very different purpose for us -- and that is for most of our kids, that's the first time that they've sat down and shared a meal together with a group that resembles a family. That's why we call ourselves the Café Momentum Family because we want to sit down around the table and talk like a family does. CNN: We've talked a lot about the nuts and bolts of the program -- but what about the food? Houser: Café Momentum is currently ranked as a third best restaurant in Dallas by Eater Dallas. The ranking of the restaurant is important to us, not because of my chef ego, but because it proves something very important, not just to the young men and the young women, but to our community as well -- that these kids can and will rise to whatever level of expectation is set for them, as long as you give them the tools, resources, guidance, love, support and opportunity to get there. I will do whatever is necessary to help ensure their success, whatever it takes for them to know that I unconditionally love them and will continue to support them and advocate for them, for the rest of their lives. Want to get involved? Check out the Café Momentum website and see how to help. To donate to Café Momentum, click the CrowdRise widget below.
Folks around the world are marking this year’s “Star Wars” Day in spectacular style. Fans paid tribute this Friday, May 4, by riffing on the movie franchise’s iconic “may the Force be with you” catchphrase. Police services, celebrities, sports teams and more are all celebrating the date in their own amusing ways. Here’s a sampling of the best tweets so far:
Every woman I know who watches “The Handmaid’s Tale” has a strategy. One of my friends only watches during daylight hours. Another, who usually loves to indulge her junk food cravings while watching her favorite TV shows, has decided she can’t eat anything when it’s on. Another is planning to wait until the season ends, so she can review each episode’s plot summary and decide whether to watch, skip or skim. I watch each episode twice, partly because I cover the show for work, and partly because the initial watch is so stressful that on the second viewing I’m able to take in details that my anxiety doesn’t allow for the first time. The Hulu series’ first season, which aired in 2017 and ended (like the novel that inspired it) on a note of ambiguous hope, was critically acclaimed and almost universally praised among my own circle of peers. But the second season, which premiered earlier this year and moves beyond the plotline of Margaret Atwood’s beloved feminist novel, has received an icier reception. Lisa Miller at The Cut compared the first few episodes of Season 2 to “torture porn,” questioning whether “it’s feminist to watch women enslaved, degraded, beaten, amputated, and raped?” (She concluded it was not and announced she was “done.”) The Atlantic’s Sophie Gilbert asked if all the on-screen suffering is really necessary for the show to make obvious its parallels to our own rights-deprived world. (She’s still on the fence.) The Guardian’s Arielle Bernstein wrote that it saddens her “that ‘The Handmaid’s Tale’ has become the quintessential feminist text of 2018 when so much of its ethos is about making women feel angry, sad and guilty about the state of the world we live in.” Natalie Zutter at Tor wondered how many times she could “watch hope get extinguished” before it simply became too much. Despite these valid critiques and very public declarations that some women are giving up on or disappointed in the show, people are still tuning in ― enough people that a Hulu representative told me that “in its first week, viewing of ‘The Handmaid’s Tale’ Season 2 more than doubled its audience versus Season 1.” That was enough people to get the series renewed for a third season a week after the second season began. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube So, for those of us who still find ourselves captivated by a show admittedly full of human suffering ― specifically women’s suffering ― why are we still tuning in? Do we feel some feminist obligation to see June’s journey through? Is it cathartic to face down some of the worst potential outcomes of our current reality from the safety of our couches? Is it actually motivating? Or do we just love the show’s stunning visuals and equally stunning performances? Do we like signaling that we’re woke using the vernacular of a TV series marketed specifically toward the identities of progressive, millennial women? What, exactly, are we getting out of a series that feels punishing at every turn? I phoned Jennifer Wagner-Lawlor, a professor of English and women’s studies who has written extensively about Atwood, to try and get answers, but she seemed just as confused as I was. She’s still watching “The Handmaid’s Tale,” even though she relates to the recent critiques of Season 2. While she wouldn’t go so far as to call it torture porn (“just torture”), she finds the violence somewhat gratuitous and resents, in particular, the writers’ decision to break June’s (Elisabeth Moss) spirit in Episode 4. Indeed, after nearly a season and a half of watching June’s inner voice withstand separation from her husband and child, ritual rape, psychological torture at the hand of Aunt Lydia and Serena Joy, and dashed hopes for escape, Episode 4 sees her tormentors finally convince her that what has befallen her is ultimately her fault. June’s external voice becomes robotic as a result, her inner voice all but disappearing. “My fault. My fault. My fault. My fault,” she repeats over and over and over again. Wagner-Lawlor found this to be “jolting.” “That seemed to me to come out of nowhere,” she said. “There was no real sign to me up to this point that [June] would actually suddenly break.” She wondered aloud whether the show had “gone a little overboard this season.” By the end of our 40-minute conversation, Wagner-Lawlor was even more torn. “I will keep watching,” she said, “but I’m not waiting for it like I was before.”
Intriguing! Here's the key bit: "Clinton is starring in the Republican Party's 2018 midterm strategy. With no Democrat to attack in the White House for the first time in nearly a decade, Republicans are betting big that the ghost of Clinton will serve them well in 2018. "Even if she avoids the spotlight moving forward, the Republican Party plans to evoke her early and often in key congressional races, particularly in regions Trump won, which feature most of the midterm season's competitive races." And, there's some evidence to back up the Clinton focus within the GOP. Witness the new ad by Don Blankenship , a Republican candidate for Senate in West Virginia. "We don't need to investigate our president," says the ad's narrator . "We need to arrest Hillary." It's not clear what Blankenship wants to arrest Clinton for -- email server? Uranium One deal? -- just that he wants to make sure she is incarcerated. There's a BIG difference between Republican candidates and committees running ads featuring Clinton and those ads actually working to turn the 2018 midterm election into a referendum on the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee. The former could well happen. What special elections since Trump's 2016 victory have shown is that the Democratic base is hugely energized -- largely by their dislike for Trump and their disgust with the decisions he has made as president. Meanwhile, the Republican base is fat and happy; their side control the White House, the Senate, the House, the majority of governor's mansions and the majority of state legislatures in the country. That sort of disparity in energy between the two party bases is bad news for the side suffering from the passion deficit. Midterm elections tend to be battles between the bases so if one side is much more enthusiastic, it can lead to major seat losses for the other side. How do you motivate the GOP base? You find the equivalent of Donald Trump for the left. The problem, of course, is that there is no equivalent on the right for how the left regards Donald Trump. Trump is president. Hillary Clinton is a private citizen. It's just not the same. Which doesn't mean, of course, that raising the specter of Clinton in ads won't work for some Republican candidates hoping to rev up the base. Republicans loathe Clinton and some -- many -- could have a Pavlovian reaction to the mention of her name and a picture of her on their TV screen. (In a September 2017 CNN national poll conducted by SSRS, 91% of Republicans had an unfavorable impression of Clinton; her overall unfavorable rating was 52%.) The problem with the we-will-make-this-election-all-about-Hillary logic is that it has no logical end. Clinton isn't in office. She isn't in charge of much of anything. She will not run again for any national office and she likely wouldn't win if she did. How, then, do you raise the stakes of voting for a Democrat who is in the same party as Clinton? Like, if, say, Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin gets re-elected in West Virginia, is he going to somehow find a way to install Clinton as president or work to enact her agenda? Um, no. History tells us that midterm elections are always a referendum on the president and his party. Since World War I, there have been only three elections -- 1934, 1998 and 2002 -- in which the president's party has not lost seats in a midterm election. In all three of those cases, there was a cataclysmic event that intervened: The Great Depression, Bill Clinton's impeachment and the September 11, 2001 terror attacks, respectively. Short of something that major happening, the Republican Party is assured of losing seats in the House this fall -- the only question is whether they lose the 23 that would reinstall Democrats to the majority. The reality is that voters make decisions based on the politicians in office, the elected officials who can impact their lives -- often, in their mind, in a negative way. Clinton simply isn't that. She is gone from office, never to return. Whether or not she is a visible presence on the campaign trail or fundraising circuit this fall -- my guess is she might do some money raising but isn't likely to be a hot commodity on the stump -- won't change the fact that she's out of office, and staying there. Donald Trump, on the other hand, will be president through (at least) 2020.
At the last royal wedding, things went a little more by the book, with Michael Francis Middleton walking his daughter, the soon-to-be Duchess of Cambridge, down the aisle to meet Prince William. There is royal precedent for close relatives stepping in to handle escort duty. Queen Victoria, whose father died when she was an infant, was walked down the aisle by one of her uncles when she married Prince Albert, said Carolyn Harris, the author of Queenship and Revolution in Early Modern Europe: Henrietta Maria and Marie Antoinette . “Then, later, the widowed Queen Victoria escorted her daughters Helena and Beatrice down the aisle at their weddings,” Harris told HuffPost. Heritage Images via Getty Images Queen Victoria weds Prince Albert at St. James's Palace in 1840. She had been escorted down the aisle by her favorite uncle. The Gown Meghan opted for a thoroughly modern, understated design by Clare Waight Keller of Givenchy and a dramatically long veil. At her wedding, the Duchess of Cambridge wore a timeless, Grace Kelly-esque gown designed by Sarah Burton for Alexander McQueen and a much shorter veil. Kai Pfaffenbach/Reuters; Andrew Matthews/Reuters The Duchess of Cambridge to the left, the Duchess of Sussex to the right. The gowns are so different that there’s very little opportunity for close comparison, said Marlene Koenig, a royal historian who runs the website Royal Musings. “How would you contrast Meghan’s dress with Kate’s? Meghan’s was much more simple, but so elegant,” Koenig said. “The veil included embroidered flowers from all 53 Commonwealth countries and California, where Meghan is from.” The Guest List Because of Harry’s place in the royal family’s line of succession ― now that Prince Louis is around, he’s sixth in line for the throne ― he and his bride-to-be were able to create a guest list that was a little less royal- and dignitary-heavy. “Since William is second in line to the throne, his guest list included political figures such as Commonwealth prime ministers and Commonwealth governors-general. William and Kate’s wedding also included a large contingent of foreign royalty,” Harris said. Ian Gavan/GP via Getty Images Then-Prince Felipe and then-Princess Letizia of Spain (now the king and queen) and Crown Princess Victoria and Prince Daniel of Sweden exit Westminster Abbey after the 2011 royal wedding. Those lucky enough to be included among the 600 guests this time around included friends and family members as well as people the couple had met through their charity work and Meghan’s years as an actress. “Prince Harry only invited foreign royalty who are his personal friends such as Seeiso of Lesotho, who co-founded the Sentebale charity with Harry,” Harris said. Max Mumby/Indigo via Getty Images Guests at Prince Harry's wedding included Oprah Winfrey (right), Idris Elba and his fiancée Sabrina Dhowre. The Wedding Service Harry and Meghan’s ceremony catered more to their distinct personalities, experts said, and was a little more informal as a result. While William and Kate’s musical selections had a strong traditional focus, Harry and Meghan mixed in some more modern music, with Karen Gibson and the Kingdom Choir performing “Stand By Me” by American soul singer Ben E. King. The performance followed a stirring sermon delivered by Bishop Michael Curry, the head of the Episcopal Church in the U.S. WPA Pool via Getty Images Michael Curry, the first black presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church in the U.S., delivered a spirited sermon that cited Martin Luther King Jr. Steve Parsons/AFP/Getty Images; John Stillwell/Reuters The two royal brides' evening choices. The Official Portrait No royal wedding is complete without a big family portrait to commemorate the occasion. Here’s the one taken for Will and Kate’s big day, which includes the duchess’ immediate family: Hugo Burnand/Clarence House Handout/Reuters The official photograph at the 2011 royal wedding. And here’s Harry and Meghan’s portrait, which includes Meghan’s mother and Will and Kate’s two older children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte: A post shared by Kensington Palace (@kensingtonroyal) on May 21, 2018 at 6:51am PDT
(CNN) When photographer Richard Ross wants to talk to a child at a juvenile detention center, he knocks on their cell door. He asks them if he can come inside. The 67-year-old Californian is used to taking off his shoes when he enters homes, so he does the same in a cell. "Most of the kids, they've never had that kind of respect," he said. "But I give it to them, I give them the power. I sit on the floor so they're looking down on me." Ross doesn't begin by hammering them with questions. He wants to have a conversation. "I say, 'What's gone on in your life?' " The result of that tenderness and patience is Ross' latest collection of photos, "Girls in Justice." The images are unflinching. They convey the ugliness of a young person's life behind bars. The pictures are replete with the unique loneliness, anger and boredom of a juvenile detention center. But the girls also tell their stories alongside the images. Photographer Richard Ross One photo shows a girl in a tan jumpsuit, hand on her head, sitting alone in a drab, cavernous room. "I've been here 17 times," one girl says. Many of the stories are bleak, reflecting adults who endangered the girls or, at the very least, failed repeatedly to protect them. "Mom's a stripper. Dad was an alcoholic, drug addict, murdered last year," said one girl explaining her past. "They took my brother and I away because my dad chained us in the house and tried to burn it down. I lived with my grandma and uncle. The people who are supposed to love you never do." The photos show girls wasting the day in their bunks, staring at the wall. Some struggle with mental illness. The girls obscure their faces or are turned away from the camera. That works to protect their identities, but it also evokes shame. Ross seems to be saying the shame isn't the girls' -- it's ours as a society for jailing children. His images aren't always literal. A photo shot toward an azure sky is framed by concertina wire. A straight-forward photo, of a utility wall holding dozens of scissors, turns the stomach after reading the caption -- the guards need the scissors to cut away any cloth a teenager might use to trying to hang herself. Social media Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. Ross recalled one particularly agonizing interview with a girl who kept telling him, "I can't wait to get out of here so I can kill myself." "She was just a kid, but she was at that place where you have no hope," he said. "I feel all these stories, but that one just hit me hard. I was sobbing. You want to say, 'It will get better,' but you also know the system and you know that you can't say that." Ross, the son of a New York City police officer, had a happy upbringing in a home of modest means. He got into a decent amount of trouble growing up, and he said he could have easily wound up in the justice system. But times were different then, he said, and there's been a cultural turn in America toward criminalizing a child's bad behavior. He recalls a detention-center director in Reno, Nevada, who asked him to visit and take photos. At intake, he photographed a fifth-grader who had been taken to jail because he had acted up in class. You want to say, 'It will get better,' but you also know the system and you know that you can't say that. Richard Ross "This fifth-grader came up to my belt buckle," Ross recalled. "He was drinking warm milk, like someone gave him a cardboard thing of milk. I can still smell that milk. That intake area smelled like elementary school." The child's single mother couldn't pick him up for hours. She was holding down a job that wouldn't allow her to leave until after 6 p.m. The detention-center director sent Ross' photo to every principal in the area to make a point: Children do not belong in lockup, so find another solution. Ross is adamant that he's making photographs to bring about "immediate change." He speaks across the country to law schools and works closely with child welfare advocates. His work has been shown during legislative sessions to illustrate how sorely the juvenile justice system needs fixing. "I'm trying to wake people up, make them realize there are lives at stake," he said. "At the same time, I don't, I can't, position myself as the great hope. I might not be able to do much but listen. But I think I'm a good listener, and I think these kids deserve to tell their stories."
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s big day is fast approaching, which got us thinking about all of the British royal wedding traditions we may (or may not) see on May 19. Sure, you may be aware that female wedding guests don fancy hats and fascinators for the ceremony (a British custom not just reserved for royals). Who could forget the bold headwear Princess Beatrice of York wore at the wedding of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge? But there’s probably quite a few traditions you’ve never heard of before. Below, we delve into some of the lesser-known ones. 1. The bride carries a sprig of myrtle in her bouquet. Dan Kitwood via Getty Images Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge, holding her wedding bouquet, which included a sprig of myrtle. Andrew Milligan/PA Images via Getty Images Prince William places the wedding ring on Kate's finger on April 29, 2011. Princess Diana Archive via Getty Images David Avery, head baker at the Royal Naval Cooking School, displays Charles and Diana's multi-tier fruitcake in 1981. Peter Macdiarmid via Getty Images The bridal bouquet Kate held on her wedding day was placed on the Grave of the Unknown Warrior at Westminster Abbey. This tradition began in 1923 with the Queen Mother as a way to honor her late brother Capt. Fergus Bowes-Lyon, who was killed during World War I. Since then, other royal brides ― even those who did not marry at Westminster Abbey ― send the bridal bouquet to be laid on the grave on their behalf. 6. The royal family member must receive the queen’s formal permission to tie the knot. CHRIS JACKSON via Getty Images The queen must approve the marriages of the first six people in line for the throne. Princess Diana Archive via Getty Images Charles donned a military uniform on his wedding day in July 1981. Hugo Burnand/Clarence House via Reuters Will and Kate pose for an official portrait with their families and the wedding party on April 29, 2011.
(CNN) Two Ebola patients slipped out of a treatment center this week in the Democratic Republic of Congo, aid agency Doctors Without Borders said, raising fears the virus may spread as health officials raced to trace anyone they may have encountered. The patients died within a day. The families of the two helped them leave the health facility in Mbandaka during the night Monday, said Rosie Slater, a spokeswoman for Doctors Without Borders, or MSF, an acronym for the French name Médecins Sans Frontières. One of the patients died at home, and his body was returned to the hospital for safe burial with the help of MSF teams, while the second came back to the facility Tuesday but died later that night, Slater said. A third patient who left the facility Sunday night was about to be discharged, she said. "In all three cases every effort was made by staff at the hospital to convince the patients -- and their families -- not to leave and to continue their treatment," Slater said. "However, forced hospitalization is not the solution to this epidemic. Patient adherence is paramount." It's unclear how many people the patients came into contact with in Mbandaka, a city of more than 1 million. The relatives who helped them may also be at risk. A spread of the disease in the crowded city would be catastrophic. As a major trading hub on the Congo River, Mbandaka has direct access to neighboring nations and the capital of Kinshasa by road, water and air. An effort is underway to find out everyone who came into contact with the patients once they left, said Tarik Jasarevic, a World Health Organization spokesman. "It is unfortunate but not unexpected. It is normal for people to want their loved ones to be at home during what could be the last moments of life," Jasarevic said. "We are working with local community leaders, traditional leaders and healers, and religious leaders to better engage with communities so that we understand each other better and can work together in stopping the outbreak." Medical and health promotion teams are working to explain the symptoms of Ebola to the local population, Slater said. More than 20 deaths in latest outbreak The virus has killed at least 22 people in the Democratic Republic of Congo since an outbreak started May 8, the country's Ministry of Public Health said Wednesday, revising an earlier death toll. WHO reported that 27 people had died , the same number the government had provided earlier. WHO attributed the discrepancy to several issues, including communication delays in remote locations and constant reclassification of cases. Since the outbreak began, there have been 58 confirmed, probable and suspected cases of Ebola, including the deaths, WHO's Jasarevic said. Race against time Congo shares borders with nine nations, and WHO has warned those countries to be on high alert for cases. This month marks the ninth Ebola outbreak in Congo in four decades, with the most recent in May 2017. Ebola first appeared in 1976 in Sudan and Congo, and the virus takes its name from a river in the latter. It is one of the world's most virulent diseases and is transmitted through direct contact with blood or other bodily fluids of infected people. The virus Ebola causes fever, severe headaches and in some cases hemorrhaging. It spreads through direct contact with bodily fluids or objects contaminated by someone ill with the disease. In some cases, the virus is spread through contact with someone who has died from the disease. The virus enters the body through broken skin or mucous membranes in the eyes, nose or mouth, and can also spread through sexual contact. There are five subtypes of Ebola virus, four of which can be transmitted from wild animals to people, who then spread the disease person to person. Africa has been limited to three strains: Bundibugyo, Sudan and Zaire. The current outbreak is caused by the Zaire strain, which has the highest mortality rate, ranging from 60% to 90%, according to WHO. Experimental vaccine Pharmaceutical giant Merck has provided more than 8,000 doses of its experimental vaccine and will make an additional 8,000 doses available to WHO in the coming days. The WHO vaccination program started this week, and health care workers have identified more than 600 people who've come into contact with ill people. WHO is working with the country's health ministry, Doctors Without Borders and other partners to inoculate primary and secondary contacts, who are at high risk of infection.
We can all agree that Millennials are the worst. But what is a Millennial? A fight between The New York Times and Slate inspired us to try and figure that out. This article is from the archive of our partner . We can all agree that Millennials are the worst. But what is a Millennial? A fight between The New York Times and Slate inspired us to try and figure that out. After the Times ran a column giving employers tips on how to deal with Millennials (for example, they need regular naps) (I didn't read the article; that's from my experience), Slate's Amanda Hess pointed out that the examples the Times used to demonstrate their points weren't actually Millennials. Some of the people quoted in the article were as old as 37, which was considered elderly only 5,000 short years ago. The age of employees of The Wire, the humble website you are currently reading, varies widely, meaning that we too have in the past wondered where the boundaries for the various generations were drawn. Is a 37-year-old who gets text-message condolences from her friends a Millennial by virtue of her behavior? Or is she some other generation, because she was born super long ago? (Sorry, 37-year-old Rebecca Soffer who is a friend of a friend of mine and who I met once! You're not actually that old!) Since The Wire is committed to Broadening Human Understanding™, I decided to find out where generational boundaries are drawn. I started by calling the Census Bureau. A representative called me back, without much information. "We do not define the different generations," she told me. "The only generation we do define is Baby Boomers and that year bracket is from 1946 to 1964." Next, I spoke with Tom DiPrete, a sociology professor at Columbia University. And he agreed with the Census Bureau. "I think the boundaries end up getting drawn to some extent by the media," DiPrete said, "and the extent to which people accept them or not varies by the generation." DiPrete explained that there was a good sociological reason for identifying the Baby Boom as a discrete generation. It "had specific characteristics," and occurred within an observable timeframe. World War II ended. You had the post-war rise in standard of living and the rise of the nuclear family. Then societal changes disrupted those patterns, and the generation, for academic purposes, was over. His main point: "History isn't always so punctuated." I understood why Generation X, a generation defined by turmoil and uncertainty, would be poorly defined. But what about Millennials? Doesn't their shared experience of the millennium transition and technology provide similar markers? "I actually haven't seen efforts to document [generations] rigorously, and I would be somewhat skeptical that they can be documented rigorously." DiPrete said. The things that have shaped Millennials — the rise of technology and social networks, for example — "affect people's lives differently."
Una Mullally is a journalist, author and screenwriter from Dublin. She is a columnist with the Irish Times and contributes to the Guardian. The opinions in this article belong to the author. (CNN) This week, 47 years ago, a group of Irish feminists boarded what became known as the Contraceptive Train -- a train to and from Belfast so they could buy condoms, take them back to Dublin and goad the police to arrest them. The protest against the illegality of contraceptives was a landmark moment in Irish society, a perspective that could not be unseen and a point of view that shifted public discourse. The women's movement in Ireland has fought many battles: from the glorious stunt of that train journey to the divorce referendum in 1995. If the past is a different country for most nations, in Ireland, it's a different continent. The social change that has occurred here since the 1990s -- when the scale of the sexual abuse of children by members of the Catholic Church began to be revealed -- is profound. Marriage equality was legalized by popular vote in 2015, and Ireland has some of the most progressive legislation on transgender rights in the world. Yet legal abortion has been the third rail of Irish politics for so long. The international perception of Ireland also at times languishes in the past. Generalizations of a conservative, Catholic, Atlantic outpost, are not without merit, when considering the country's reluctance to provide the type of reproductive health care that many other nations don't even bother debating anymore. Yet there is also a frustration in Ireland about the tweeness that colors global assumptions about the country. As the international media descends this week on Dublin -- a cosmopolitan city home to the European headquarters of so many tech companies -- that perception rears its head again. Signs from the No campaign are seen on a Dublin street. How can a country legalize gay marriage but not abortion? How can Irish people say the Catholic Church has lost its moral authority and power while Irish women still can't access basic health care? The answer lies in a complex legacy of control and oppression of women that is as off-putting to many Irish women as it is to their global sisters. In the aftermath of the marriage referendum, the country seized a progressive energy, and a newly politicized generation began to challenge something that 35 years of activism failed to dismantle. Across the country, the mobilization of canvassers and grassroots activists advocating for a Yes vote has been phenomenal. They have been contending with a No campaign that holds on to that old Ireland, one where Catholic dogma is viewed as a positive force and our status as a place where women cannot access abortion is praised as special. The practicalities of illegal abortion are stark. On average, nine women travel from Ireland every day to Britain in order to have an abortion. An estimated three women a day take abortion pills, bought illegally online, without medical supervision. But the shame and stigma that surrounded such a culture has been broken. Over the past few years, women have spoken out about their own experiences of traveling for abortions. Couples have talked about having to travel to England after diagnoses of fatal fetal abnormalities, couriering the remains of their babies home. Such cruelty has shattered the silence this theocratic law depends on. The vote will be tight. But the resolve to remove the eighth amendment is strong. In the face of a No campaign that has been emotive to the point of hysterical -- graphic posters shock tourists in the capital -- the Yes campaign has taken on a steely resilience. With just days to go, a profound change may be about to happen. But more profound will be what that change is actually reflecting: a modern country that seeks to remove shackles that have bound it -- and its women -- for far too long.
Nearly 76 years after Anne Frank went into hiding from the Nazis during World War II, two previously hidden pages from her famous diary have been uncovered for the first time thanks to digital technology. The Anne Frank House museum in Amsterdam revealed the pages’ content on Tuesday, showcasing the Jewish teenager’s once-secret writings on sex, puberty, prostitution, and even some “dirty jokes.” “I’ll use this spoiled page to write down ‘dirty’ jokes,” Anne writes before sharing a few, along with her understanding of menstruation and sex, which she notes isn’t done “before one is married.” ullstein bild Dtl. via Getty Images Anne Frank wrote about sexual education, prostitutes and 'dirty' jokes in her diary, something that researchers say she had written about before. “Anyone who reads the passages that have now been discovered will be unable to suppress a smile,” Frank van Vree, director of the Netherlands Institute for War, Holocaust and Genocide Studies, which partnered in the research, said in a statement. “The ‘dirty’ jokes are classics among growing children. They make it clear that Anne, with all her gifts, was above all also an ordinary girl.” The secret entry, dated Sept. 28, 1942, had been previously unseen, hidden beneath pieces of brown paper pasted over it by Anne, the museum said. The covered entry was first discovered in 2016 during a regular inspection of the diary. But it was only recently that researchers said they were able to use light to peer beneath the brown paper without touching the pages, which could have caused damage. Combining photos of the pages with advanced digital technology, they were able to decipher her words. Anne Frank House Researchers uncovered a never-before-seen entry by Anne Frank beneath these pages of brown paper. It's dated September 28, 1942. The museum, which houses the diary on permanent loan, said it was unclear why Anne covered up the pages. She wrote about sexuality and “dirty” jokes in other diary entries. In the newly uncovered entry, Anne writes as though she were giving a lesson on sex education to someone else. She mentions there were houses in Paris ― which she says her father once saw ― where one could go to find prostitutes. The museum noted that Anne expressed worry in her other writing that someone in her family’s hidden annex would read her diary. She also mentioned that others in the hideaway had asked to see it, and that her father had threatened to take it away. BAS CZERWINSKI via Getty Images Ronald Leopold (left), executive director of the Anne Frank House, presents two unknown pages of Anne Frank's diary, during a press conference on Tuesday in Amsterdam. Peter de Bruijn, a senior researcher at the Huygens Institute for the History of the Netherlands, which also partnered in the research, suggested to The New York Times that Anne may have edited the pages because she hoped to have her diary published one day. Anne kept more than one version of her writings after hearing on the radio that the Dutch government, which was in exile at the time, intended to publish personal accounts of those who suffered under the German occupation. She planned to submit a new diary, which she called “The Secret Annex,” after the war, the Times reported. Anne hid in the secret annex with her family and documented her time there for more than two years. On Aug. 4, 1944, her family was discovered and deported to Auschwitz. HO Old / Reuters Anne hid in the secret annex with her family for more than two years before they were discovered in 1944. She died at a concentration camp just before her 16th birthday.
In the wake of the federal government's decision to buy the Trans Mountain pipeline from Kinder Morgan, industry analysts and climate groups agree on at least one thing: The political battle over the expansion of the contentious pipeline is not over. "We see the potential for further complications stemming from the decision," analysts at Desjardins wrote in a client note Tuesday. "We believe that federal ownership could further galvanize opposition to the project from special interest groups while complicating the federal government's ability to provide protection over project construction in (British Columbia's) Lower Mainland," analysts Justin Bouchard, Kristopher Zack and Chris MacCulloch wrote in the note. Building the pipeline in the face of aggressive opposition in British Columbia "could ultimately require significant resources from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police," they noted, and the federal Liberals may be "highly reluctant to use force" ahead of next year's federal election, the analysts suggested. Watch: Opposition party leaders react to Liberals' purchase of the Trans-Mountain pipeline (story continues below) For their part, climate groups made it clear they don't intend to stop fighting the project, and they harshly criticized Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, arguing the federal leader has damaged his reputation on the climate file with the decision. "Canada's purchase of a tar sands pipeline and expansion project eviscerates any claim it has to climate leadership at a key moment — doubling down on the world's dirtiest oil, rather than closing the gap on the country's Paris climate commitments," said Anthony Swift, the Canada program director for the U.S.-based Natural Resources Defense Council, in a statement. Not even Donald Trump has stooped to buying troubled fossil fuel properties outright. Trudeau and Notley are now in a class of their own - and it's not "socialism" it's Carbon Corporatism. A straight up subsidy to Big Oil. #StopKM https://t.co/kTXu5UUifb — Naomi Klein (@NaomiAKlein) May 29, 2018 And so a govt that promised no fossil fuel subsidies now becomes the proud owner of the Trans Mountain pipeline. Combined cost of purchase and construction will surpass $12 billion #TrudeauHasLostHisWay — Seth Klein (@SethDKlein) May 29, 2018 Trudeau's government "has just signed up to captain the Titanic of tar sands oil pipelines," said Mike Hudema, a climate and energy campaigner with Greenpeace Canada, who added that the purchase puts the federal government on a "collision course" with its commitments to Indigenous groups. He argued Trudeau is "gambling billions of Canadian taxpayer dollars on an oil project that will never be built — a project that Kinder Morgan itself has indicated is 'untenable' and that faces more than a dozen lawsuits, crumbling economics, and a growing resistance movement that is spreading around the world." Recent polling suggests support for the pipeline among Canadians has strengthened somewhat since pipeline builder Kinder Morgan announced last month it was suspending all non-essential work on the Trans-Mountain expansion, and would make a decision on whether to abandon the project by the end of May. A slim majority of Canadians, 54 per cent, backed the project in an April poll from Angus Reid. The federal government responded to Kinder Morgan's ultimatum by announcing Tuesday it had come to an agreement to buy the pipeline, as well as the project to expand it, for $4.5 billion. The sale is expected to be finalized later this year, but the government plans to get construction moving shortly. "Construction of the Trans Mountain pipeline will show Canada is open for business." Tim McMillan, president and CEO of Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers. #transmountain #KinderMorgan #BuildTM pic.twitter.com/Gv9TPNuDJH — CAPP Oil Gas Canada (@OilGasCanada) May 29, 2018 Finance Minister Bill Morneau says the government doesn't plan on holding on to ownership of the pipeline, and is looking to sell it to investors at some point in the future. The government said Tuesday it will offer future buyers "indemnity" from any losses incurred by "politically motivated unnecessary delays" — in other words, Canadian taxpayers could still be on the hook after the project is sold on, if opposition to the project continues to slow it down. We do not believe that this outcome will instill investor confidence in Canada. Chris Bloomer, Canadian Energy Pipeline Association The industry group representing pipeline operators said it is "pleased" the project is moving forward, but seemed worried about the implications of a government buyout of a private pipeline project. The Canadian Energy Pipeline Association "is deeply concerned that the government needed to purchase the project for it to be built and to assert federal jurisdiction," the group's president and CEO, Chris Bloomer, said in a statement. He said the group was "concerned about the implications of the government's financial intervention for future transmission pipeline projects. We do not believe that this outcome will instill investor confidence in Canada." The Desjardins analysts suggested that, even if the pipeline were to be built, it would not provide enough capacity for Canadian oil exports going forward. They said more oil-by-rail shipments would be necessary. That stands in contrast to forecasts from climate groups, which predict that demand for Canadian oil will diminish in coming years as countries move towards their Paris accord commitments to reduce carbon emissions, and the Trans-Mountain pipeline could prove to be a waste of resources. Also on HuffPost:
Story highlights One of the contestants had a famous girlfriend before Fans freaked on Twitter when they realized who he was The following story contains spoilers for the season premiere of "The Bachelorette." (CNN) Yes, fans have seen his face before. One of the men vying for Becca Kufrin's heart on the 14th season of "The Bachelorette" has already been in a high-profile relationship. Colton Underwood used to date Olympic gymnast Aly Raisman. The new season of "The Bachelorette" premiered Monday night, and it didn't take viewers long to fall for the former football player who now runs a cystic fibrosis charity. I already love Colton on the Bachelorette so much 😍 — Kelsey Randall🦄 (@_kels12) May 29, 2018 I want Colton from the Bachelorette to be my husband 😍 — Abby McKay (@AbbsMcKay) May 29, 2018 Colton is winning the bachelorette 🌹 — Hailey Poling (@hpoling15) May 29, 2018 Then there was the plot twist as Twitter figured out he was Raisman's ex-boyfriend. If anyone else is thinking the same thing about Colton on the Bachelorette... yes,we have seen him before and yes he dated Aly Raisman 🤨 — Ally Eikmeier (@allyeikmeier) May 29, 2018 So Aly Raisman's ex boyfriend (Colton) is on the Bachelorette and if he does anything to disrespect our queen there will be HELL to pay. Ur on thin ice buddy — Elise Brewer (@eliz_navidad) May 29, 2018 DID HE?! I ONLY APPROVE IF HE TREATED HER LIKE THE QUEEN SHE IS AND DIDN'T HURT HER — Cassie Surprise (@chasspod) May 29, 2018 Read More
Saudi Arabia and Russia have very little in common. Except for oil. For years, the world's biggest oil producers have clashed over Middle East politics and battled for energy market share. But their desperate need to rescue oil prices brought them together last year and that partnership was the focus of talks Thursday between King Salman and President Vladimir Putin in Moscow. It was the first ever state visit by a Saudi monarch to Russia, and both sides were looking to broaden the relationship. But oil was front and center. Russia and Saudi Arabia have often competed for energy market dominance. They are engaged in an intense battle over who will be the top supplier to China, a major energy importer with an insatiable appetite for crude. Together they produce about a quarter of the world's oil and last year clinched a deal designed to eliminate a global supply glut, in part triggered by the rapid rise in American production. The deal between OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, and several non-OPEC countries including Russia, to curb supply has helped stabilize markets but has yet to boost prices enough to ease the pain for oil-dependent economies. Extending oil output curbs? The agreement has already been extended once to continue through March 2018. Now there's talk of another extension -- possibly until the end of 2018. "We are committed to continuing positive cooperation between our nations to achieve stability on the global oil markets," King Salman was reported as saying by Russian state news agency Tass. Related: Saudi Arabia's vague economic shift leaves huge oil IPO on track The talks took place against a difficult political backdrop. Saudi Arabia and Russia backed different sides in the war in Syria. And Russia is close to Iran, a fierce adversary of Saudi Arabia despite their status as OPEC members. In addition, Saudi Arabia is trying to build a closer relationship with President Trump and his administration, while the U.S. has sanctioned Russia over its involvement in the Ukraine crisis. Analysts say King Salman and President Putin would try to put those differences behind them. "Both countries are looking to reap political and economic benefits during the visit," said Yury Barmin, an expert at the Russian International Affairs Council. "The Russians are looking to perpetuate their image of a leading power in the Middle East, while Riyadh is hedging its bets for regional partnerships at a time when the United States is scaling down its presence in the region." Tass reported that Moscow is hoping Saudi Arabia investment in Russia will surpass $1 billion after the visit. Barmin was cautious. "In 2015, Saudi Arabia pledged $10 billion to invest in Russia but two years on nothing has been invested," he said. Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak told Al Arabiya TV this week that the two sides plan to launch a $1 billion fund to invest in energy projects, without giving further details. Russian arms sales? A Saudi-Russian business forum is also taking place during the King's visit. Top officials, energy ministers and leaders of sovereign wealth funds were due to attend, including Amin Nasser, CEO of Saudi oil giant Aramco. Defense was another topic. Saudi Arabia is one of the biggest spenders in the world. It has allocated 191 billion riyals ($51 billion), or 21% of its 2017 budget, to military spending. "Moscow has been entertaining the idea of selling its weapons to Saudi Arabia but it seems that Riyadh is not ready to go that far," Barmin told CNNMoney. Tass reported Thursday that Saudi Arabia was interested in buying Russia's S-400 air defense missile system. "There is some interest, of course," he said. "Talks on S-400 are in progress, but there are no final decisions yet," Tass quoted Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin as saying. Related: The man leading Saudi Arabia's overhaul just got more powerful Saudi Arabia does most of its trading with the United States but may be looking to diversify that. Vision 2030, a blueprint for Saudi Arabia to move its economy away from oil, is driving that change. "The Russians have gone out of their way to welcome the Saudi King, hoping to open a new page in relations with the wealthy kingdom," said Fawaz Gerges, professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics. "The stakes are as high for Moscow as for Riyadh."
(CNN) A woman has been arrested in connection to the death of a sheriff's deputy whose body was found in Tennessee after responding to suspicious vehicle report. Erika Castro-Miles, 38, was charged with one count of first-degree murder, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation said. Investigators said Castro-Miles "participated" in Wednesday morning's shooting of Dickson County Sheriff's Deputy Sgt. Daniel Baker but did not release more details about the investigation. Baker, a 10-year law enforcement veteran, had responded to a resident's 911 call about a suspicious vehicle about 7 a.m. in Dickson County -- just over 40 miles west of Nashville, TBI spokeswoman Susan Niland said. After a period of not being able to contact the deputy, Baker's vehicle was tracked with GPS in a wooded area about 2 miles from the location of the initial call by an officer from another agency, according to TBI. Baker was dead in his vehicle. NEW: She was detained earlier today, but TBI has now arrested and charged this Dickson woman with First Degree Murder in the ongoing investigation into the death of Sgt. Daniel Baker. MORE: https://t.co/iYd0M0DR6u pic.twitter.com/ORaTeePofG — TBI (@TBInvestigation) May 31, 2018 Read More
“Feckless cunt,” the fiery insult that comedian Samantha Bee flung at first daughter Ivanka Trump on Wednesday night, rankled many conservatives, who said Bee crossed a line. The White House called for TBS to cancel her show,“Full Frontal.” But at least one observer saw hypocrisy in all the backlash. Oliver Willis, a writer at the progressive news site Shareblue, unearthed a 1994 interview in which musician Ted Nugent used the same c-word to refer to then-first lady Hillary Clinton. To show how Nugent’s offensive language has done nothing to impact his standing with Republicans, Willis tweeted a recent photo of Nugent shaking hands with President Donald Trump alongside the 24-year-old quote. He referred to the backlash as “fake outrage.” something something something samantha bee fake outrage something pic.twitter.com/5bc5PPBGOK — Oliver Willis (@owillis) May 31, 2018 The tweet caught the eye of Chelsea Clinton. “I keep hoping for consistency too, Oliver,” she commented in sharing the tweet with her followers, adding, “Though I’m not holding my breath!” I keep hoping for consistency too, Oliver. Though I’m not holding my breath! https://t.co/cbPrLPAEEP — Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) May 31, 2018 The photo was taken on April 19, 2017, when Trump dined with Nugent, Kid Rock and Sarah Palin at the White House. The two musicians and one former vice presidential candidate also paused to take a sneering photo together alongside Hillary Clinton’s portrait. Nugent’s incendiary comment about Clinton appeared in a July 27, 1994, issue of Westword, a Denver-based alt-weekly, in which he sounded off on an array of political topics. “You probably can’t use the term ‘toxic cunt’ in your magazine, but that’s what she is. Her very existence insults the spirit of individualism in this country,” he said. “This bitch is nothing but a two-bit whore for Fidel Castro.” Nugent has stirred plenty of controversy with his remarks in the past, as when he spoke about killing then-President Barack Obama at a National Rifle Association meeting in 2012. He never apologized for that comment.
(CNN) Here is a look at the life of former actress Meghan Markle , the Duchess of Sussex, wife of Great Britain's Prince Harry . Personal: Birth date: August 4, 1981 Birth place: Los Angeles, California Birth name: Rachel Meghan Markle Father: Thomas Markle, Hollywood lighting director Mother: Doria Ragland, social worker and yoga instructor Marriages: Prince Harry, The Duke of Sussex (May 19, 2018-present); Trevor Engelson (2011-2013, divorced) Prince Harry, The Duke of Sussex (May 19, 2018-present); Trevor Engelson (2011-2013, divorced) Education: Northwestern University, B.A., 2003 Other Facts: to marry in to the British royal family since Wallis Simpson, who Edward VIII abdicated the throne to marry in 1936. First American to marry in to the British royal family since Wallis Simpson, who Edward VIII abdicated the throne to marry in 1936. Worked with One Young World , helping the UK charity with their mission to encourage young leaders around the world to make lasting connections and initiate positive change. She is the first person to hold the title Duchess of Sussex. Timeline: 2002 - Works at the US embassy in Argentina. 2011-2018 - Stars as "Rachel Zane" in USA Network's legal drama "Suits." March 23, 2015 - Speaks on gender equality at the UN Women's 20th Anniversary of the Fourth World Conference in Beijing and explains how she Speaks on gender equality at the UN Women's 20th Anniversary of the Fourth World Conference in Beijing and explains how she became an activist at 11 by writing letters to help create change. July 2015 - Writes an essay, Writes an essay, "I'm More Than An 'Other,'" for Elle UK on her bi-racial ethnicity. February 2016 - Travels to Rwanda as the Global Ambassador for World Vision. Travels to Rwanda as the Global Ambassador for World Vision. Summer 2016 - Begins dating Prince Harry after the two meet for a drink on a blind date, set up by a mutual friend. Begins dating Prince Harry after the two meet for a drink on a blind date, set up by a mutual friend. November 8, 2016 - Prince Harry releases a statement regarding his relationship with Markle, asking for the negativity and harassment to cease. Prince Harry releases a statement regarding his relationship with Markle, asking for the negativity and harassment to cease. March 8, 2017 - Markle writes a piece for Time magazine about menstruation in poverty stricken nations, that in order "to break the cycle of poverty, and to achieve economic growth and sustainability in developing countries, young women need access to education." Markle writes a piece for Time magazine about menstruation in poverty stricken nations, that in order "to break the cycle of poverty, and to achieve economic growth and sustainability in developing countries, young women need access to education." September 25, 2017 - Markle and Prince Harry make their first public appearance as a couple at the Invictus Games in Toronto. December 15, 2017 - Kensington Palace announces that Prince Harry and Markle will be married on May 19, 2018. Kensington Palace announces that Prince Harry and Markle will be married on May 19, 2018. February 28, 2018 - Attends the "Make a Difference Together" forum for the Royal Foundation in her first appearance alongside Attends the "Make a Difference Together" forum for the Royal Foundation in her first appearance alongside Prince William Duchess Catherine , and Prince Harry. March 12, 2018 - Makes first appearance with Makes first appearance with Queen Elizabeth II for the Commonwealth Day service at Westminster Abbey. March 14, 2018 - Queen Elizabeth II issues the declaration of consent to the marriage of Prince Harry and Markle. Queen Elizabeth II issues the declaration of consent to the marriage of Prince Harry and Markle. May 18, 2018 - It is announced the It is announced the Meghan Markle will walk unescorted down the aisle . She will be the first royal bride in the UK to do so. May 19, 2018 - Marries Prince Harry at St. George's Chapel in the grounds of Windsor Castle and becomes Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Sussex. May 25, 2018 - The Coat of Arms created for the Duchess is released. The Coat of Arms created for the Duchess is released.
John Legend is a singer, songwriter, actor and activist. Rashad Robinson is executive director of Color Of Change, America's largest online racial justice organization. The views expressed in this commentary are solely those of the authors (CNN) No one should have to stay in jail because they lack the money to buy their freedom. Yet every night, according to the Justice Department's statistics , nearly 450,000 people who have not been convicted of a crime sit in jail, a large number trapped there simply because they don't have enough money to post bail. For many, even a relatively modest bail amount is out of reach. Moreover, research shows that on average, black people are assigned higher bail amounts than other defendants arrested for the same offenses. Simply put, it is wrong to be forced by poverty to face an extensive stay in jail while awaiting a court date -- separated from children, family and home, and running the risk of losing employment. If you believe TV crime shows, you might think that commercial money bail emerged as a solution to a problem of justice: a service that reasonably aided people in paying bail — the deposit that defendants leave with the court as collateral for their promise to appear at trial. The actual history: the first commercial bail bond business started in 1898 in San Francisco and functioned as a corrupt payoff racket among crime bosses, judges, lawyers and police. This history is consistent with the reality of money bail today. If you are wealthy, you can post the bail amount and walk free, whether or not you pose a threat to society. But if you don't have the money, regardless of how small the alleged crime, giving in to the commercial money bail industry may be your only option to avoid a months-long wait behind bars. Recently, momentum to reform the unjust bail system has gained steam. In January 2018, a California appellate court declared that no one can be jailed because they're too poor to pay their way to freedom. It also places stringent requirements on judges to demonstrate why someone should be held in jail rather than remain home with their family as they defend their case. However, these successes don't fully mitigate the destruction caused by the commercial bail bond industry -- how it preys upon low-income communities and people of color, among many others -- or address the urgent need to dismantle it entirely. The for-profit commercial bail bonds industry is built on predatory business practices . With bail bond agents working as proxies for large insurance corporations, they exploit poor communities, particularly black communities. In exchange for a nonrefundable fee from defendants, a bail bond agent will secure a person's release from jail, often without having to deposit any money with the court themselves. When families cannot pay bond agents in cash, they may be forced to put up their car or home as collateral, which they can easily lose entirely if they do not make each and every payment installment. With the potential threat of physical harm in jail looming, as well as the consequences of not returning to their lives, people often sign contracts filled with egregious terms that put their entire family at risk. These can include unannounced, armed home searches, vehicle tracking, body monitoring and phone surveillance — all conducted by private, poorly regulated bail bond agents. Unbelievably, even when the charges are dropped, the case is dismissed or a defendant is found innocent by the court, families remain on the hook to pay the full amount of exorbitant fees demanded by these agents. JUST WATCHED Dem & GOP senators unite to reform justice system Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dem & GOP senators unite to reform justice system 06:22 The commercial bail industry generates nearly $2 billion each year. Last year, in New York City alone, there were 12,000 bonds secured through commercial bail bond companies for an aggregate amount of $280 million. Premiums, fees and illegally retained collateral from these products may have exceeded $25 million -- nearly all of it coming from low-income communities of color who are hit hardest by mass incarceration, the war on drugs, and other public policies that disproportionately target them. Many, including the New York City Comptroller , have called for an eradication of the industry. Dismantling the commercial bail industry is a steep hill to climb. In recent negotiations over bail reform in New York State , for example, the aggressive influence of the bail bond industry won the lobbying contest, while justice for our communities lost out. But the fight is not over and there is hope. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo can make good on his own professed vision for reform by supporting new and improved bail reform legislation during the regular session this year. With so much happening in the shadows, Cuomo and other elected officials should push for follow-up investigation to an initial report from Color Of Change exposing the true ills of the commercial bail industry. Cuomo recently sent a tweet announcing an investigation in response to a campaign by Color Of Change and our partners. But he needs to move quickly to implement it, as New Yorkers are still subject to the abuses of the bail industry Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Prosecutors, mayors, legislators and governors across the country are responding to the community-led movement for bail reform and reconsidering the role of money bail in our justice system. We must all add our voices to the call to #EndMoneyBail if we are going to finally put an end to the corrupt, destructive, and unnecessary industry that is commercial bail.
Washington (CNN) Michael Avenatti, the lawyer representing adult film actress Stormy Daniels, alleged in an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper on Wednesday that Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump's longtime personal attorney, had recorded "inappropriate" conversations. In the same interview, Avenatti also alleged Trump is among the people on the recordings. Earlier on Wednesday, Avenatti dropped his request to participate in the court battle tied to the FBI raid of Cohen's hotel and office after a federal judge said that in order to be admitted into the New York proceedings, he would need to "stop your publicity tour." Addressing the media, Avenatti then told reporters there had been "a shocking admission" in court, saying Cohen's lawyer "admitted that there are audio recordings that Michael Cohen was taking for years." Avenatti is now calling for the public release of any recordings made by Cohen. Read More
Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later
Portland, Oregon (CNN) All Erika Zak wants to do is play with her daughter on the playground. Take her to the zoo. Walk her to school. She's never been able to be the mother she longs to be. At 38, Erika is dying. Her battle to live began almost as soon as her daughter, Loïe, was born four years ago, when Erika was diagnosed with stage 4 metastatic colon cancer that had spread to her liver. The cancer was removed from her colon and, her doctors say, she responded well to treatment. But a microwave ablation surgery last year to remove two tumors from her liver went terribly wrong, leaving a fist-sized hole in her liver and destroying her bile ducts. Every day since has been a fight to survive. She's been hospitalized 19 times in Oregon over the last 12 months for infections, bleeding and an array of other health issues. She has high blood pressure in her liver, which backs up the veins in her esophagus and can be catastrophic. Her surgical oncologist constantly worries she will fall ill with a bad infection and die. Without a liver transplant, her doctors say Erika will likely die before the end of the year. "Every time she calls me and has a fever and some bleeding, we all hold our breath, worried: Will this be the time Erika bleeds to death?" says Dr. Skye Mayo, her surgical oncologist at Oregon Health & Science University. "This is kind of the end game of what liver failure looks like." More than 100 doctors at three of the nation's top medical centers have weighed in on her case, which is complex and exceedingly rare. Their conclusion: The only way to save Erika's life is to give her a new liver. After weeks of evaluation at the Cleveland Clinic in December and January, Erika finally got her big break. On February 2, doctors there approved putting her on the wait list for a liver transplant. The news changed everything. Erika finally had hope. Around the house, 4-year-old Loïe would say, "Mommy, when you get a new liver, can you push me in the swing?" But Erika hit an immediate wall. Her insurer, UnitedHealthcare, denied coverage for the transplant, saying it would not be a "promising treatment." She appealed and was rejected again. The mom who desperately wanted to live looked into Oregon's Death with Dignity program. Erika had written a letter to her daughter months ago to be read after she died. Now she worried Loïe might receive it sooner than Mom had planned: Dear Loïe, If you're reading this, I'm probably not on this earth anymore. So please remember this: I am with you always; even if you can no longer see my face or feel my hands through your hair. I am with you when you look up to the sky and see tiny birds flying free or the stars twinkling in your eyes. I am with you when you feel a perfect, warm breeze upon your sweet face. Erika wasn't going to give up. Her little girl with bright blue eyes was a constant reminder of all that is precious. Outraged and heartbroken, Erika wrote a four-page letter to the CEO of UnitedHealth Group, the parent company of UnitedHealthcare (UHC), giving him a piece of her mind about what she felt was a rigged review process, riddled with errors, that determined her life wasn't worth saving. Weeks passed until the company reached a decision. Despite her plea, the answer was the same: Denied. Then, last week, an amazing thing happened. Erika Zak and her husband, Scott Powers, lock hands during a recent hospital visit. The two met 20 years ago. 'My life hangs in the balance' If it's true that opening your heart, revealing your feelings, unleashes freedom and makes you whole, Erika turned to one of the things she loves most in an effort to save her life. Writing. It was early April. She sat at her computer, her keyboard clacking. She wasn't going to leave her husband, Scott Powers, and their daughter Loïe behind without trying her damnedest to stay on this Earth for as long as possible. There was too much at stake. UnitedHealthcare had overruled her treating physicians and denied the transplant, saying "unproven health services is not a covered benefit." The words burned, like chemo. Her first appeal went nowhere, and she felt trapped in a labyrinth of red tape. The young mother -- frail from having lost 20 pounds in the past year, her skin and eyes yellow from jaundice -- felt the only way to get a new liver was to plead her case directly to the CEO of UnitedHealth Group, David Wichmann. Her frame may be tiny, but don't mistake that for weakness. She is one of the strongest women you will ever meet. As she typed, Erika bared her soul. Of longing to live. Of seeing her daughter grow up. Of the need for "my only option," a liver transplant. "Given that my life hangs in the balance based on this review," she wrote, "it is unconscionable that it has not been undertaken with the level of competence and professionalism anyone would expect of UHC." She blasted what she called the "shockingly incompetent manner" in which the country's largest insurance company handled her case. She outlined what she described as a series of errors made in the review process -- ranging from UHC saying her liver failure stems from "chemotherapy toxicity" to an insurance medical director who erroneously said she had "life-threatening lesions." "Neither are true," she wrote Wichmann. "(UHC's) handling of my case has been plagued by unnecessary delays, incomplete responses, inept scheduling, contradictory statements, and worst of all repeated factual errors regarding my medical history. "Most importantly, decisions based on inaccurate information and analysis have already delayed my listing and transplant two months." Loie has been with her mother throughout the process. Erika calls her "my tiniest, most amazing companion." One review doctor noted she had a "9cm tumor" in her liver, she wrote, apparently unaware that was actually the hole from the ablation surgery resulting in her chronic liver failure. "I have been doing every single thing I possibly can do to stay alive for these past four years, scratching and clawing by day and praying every night an opportunity like this would come along," Erika wrote. "Now, when the promise of my long-term survival is actually greatest, I need UHC's support more than ever." She sent the letter via FedEx on April 11. Her concerns were valid. Her transplant team at the Cleveland Clinic made clear to UHC's appeals unit the primary cause of her liver failure was not from chemo toxicity or cancer, but instead was the result of "a consequence of complications following microwave ablation." "Of note, what mainly drives the indication of liver transplantation in this case is liver failure and NOT liver metastases from colorectal cancer, which makes the patient's post-transplant oncologic outcome more encouraging," wrote Dr. Federico Aucejo, the director of the Cleveland Clinic's Liver Cancer Program, in an appeal on Erika's behalf on March 6. He did note that she had some chemotoxicity, which was a secondary cause of liver failure. "The opinion of the experienced Cleveland Clinic multidisciplinary liver transplant committee (is) that liver transplantation would prolong this young patient's life substantially, and that there is NO other treatment alternative that could match this outcome at this point in time." Two days after sending her letter, Erika and her husband were told the UHC executive team had received it and that her case was undergoing further review. Several times, the family said it was told a decision would be made by a certain date; those dates came and went without a decision. As time wore on, Erika grew ill with a high fever and was hospitalized for several days. It was the fifth time she'd been admitted since February 2, the day Cleveland Clinic doctors approved her for a transplant. On Instagram, she posted an illustration with the words "waiting, waiting, waiting" on a pink backdrop with black crosses. "Waiting for insurance to approve the only thing that will save me: a liver," she wrote. "Waiting for my liver to fail completely; waiting to die. Waiting to be saved." Erika has undergone multiple surgeries and faced more than 70 rounds of chemotherapy. 'Wait or die' More than 100,000 Americans are on wait lists for organ transplants, and every hour someone dies while waiting for the life-saving surgery, said Dr. Andrew Cameron, the chief of transplant surgery at Johns Hopkins and the surgical director of its liver transplant program. For liver transplants, 20,000 Americans are on the wait list and only 7,000 will receive a new liver in 2018, according to Cameron, who is not connected to Erika's case. "The lucky few undergo a transformative life-saving procedure," he said. "Those who don't get that lottery ticket wait or die." Transplant teams at hospitals spend hours upon hours -- months even -- assessing and debating whether a patient is a good candidate for a transplant, Cameron said, typically with more than a dozen doctors weighing in. It is deeply disturbing, he said, when an insurance company overrules the "decision made by a thoughtful, careful transplant team to utilize one of society's limited resources -- that precious gift to save somebody's life." The negotiated cost for a liver transplant for an insurance company is roughly $200,000, Cameron said, adding it is "exceedingly rare" for an insurer to deny a transplant. "That is highly unusual and highly undesirable," Cameron told CNN. In Cleveland, Dr. Aucejo is trailblazing the field for patients like Erika, having performed the only two transplants in America this century on people suffering from what is called unresectable metastasis in the liver from colorectal cancer. It's groundbreaking and could prove transformative. "I hope that we can achieve good results and set precedent," he said. Dr. Skye Mayo, a surgical oncologist at Oregon Health & Science University, has treated Erika Zak since 2015. When you're trying such a new approach, Dr. Aucejo said, it can be difficult getting insurers to agree to treatment and he wished getting them aboard could be done "in a more expeditious way." He explained that in the late 1980s and 1990s, surgeons tried transplants on patients like Erika with "unresectable metastasis in the liver from colorectal cancer," but the "outcomes were not good." Only 18% of the patients lived past five years, so the transplants were stopped, Dr. Aucejo said. But, he emphasized, most of the bad outcomes were the result of technical complications and post-transplant management, not from the cancer returning. The field of transplants has greatly improved in the decades since, he said. Doctors in Europe, primarily in Norway, have begun changing the field, he said, finding that about 50-60% of patients with Erika's condition survive a transplant past five years. That is a substantial difference, he said. Dr. Mayo, Erika's surgical oncologist in Oregon, said no one at the insurance company reached out to him during the review process "to help explain the facts of her case." That is troubling, he said, especially when it's one of the most complicated cases a doctor will ever see. "It is frustrating when it seems that the facts aren't all being considered," Dr. Mayo said. "Her life now is not limited by her cancer," he said. "It's limited by the fact she will go into liver failure and die within the next several months if she doesn't have a liver transplant." Erika wrote a note for her daughter if she does not survive: "I am with you always; even if you can no longer see my face or feel my hands through your hair." When opposites attract Erika was in the prime of her life. At 34, she'd given birth to her first and only child, Loïe, the little girl who Mom calls "my tiniest, most amazing companion." She'd been married to the love of her life for four years. She and Scott met in 1998 when he was at Brown University and she was at the Rhode Island School of Design, both in Providence. The two were polar opposites. He was the MVP of Brown's soccer team and majored in economics. She was into the arts and majored in textile design. He was from the tightly wound East Coast, she from the free-wheeling West Coast. The connection wasn't immediate, so Erika had a mutual friend slip a tiny drawing to Scott. It contained her phone number; he called it. Soon they clicked. Scott made her laugh and feel beautiful. Erika saw in him someone who was kind and devoted; in her, he found the woman who he'd always searched for, with a captivating sense of humor and a sailor's mouth. They tied the knot on Halloween in 2009 in the wine country of Healdsburg, California. Her career was taking off, too. She was working for Old Navy, choosing and designing the fabrics, prints and plaids for the company's baby and toddler division. While she was pregnant, she was promoted to senior textile designer. "It was all coming together," she wrote on her blog. "And then, like that, my foundation crumbled." During the final trimester of her pregnancy, she'd experienced pain in her stomach. It was thought to be nothing more than part of the difficulties of pregnancy. But in the weeks after delivery, the pain grew excruciating and she felt a lump on her side. On April 8, 2014, she received the awful news -- that she had stage 4 metastatic colon cancer that had spread to her liver. Her daughter was just 3 months old. "Worst Day Ever" read the headline of her blog. She had survived cancer once before. At 28, she was diagnosed with thyroid cancer. Her thyroid was removed, and life continued as normal. It was nothing close to a stage 4 diagnosis. In the years after her colon cancer diagnosis, she blogged about most everything. Of losing her father to Alzheimer's at age 83. Of the pain over two friends' deaths -- including an oncologist she'd met in a cancer support group. "Have you ever cried and screamed so hard that the blood vessels around your eyes burst?" she wrote. In her blog posts, she was brutally honest about her cancer and the effects of chemotherapy. Erika and Scott Powers met in college while they were both in school in Rhode Island. She'd sit on the shower floor in a fetal position, screaming and sobbing. It was "anguish and pain and longing for my former life and utter disbelief for the war my body was waging on itself," she blogged. Her fingertips felt like they had been "burned on a hot pan most of the time." Her hands cramped into weird, contorted positions. Her hair was dry and brittle, like straw. Her energy was so drained she felt twice her age. As a teen, she'd suffered debilitating depression and anxiety that was so bad at times, she said, "I hoped that I could just disappear forever." "It's funny how afraid I am of that now: disappearing. How much I want to live. How important it feels to be here," she wrote on December 1, 2016, two and half years into her cancer battle. She would face multiple surgeries and undergo more than 70 rounds of chemo. On February 28, 2017, she wrote: "This is chemo day. Scream in your pillow day. Hide in the shower day. Lie to your baby day. Tell her you're going to work day. Vials and vials of blood day. Tell your doctor you're angry day. Make your husband cry day. Poison your body day." On another day, she penned: "Cancer is a slow form of torture. It strips you of dignity; of peace of mind; of stability." On April 4, 2017, nearly three years to the day of her diagnosis, she and her daughter had a soul-crushing conversation. The cancer had been eradicated from her colon shortly after the diagnosis, but it remained in her liver. "Mommy, are you going to last?" Loïe asked. "What do you mean, Loïe?" "Will you be here forever and ever?" the girl asked. "I really don't know, babe." As she awaited word from her insurer about the transplant, Erika said, "I'm mad and grouchy, but I still feel like I have a fighting chance." Six days later, Erika underwent the ablation surgery at a facility in New York to target two small tumors on her liver. Something went wrong. She ended up with the hole in her liver. To save her life, surgeons had to block off the veins and arteries going to her liver. The entire central part of her liver died, Dr. Mayo said. Two bags are now attached to her abdomen to drain the bile. With bile going immediately outside her body, instead of through the liver and her body, Erika was susceptible to extreme sickness and potential fatal bleeds. "All of those things culminated in what is now liver failure for her," Dr. Mayo said. "She's in this cycle right now where she's losing on a daily basis some of her body's most vital fluids." The cancer in her liver, meanwhile, was progressing on a path, he said, where "she would die of cancer." She could no longer tolerate any standard form of chemo treatment. Her doctors in Oregon last fall tried one last treatment to fend off her cancer: a groundbreaking immunotherapy cancer drug called pembrolizumab, known by its brand name Keytruda. Her sky-high tumor marker levels fell to normal. "She had an incredible response to this new drug," Dr. Mayo said. "I think all of the cancer remaining in her body is dead at this point. What she will die of is liver failure." With a new liver, he said, her problems with bleeding and high blood pressure could be resolved. Her jaundice would be gone, too. But transplant surgery is not without major risks. Most of those who've received a transplant with unresectable metastasis in the liver from colorectal cancer, Cleveland's Dr. Aucejo said, experience a recurrence of cancer within 12 months. Most of the cancers that return can be treated with standard care, like chemotherapy or surgery, he said, profoundly prolonging their lives. For a small subset of patients, though, the cancer comes back aggressively and it's not treatable with chemo or surgery, he said. "Unfortunately in that subset of patients, the survival is more dismal." While it's impossible to predict the outcome, he said, Erika shows "features that may do well." There's no evidence cancer has spread beyond her liver, he said. Plus, patients who had their colon cancer removed two years or more before the transplant, Dr. Aucejo said, tend do well. Erika had the cancerous portion of her colon removed in 2014: "That's a good indicator." Dr. Aucejo also emphasized the criteria for transplant qualification is stringent and that Erika shows promise. "We're talking about distributing limited organs," he said. "Again, we have to be very careful that we're not giving organs to people who are not going to benefit from it when there's people dying with standard indications because there's not enough organs." Erika Zak comes to the hospital every three weeks for a groundbreaking immunotherapy drug. Her doctors says that without it, she would have died of cancer. 'This is so messed up' In the days and weeks after Erika fired off her letter to the CEO, her husband, Scott, worked the phones. He felt lost in an endless loop of delays and broken promises as to when the insurer would reach its decision. Finally, they were told a decision would come May 2. Erika couldn't sleep the night before. She pulled out her phone and recorded a message, weeping for much of the video. "My life is literally in their hands, and every day I feel myself kind of fading away more and more," she says. "I don't want to leave. I don't want to die." The next day came. Each minute crept by. Shortly after 2 p.m., Scott's phone rang. It was their point of contact with UnitedHealthcare. He had crushing news: Denied. He explained Erika's case was sent back to the three reviewing doctors. One of them, he said, "changed his decision from 'not promising' to 'promising.'" However, the other two doctors ruled the transplant not to be promising: "The bottom line is they're upholding that decision." The doctor who sided in favor of the transplant, their UHC contact told them, was the only one of the three who talked directly with her transplant surgeon. Scott grew furious. "Honestly, you know that is messed up," he said. "I don't know who you've got to go to, but I would go to someone now and have someone call us, because this is so messed up." Scott Powers has advocated for his wife since she was first diagnosed with cancer. Scott pressed for more information. He got little. "Scott, I know what you've been through," the UHC rep told him. "I know what you're going through." Erika sat silently for the first 10 minutes of the conservation, absorbing the news and what it meant for her fate. But at those words, it was time to speak up. "Hey!" she shouted. "This is Erika, and you've never heard from me before. You don't know what we're going through. Because I'm dying." Through tears, she said, "I need a liver transplant, and I need it now." The UHC rep confided he "was not hoping for this outcome. I was hoping that I'd have good news." He suggested Erika and Scott fax over any new information they thought might be relevant. He also acknowledged the delays in recent weeks were not in keeping with the company's policies. "Someone needs to be accountable for this," he said. "You know, why, when we have these guidelines in place, did we not follow them? "That needs to be looked into," he said, adding, "I'm not trying to sweep anything under the rug." He apologized for having to be the bearer of bad news, saying his goal had been to end the day on a positive note. "Like I said, I wish I had better news." After more than 30 minutes, he ended with: "Have a good night, OK." Not the words the couple wanted to hear. Erika went numb. Heartbroken and angry didn't even begin to describe her feelings. Scott felt equally distraught. "I just want her to get a liver," he said. "She deserves that." The CEO never responded -- not by email, phone or letter. Erika Zak says her will to live is motivated by her daughter, Loïe. Here, they play on the couch as the family dog, Maddie, watches. A sudden change Five days later, on Monday, May 7, a surprise call came. Erika and Scott were preparing Loïe for school when Scott's phone rang. They had spent the weekend trying to figure out their next move, while trying not to focus too much on when Erika might need Death with Dignity. They knew they had one appeal left, and they didn't want to blow it. They hadn't sent any new information since the last call. It was their UHC rep on the phone. This time, he had good news: The insurer would cover Erika's transplant. When Scott heard she'd been approved, he jumped up and down. Erika watched him from across the room. There was no explanation for the change. They were told to focus on Erika's health and next steps. Erika called her mother, who unleashed a guttural scream at work. Loïe has grown excited at the prospect of her mother's transplant. Erika just wants to be able to walk her to school or take her to the playground. Dr. Mayo was preparing for surgery when he took Scott's call. Elation spread across the Knight Cancer Institute at Oregon Health & Science University where doctors, nurses and staff celebrated. In Cleveland, Dr. Aucejo heard the welcome news from his transplant coordinator. He'd not spoken with anyone at UHC about the case in the five days since the previous denial. "They had decided on their own. We hadn't gotten back to them," he said. "I'm happy they ended up sharing our vision." I had been speaking with Erika and Scott for this story over the last month and had reviewed her medical records extensively. During the May 2 phone call in which Erika was told her transplant had been denied, Scott told the UHC rep that the couple had been speaking with a member of the national news media. I was on a flight to Oregon when they received the joyous news. "UHC just called and approved Erika. Unreal. Know you're in flight but call whenever," Scott texted. When we met a couple hours later, Erika's emotions were still raw. She thought this would be her last Mother's Day. Now, suddenly, she has hope for more. Glancing at her daughter and husband, Erika broke down in tears. "I can't imagine not being here," she said. "It's not because I keep the family together or anything. It's just the love I have for them." "Mommy, why are you crying?" Loïe said. "I'm crying because I love you." Loïe placed her fingers in her mother's right hand. "Love you," Loïe said. As she and Loïe locked hands, the tattoo on Erika's wrist displayed a fitting message: "Be brave." During her cancer fight, Erika and her twin sister got matching tatoos with one message: "Be brave." Epilogue UnitedHealthcare declined to answer CNN's questions about the handling of Erika's case, except to issue this one-sentence statement: "We had on-going conversations with her husband and contacted him as soon as the decision was made to approve the transplant request." Even after the approval, Erika said she still wanted to move forward with the story, to speak up for others who've experienced the pain of similar denials. To let them know they're not alone. To encourage them to be their own best advocates. It can mean the difference between life and death. "No one should have to fight and work that hard," she said, "especially when I have all these doctors saying it will save my life." Since the approval, the family has been preparing to move to Cleveland for Erika's surgery and recovery at the Cleveland Clinic. Erika was officially notified Friday morning she was placed on the liver transplant wait list. It's impossible to know how long the family will be in Cleveland or when the transplant will occur. Transplant candidates are given what is known as a "MELD score," ranging from 6 to 40. Those closest to 40 are given the highest priority. Erika's MELD score has hovered around 22. If her score is still in that range, Dr. Aucejo said, her transplant could be a few months away. "But this varies a lot," he said. "There are many variables at play here." A patient for a liver transplant, he said, is typically hospitalized 7 to 10 days for the procedure, with a recovery time of 4 to 8 weeks before the patient resumes normal activities. Would Erika have had the transplant by now if the surgery had been approved in February? Every day Erika says she can feel her body deteriorating. "I don't want to die," she says. "That is very speculative, at the least," Dr. Aucejo said. "I couldn't say that." He chose his words carefully, saying it's a "complex dynamic" between hospitals and insurance companies and he doesn't want to upset that balance. "She's been approved and that's what matters -- and hopefully we can move forward with her transplant." Dr. Aucejo said he can somewhat understand the insurance company's initial reluctance at coverage because the procedure is so rare for patients with Erika's condition. "It's a new territory," he told CNN. "I can't blame anybody." If Erika receives her transplant and succeeds, Dr. Aucejo said, she could help set precedent for many others down the road. More than anything, she would finally get a chance to be the mother she wants to be.
(CNN) It's become a numbing Washington ritual. Donald Trump shatters a traditional boundary on the exercise of presidential power. Or he uses inflammatory language that stirs racial animosities. Or he's hit by new revelations in the overlapping investigations into his campaign's contacts with foreign governments in 2016 and his own tangled financial and personal affairs before the presidency. As each of these bombshells detonate, sometimes within hours of each other, congressional Republican leaders then react with little more than a shrug. Even more important, the vast majority of the Republican electoral coalition increasingly responds the same way. All of these dynamics played out multiple times this past week. Trump shattered boundaries by openly demanding the Department of Justice investigate the ongoing special counsel examination of his campaign and by privately pressuring the US Postal Service to raise rates on Amazon , whose owner, Jeff Bezos, also owns the Washington Post, which Trump considers an enemy. He used George Wallace-like language in describing members of the MS-13 gang as "animals." And he faced the startling revelation that during the 2016 campaign his son Donald Trump Jr., who had earlier convened with Russians offering damaging information on Hillary Clinton, also met with emissaries of Middle Eastern governments offering to help in the election. After all that, Republicans responded this week with the sort of silence usually expected from the crowd at the 18th hole of a golf tournament. The Trump paradox The elimination of any distance between Trump and the conventional Republican interests that controlled the party before him has happened so incrementally it can be difficult to discern from day to day. But it remains one of the central political dynamics of 2018. Over the long term, Trump's success at stamping his polarizing brand on the GOP remains a huge electoral gamble for the party because it risks alienating the young, well-educated and diverse groups growing, rather than shrinking, in the electorate. But in the near-term, the GOP's choice to ally so unequivocally with such a unique president may have the paradoxical effect of producing a much more conventional midterm election than seemed possible earlier this year. And that means for Democrats to secure the gains they seek in November, they will need to overcome the typical challenges they face in a midterm election far more than they expected even only a few months ago. In both 2010 and 2014, the two midterm elections under Barack Obama, Democrats suffered huge losses. Each time the party faced similar problems. The biggest was a collapse in turnout among young voters, and a smaller, but still significant, decline among minorities. In both 2010 and 2014, the share of the vote cast by young adults 18-29, a strongly Democratic-leaning group, was fully six percentage points lower than in the presidential race just two years earlier, according to exit polls. Each time, the non-white share of the vote dropped three points compared to the previous presidential contest. In turn, seniors, who now lean strongly toward the GOP, represented a significantly greater share of the vote in each midterm than in the previous presidential race. Those turnout problems for Democrats were compounded by anemic performances among white men and women without a college degree, and white men with degrees. In both 2010 and 2014, according to exit polls, Democratic congressional candidates carried no more than 36% of voters in each of those groups. The party's performance among college-educated white women was better (43% in 2010 and 47% in 2014) but still below their strongest showings with those women in recent years. Through much of 2017, it appeared possible that Trump's general weakness might solve all of these traditional Democratic problems -- or at least render them inconsequential. Especially during the extended Republican struggle to repeal the Affordable Care Act, Trump's presidency sometimes seemed at risk of functional collapse under the combined pressure of special counsel Robert Mueller's Russian election meddling investigation, internal administrative chaos and incompetence, chronic divisions between the White House and congressional Republicans and the president's inability or unwillingness to control a belligerent and volatile temperament. It's still possible any of those factors -- or some combination of them -- could politically debilitate Trump or, much less likely, even force him for office. But it no longer seems plausible that he will simply implode. Rather over the past several months -- particularly since the passage of the GOP tax plan late last year -- Trump has shown clear signs of consolidating more of the usual Republican institutional and electoral base than he had earlier, despite all the norm-breaking excesses of his presidency. His approval rating in most polls has moved up from the high thirties to the low forties. That's still weaker than it should be given the robust economy, but a clear sign that he has recaptured many traditionally center-right voters. Over that same period, the tightening generic ballot test measuring preferences for the 2018 election show much of that same support drifting back, like metal filings toward a magnet, around congressional Republicans. That doesn't mean Democrats can't retake the House or conceivably even the Senate in 2018 or beat Trump in 2020. But it does mean they can't rely on Republican disarray to power those victories. Despite all of Trump's unique liabilities, the key institutions and voter blocks of red America show every sign of mobilizing to maintain their control of power in Washington. Support for Trump in key groups Since he took office, Trump's approval rating has always been high among self-identified Republicans and core Republican groups. The most recent national polls from CNN and the Pew Research Center , for instance, both put his approval rating among white men without a college degree at a robust 66%. More than three-fifths of those men also said they intend to support Republican candidates for Congress this fall. Even more telling may be the preferences the polls recorded among two groups of generally Republican-leaning white voters who Democrats have hoped would abandon the GOP under Trump: white men with a college degree, and white women without one. The two polls vary slightly in their measurement of how those voters view Trump himself: in the CNN poll, both groups give him an approval rating around 50%, while in the Pew Survey, he draws about 45% approval from both. Yet both surveys show that Republicans now hold a solid lead with both groups in their preferences for the midterm election. Both surveys show Republicans now drawing over 50% of college-educated white men, while among blue-collar women Pew puts the GOP slightly above 50% and CNN shows them just slightly below. In each survey, Democrats are winning only about two-fifths of both groups. Those advantages aren't as lopsided as Republicans enjoyed in 2010 or 2014, but if they endure, they may be sufficient to blunt the Democrats' gains in 2018. A shift to Democrats by college-educated women The clearest improvement for Democrats from 2010 and 2014 is that both polls show Trump facing disapproval from about two-thirds of college-educated white women. Almost exactly three-fifths of those women in each survey say they plan to vote Democratic in November. That's significantly more than Democrats have won among that group in any congressional election since 1992, according to exit polls, and that shift alone could allow them to capture several seats Republicans hold in white-collar suburbs. The 2017 elections also have demonstrated a high level of engagement among African-American voters, especially women-and they register passionate distaste for Trump in polls. But if those are the only ways the electorate in 2018 differs from 2010 and 2014, Democrats would likely be disappointed in the results. The party is betting on greater engagement from its core voters than among Republicans, but a succession of Trump policy decisions aimed at energizing the GOP base (such as hardline approaches to immigration) may be narrowing that gap: the CNN survey showed only a modest six percentage point gap between the share of Republican and Democratic-leaning voters who said they were very enthusiastic about voting. And while recent reports show voter registration rising among younger voters in some key states, the proportion of younger adults who say they are closely following news about the election was far lower than for any other age group in the Pew poll. That's despite the deep opposition to Trump that they register in all surveys. The headwinds facing Republicans in November remain formidable: the last three times one party went into a midterm election with unified control of government (the Democrats in 1994 and 2010 and the Republicans in 2006) voters revoked it. Trump's approval rating after his recent gains is higher than George W. Bush's was at the time of the 2006 Republican loss, but still lower than Obama or Bill Clinton during their midterm defeats. And while polls show mixed evidence of a Democratic turnout advantage in November, in practice, party voters have stampeded to the polls in the actual elections held since Trump took office. Fundraising for Democrats is astronomical as well. But compared to six months ago, the constant gales swirling around Trump no longer look as certain to blow away all of the GOP's traditional midterm advantages. Nor does it appear likely that any new revelation in the various investigations of Trump will dissolve support for him or the GOP Congress. As in earlier midterm elections, mobilizing young people still looks like a challenge for Democrats, as does persuading more blue-collar white women and white-collar white men. In other words, even with all of the turmoil around Trump, there is no cavalry coming to rescue blue America from Republican dominance of Washington. Democrats will need to storm those gates themselves, beginning with finding ways to overcome the resurfacing obstacles that have hurt them so badly in midterm elections before.
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — An early-morning house fire destroyed a home that once belonged to a key player in Kansas City’s baseball history. Just before 3 a.m. Tuesday, fire crews were called to a home on 28th Street in Kansas City, Missouri. When they arrived, the home was fully engulfed in flames. At one point firefighters evacuated the home due to concerns with the roof. The former home of Baseball Hall of Famer and Kansas City Monarch Satchel Paige went up in flames overnight near 28th & Benton Blvd. Nobody was inside. House has been vacant for some time. pic.twitter.com/z6Pc6GcxVh — Jason Gould (@OvernightPhotog) May 29, 2018 The home was abandoned but was once owned by Hall of Fame pitcher and former KC Monarch Satchel Paige. Paige was the first African-American pitcher to play in a World Series and played a game with the KC A's at age 59. Click here to learn more about him. "Me and my little sister, we used to make mud pies...play jump rope and have my brother pull us in the wagon," Lula Paige, Satchel's daughter, said of her childhood at the house. "It's kind of sad for my family, because this is a history house for them," Andrea Paige, Satchel's granddaughter, added. Carter Foster and his wife moved onto the block while Paige still lived in the home, and said Tuesday morning that he hated to see the home go the way it did. "This was a kind of landmark, and we are really going to miss that," Foster said. The house looks much different than it did when the Paige family called it home. It's boarded up and has been the subject of 47 property violations with the city since 2010. Current owner Brian Cushon inherited the house from his mother in 2016 and said they've struggled to keep squatters and their litter away from the property. Cushon added that just two weeks ago, a neighbor saw someone entering the house. News of Tuesday morning's fire was devastating to Jan Johnson, a member of the Santa Fe Area Council. The neighborhood association just discussed finding the funding to restore the house at a meeting last weekend. "When you have a house like this, you just don't bulldoze it," Johnson said. Bob Kendrick, president of the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, said the museum also had hopes of one day making the home into something more. "In the back of our minds, we had hoped to do something to help people understand the greatness of Satchel Paige — who was a part of this community for so many years," Kendrick said. Cushon confirmed to 41 Action News both the neighborhood association and the NLBM have asked him not to bulldoze the house until someone can take a closer look at the structure. "We prefer to think that it hasn't been destroyed, that there's a hiccup in our process and we have to deal with it," Johnson said. The Paige family just wishes something would have been done sooner. "I feel like they should've kept it and kept it up, and it could have been a family house. Maybe if it was more of a family house like it used to be, then it wouldn't be like this right now," Andrea Paige said. Crews are still working to determine the cause of the fire. ---
You've just enjoyed a tasty burger for lunch and are back at your desk slugging away. Five minutes in and you're overwhelmed with sleepiness, so much so that the space under your desk is looking pretty damn comfy right about now. But why do we get sleepy after lunch? Is it just because we're full, or is it a sign we're not doing lunch right? "Feeling a little tired after eating a meal is perfectly normal," Robbie Clark, dietitian and sports nutritionist, told The Huffington Post Australia. "There are a few reasons why we experience the post-lunch slump, but the main reason is due to the digestive process." Although it might not feel like it, the body uses a fair amount of energy to digest the pasta you've just eaten. "Our body requires energy to function and survive. We get this energy from our food, which is broken down through the digestive process and converted into fuel, or glucose, and then macronutrients provide calories (or energy) to our bodies. Our digestive system triggers all kinds of responses within our body," Clark explained. Another reason we may feel sleepy after lunch, or after eating in general, is due to the amount of insulin produced after certain meals, which can trigger our 'happy' and 'sleep' hormones. "After eating -- particularly sugary foods -- insulin is produced by the pancreas which then converts these sugars (glucose), circulating in the bloodstream into glycogen within our cells," Clark said. "Excessive secretion of insulin causes the essential amino acid tryptophan to move into the brain. Once in the brain, it leads to increased production of serotonin and melatonin, which are two neurotransmitters that have a calming effect and help regulate sleep. Interestingly, around 90 percent of the body's serotonin is found in the gut, where it regulates intestinal movements." Accredited practising dietitian Jemma O'Hanlon agrees, saying the amount of carbohydrates we eat at lunch can affect how sleepy we feel afterward. "Carbohydrate containing foods such as bread, pasta, rice and potatoes boost the production of a neurotransmitter known as serotonin, which can boost our mood but also make us feel content and possibly sleepy," O'Hanlon told HuffPost Australia. Cheese, turkey and bread can all make us feel a little sleepy. "It's often when we've eaten quite a large meal that we may feel uncomfortable and sluggish, as well, so it's always good to listen to our hunger signals and stop when we feel comfortably satisfied." Another factor that may contribute to drowsiness after a meal is if you suffer from a food allergy or intolerance. "Food allergies and intolerances are usually associated with digestive problems such as bloating, gas, reflux, indigestion, constipation or diarrhoea, as well as lethargy," Clark said. "Finally, general overeating, large portions and the consumption of particularly fatty meals can leave you feeling sleepy because the body has to work overtime and utilise more energy to break down the quantity of food." On top of these physiological reasons as to why we may feel sleepy after lunch, there are also a few other key foods which can contribute. The feeling when your lunch order has arrived. "Though all foods are digested in much the same way, not all foods affect your body in the same way," Clark explained. "For example, you've probably heard or experienced that turkey can make you sleepier than other foods. Turkey and other high protein foods such as spinach, soy, eggs, cheese, tofu and fish contain higher levels of tryptophan. Studies have shown that cherries (particularly sour cherry) affects melatonin levels, which is the hormone responsible for inducing sleep." Another sleepiness inducing food is white bread, particularly when compared to whole grain, wholemeal or multigrain bread. "When you consume white bread your body quickly absorbs the fibre-less starches and refined sugars rapidly, which causes a spike your blood glucose levels. This spike is short lived and results in plummeting blood glucose levels, which can lead to feelings of tiredness and sleepiness," Clark said. To avoid after lunch sleepiness, Clark and O'Hanlon recommend the following. The feeling when you've finished said lunch. 1. Don't skip breakfast We've all been told how important breakfast is for both our bodies and mind. According to Clark, eating breakfast can also help reduce tiredness later in the day. "If you skip breakfast, it sets the energy standard for the rest of the day," Clark said. "Plus, come lunch time you will be extremely hungry and are more likely to make poorer food choices or have a larger portion." 2. Eat smaller meals throughout the day "A large meal requires more energy to digest. Instead of eating large lunches, you may want to try eating smaller meals throughout the day," Clark said. "For example, balance a small lunch with mid-morning and mid-afternoon snacks so that you meet your recommended dietary intake of calories throughout the day." "Eating smaller, more frequent meals across the day can help keep our blood sugar levels steady and give us those regular top ups of energy," O'Hanlon added. "It's never good to overdo it at any meal, and getting the balance of carbohydrates, proteins and good fats can help fuel us for longer." Don't forget to fill up on brekkie. 3. Opt for macro-nutrient balanced meals "Instead of choosing processed foods and starchy sides, make sure that your lunch is balanced and healthy by opting to have a lunch that features colourful vegetables as the main attraction, and a serving of whole grains and lean protein," Clark said. "Other food tips to avoid slumped energy levels include drinking plenty of water to stay hydrated, avoiding too much sugar and refined carbohydrates, and eating smaller, more frequent meals. "Also, to help balance blood sugar and insulin levels, choose natural foods that are high in fibre and protein such as whole grains, legumes and nuts." To know how to choose (or make) macro-nutrient balanced meals, O'Hanlon recommends focusing on the healthy plate model. "Aim for half your plate to be non-starchy veggies, one quarter to be lean meat or alternatives, and one quarter to be whole grains," she said. "Often we tend to skimp on the vegetable or salad component, but it's important to get a few serves of our 'five a day' at lunch time and this will help balance the rest of our plate." Stir fry with brown rice is a winning combo of carbs, fat and protein. 4. Go outside or get moving Instead of spending your lunch time inside, enjoy your meal outside and, if you can, schedule in a walk. "Exercise can keep you alert during the day by optimising oxygen and blood circulation around the body and to the brain, minimising the risk of your post-meal slump," Clark said. "Getting outdoors is also going to help increase oxygenation to the brain." 5. Check in with the doctor If you're constantly feeling tired and it's affecting your day-to-day life, O'Hanlon recommends checking in with a health professional. "If you're feeling tired it could be also due to a vitamin or mineral deficiency. For example, iron deficiency, which is very common in young females, particular those not eating meat," O'Hanlon said. "If you're feeling tired regularly, I'd recommend visiting your local GP and having a general check-up." This story was originally published on 01/09/2016. Follow us on Snapchat! ALSO ON HUFFPOST AUSTRALIA
(CNN) Australia has ordered a sweeping review of its intelligence laws amid growing concerns over interference by foreign agents in the country. Described by the government as the most significant review in 40 years, it will take 18 months and will be led by a former head of the country's intelligence agency, the Australian Security Intelligence Organization (ASIO). "The Prime Minister considered that now is the time to have a top to tail review of all of the national intelligence community agencies," Attorney General Christian Porter told CNN-affiliate Sky News Australia Wednesday. Although it wasn't expressly mentioned in the announcement, the review comes at a time when concerns are rising in Australia over the influence of the Chinese government in the country's affairs. ASIO Director General Duncan Lewis said in the past week the level of foreign interference activity against Australia was "unprecedented." "This is not a theoretical proposition; the reality is that acts of espionage and foreign interference are occurring against Australian interests both in Australia and overseas," he told a senate committee on May 24. Rory Medcalf, head of the National Security College at the Australian National University, told CNN the big three security risks facing Australia, which the new review would partly address, are terrorism, cyberwarfare and foreign influence. He said Australia was still in the "early stage" of its debate over foreign influence. "This is about having contemporary laws ... we will need to protect Australia's sovereignty in a more competitive and uncertain future," he said. 'The Australian people stand up' Attorney General Porter said the review would focus on streamlining intelligence sharing among Australian authorities as well as ensuring all agencies were properly protected in legislation. The new review follows a series of tough, new anti-foreign influence laws currently being debated by the Australian government, including a ban on all political donations from overseas. When announcing the new laws, Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said "the Australian people (have stood) up" in Mandarin, a reference to Mao Zedong's speech at the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949. Turnbull has since said the proposed laws are not targeted at any one country, but the Chinese government has reacted coldly to the legislation. A series of angry editorials and opinion pieces in Chinese state media labeled the laws "disgraceful" and "absurd," while Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said in February that remarks about Chinese influence in Australia were "irresponsible." There were even suggestions in local media Australian ministers were having trouble getting visas to visit China. But Medcalf said Beijing could be kicking up a fuss to avoid similar legislation elsewhere. "It is in China's interest to stir up the impression that it's not acceptable for countries to introduce such laws ... there is a soft power game going on," he said. 'Substantial problems with interference' In the past two months two former US officials have voiced concerns about the level of Chinese influence both in Australia and its neighbor New Zealand. During a hearing of the US China Economic and Security Review Commission, former US government analyst Peter Mattis said the United States should reconsider its intelligence sharing arrangement with New Zealand due to issues over foreign interference. "Australia and New Zealand both face substantial problems with interference by the Chinese Communist Party. In both cases, the CCP has gotten very close to or inside the political core, if you will, of both countries," Mattis told the commission. The arrangement, known as Five Eyes, is an intelligence sharing deal between the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Likewise, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said in a speech in Auckland in early May there was a "global battle" taking place. "Experts are sounding the alarm about Chinese efforts to gain political power and influence policy decisions ... It's just getting started," she told the audience.
Why would people do this? Because the internet is a bad place. The remains of a man trying to escape the volcanic eruption of Mount Vesuvius nearly 2,000 years ago were found in Pompeii, Italy, this week, and the photographs have become a meme. Archaeologists believe the man was fleeing to safety, having managed to escape the first volcanic eruption, but was subsequently crushed by a large stone in the process. They believe the stone was a door jamb, according to USA Today. Additionally, archaeologists believe the man was around 35-years-old and suffering from a bone infection. His head has not yet been found. As for what people are saying about this ancient marvel on Twitter, well, we’ll let you read for yourself:
Ariana Grande just sweetened the deal. The singer had already announced the summer release of her new album “Sweetener” ― which proved exciting enough for fans. But a preview she shared of a new collaboration with rapper Nicki Minaj just sent the faithful into happy shock. It’s called “The Light Is Coming.” Check it out:
friend: okay this is the first date so pretend like you’re not too interested me: okay *at dinner* date: my parents both died when I was really young me: who cares
We’re still not over Chris Pratt and Anna Faris’ split, and it sounds like the “Jurassic World” star isn’t, either. The actor is finally opening up about his divorce for the first time, nine months after the former couple announced they were separating after eight years of marriage. “Divorce sucks,” Pratt told Entertainment Weekly as part of the magazine’s summer movie preview “But at the end of the day, we’ve got a great kid who’s got two parents who love him very much. And we’re finding a way to navigate this while still remaining friends and still being kind to one another. It’s not ideal, but yeah, I think both of us are actually probably doing better.” Pratt and Faris share a child together ― 5-year-old son Jack. Both are seeking joint custody and have reserved the right to obtain spousal support, according to Pratt’s filing, obtained by TMZ.
Samantha Vinograd is a CNN National Security Analyst. She served on President Obama's National Security Council from 2009-2013 and at the Treasury Department under President Bush. Follow her @sam_vinograd . The views expressed in this commentary are her own. This commentary has been updated to reflect the news. (CNN) Every week, I offer a glimpse of the kind of intelligence assessments that are likely to come across the desk of the President of the United States. Modeled on the President's Daily Briefing, or PDB, which the director of national intelligence prepares for President Trump almost daily, my Presidential Weekly Briefing focuses on the topics and issues that Trump needs to know about to make informed decisions. Here's this week's briefing: North Korea summit: Peer pressure Mr. President, you will be under pressure from all sides to proceed with a summit with Kim Jong Un. North Korea: The totalitarian regime will try to keep summit prospects warm because Kim probably believes he can get some economic relief, a reputational bump and a security blanket if he keeps negotiations ongoing. He thinks that if the diplomatic track is alive he can market himself as a committed, responsible negotiating partner. And while a face-to-face with Trump would help make Kim a media darling, there's a more significant benefit for him: a greater likelihood that other countries would consider lessening pressure on Pyongyang. At the same time, North Korea likely views a live negotiating track as a deterrent to a US military option. Mr. President, Kim's calculus is probably that if you think the diplomatic track could yield a positive outcome, you will be less likely to turn to military force. South Korea: President Moon Jae-in will do whatever it takes, including literally embracing Kim, to keep negotiations going because he assesses that both South Korea's security and his own job security are on the line. Moon has been a longtime proponent of a diplomatic approach, in no small part because a military strike would plausibly result in North Korean counterstrikes against South Korea. This would put millions of lives at risk. Moon may have oversold North Korea's willingness to negotiate in good faith to delay such action, in fact. His domestic approval ratings got a massive boost since the "diplomatic breakthrough" was announced in March and he met Kim at the demilitarized zone for the first time. President Trump, if Moon fails to pull a rabbit out of a hat and get you and Kim to meet face to face, he will look played by Kim and/or abandoned by you, either of which will mean a blow to his political standing and make a US military strike on the Korean peninsula look more likely. Russia: Vladimir Putin has historically picked sides, and it's not ours, it's all Kim's. Putin has accused the US of provoking North Korea on more than one occasion. And President Trump, he's likely to blame you -- not the man with the illegal nukes -- if the negotiations do in fact die. But remember -- whichever way this goes, it's a win for Moscow. If you are unsuccessful in getting Kim to denuclearize, or if it looks like Kim stood you up, you help Putin achieve his goal of undermining US credibility. If talks progress and the North skirts a military strike, that would also skirt the risk of the US sending more troops to the region or replacing Kim with a pro-American leader. That's also a positive outcome because Putin doesn't want us anywhere closer to Moscow. Although Putin is sending his foreign minister to North Korea this week, he is keeping relatively quiet publicly because he knows this all works in his favor. China: Like Russia, China has historically urged diplomacy with North Korea. A US military strike would upset the regional status quo that they enjoy and could result in refugees spilling into China and more US troops in the region. President Trump, if there is a perception that you torpedoed negotiations, then President Xi Jinping will manipulate that narrative and use it to bring US allies like South Korea closer to him and further from you. So China will support negotiations on at least a slow boil, but they'll want something for it. We know that lifting US penalties against telecommunications company ZTE has been a core focus for Xi, and in exchange for using their patronage of Kim Jong Un to urge him to play ball, they'll want more. Quid pro quos are on the menu. Trade policy: Rough road ahead Mr. President, countries are reacting unanimously against your decision to launch an investigation into whether imports of vehicles "threaten to impair" US national security. They are likely to retaliate if this investigation results in penalties similar to the tariffs you imposed on steel and aluminum imports. This investigation does further isolate us from our allies who represent a significant amount of our automobile trade, including NAFTA partners Mexico and Canada (Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said the investigation was based on flimsy logic and was linked to your NAFTA renegotiation strategy), along with Japan, Germany and South Korea. South Korean officials already said they would "have to respond" to any US tariffs, and after the previous round of steel and aluminum tariffs, the EU almost immediately threatened retaliatory trade measures. If this proceeds, we can expect a similar reaction. Allies, including the EU and Japan, said the move would be against World Trade Organization rules, and a "rival power" -- China -- took your announcement as an opportunity to (hypocritically) urge respect for their multilateral trading system (China is not exactly a poster child for respecting the WTO or international rules). So we can expect our allies and our economic competitors to be aligned (and potentially coordinating) on a response to the investigation, including taking us to the WTO or, following our lead, using "national security" concerns to close their own borders to our exports. Taiwan: Increasingly dire straits China is ramping up its campaign against Taiwan. We assess that as President Xi feels even stronger at home, in the region, and on the global stage, he will use everything in his tool kit against Taiwan. As part of its international pressure campaign against Taiwan, China has steadily destroyed Taiwan's diplomatic relationships. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Last week, Burkina Faso became the latest country to sever diplomatic ties with Taiwan, which now has only 17 diplomatic relationships left. China is also leveraging its economic clout and pressuring companies like Gap Inc. and Delta Air Lines to avoid recognizing Taiwan as its own country or risk losing business in China. China knows that the United States is committed to Taiwan's defense, by law , so it will likely continue to undermine Taiwan's security and diplomatic standing and see how far they can push the envelope before provoking any kind of substantive response from you. Afghanistan: Threat assessment
(CNN) I did not arrive in America as a refugee or to join family already here. I owe the start to my life in this country to two things: my father's brilliant mind and a very special document. Daddy was a statistician renowned in his field of probability theory, and in 1975, Florida State University offered him a teaching position. We flew across the globe on Indian passports and gained entry into America with a visa called H-1, reserved for people such as my father who possessed distinctive skills. We later applied for permanent residency, my father went on to become a professor emeritus at FSU and in 2008, I proudly became a US citizen The H-1 visa was designed to attract smart people who were considered the best and the brightest of global talent to fill the gaps in the US workforce. I am a direct beneficiary of that program. Without it, my own trajectory would have been very different. In 1990, the visa was reinvented as H-1B, and it boomed alongside the rise of Silicon Valley. Most H-1Bs are awarded to technology workers, though other fields such as science and medicine also benefit. And these days, almost 70% of the visas are awarded to Indian nationals. Without the H-1B program, argue its supporters, innovation is sure to suffer and America stands to lose its competitive edge. Look at any number of start-ups, and you're sure to find talented folks who reached America on an H-1B. Among that elite group is Mike Krieger , one of the founders of Instagram. But in recent years, abuses and fraud in America's largest guest worker program have surfaced. And now with Donald Trump in the White House, H-1B is facing fresh scrutiny. In April, Trump signed a "Buy American and Hire American" executive order that is part of his ambitious plan to restore 25 million American jobs. The President blames H-1B visa holders for stealing US jobs, and his order takes aim at the program. The visas, he said, "should never, ever be used to replace Americans." The criticism fits neatly into prevailing anti-immigrant rhetoric, even though H-1Bs are not for immigrants. And to be clear, many H-1B opponents say they don't support building walls or taking other measures to keep foreigners out. I read Trump's harsh words and wondered: How could a visa responsible for my own family's success come under so much fire? When did a perfectly legitimate guest worker system become so controversial? Who wins? Who loses? Has it really become bad for America? Intrigued, I decided to learn more about the H-1B visa. My conversations led me to other Indian Americans, and some of their comments surprised me. I reached out to a congressman from Silicon Valley, a CEO of a tech company who refuses to hire H-1B workers, and a technology worker who lost a fulfilling job and is running for Congress to change the system. I even spoke with an H-1B worker from my native India whose story I found heartbreaking. I learned there were no simple answers to my questions. What I do know is the H-1B visa has become a document coveted by thousands around the globe -- and reviled by just as many in the United States. A losing lottery? To understand how the H-1B visa system works, I called one of the nation's foremost experts on the subject: Ronil Hira. Hira, an associate professor of public policy at Howard University, t estified last year before the Senate Judiciary Committee on the impact of H-1B workers. He began with his personal story, one that is not unlike mine. He was the son of immigrants who left India in the 1950s to seek a better life. His wife's family also arrived in the United States on the same H-1 visa program as my father. The idea behind H-1B is the same as it was when my father obtained his H-1. It's still employer-sponsored and temporary -- the H-1B is good for three years and is extendable for another three. After that, the holder has to return home unless the employer sponsors him or her for permanent residency -- better known as a green card. Each year, US Citizenship and Immigration Services issues 65,000 H-1B visas to applicants with bachelor's degrees for "specialty occupations." Another 20,000 are set aside for those with master's degrees or higher from a US university. JUST WATCHED H-1B visas by the numbers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH H-1B visas by the numbers 01:16 Those caps, mandated by Congress, were as high as 195,000 in the early 2000s, and many in the tech industry would like to see them rise again. "The single stupidest policy in the entire American political system was the limit on H-1B visas," Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google's parent company Alphabet, recently told an MIT audience. "A properly run company is really about having the best people." The demand for the visas remains high and the competition, intense. This year, on the morning of April 1, the first-come, first-served application process opened like the gates to a horse race. Four days later, it was over. The USCIS had received 199,000 visa petitions from employers -- way more than enough to meet the statutory caps. Because of the high number of applications, the visas are then allotted by lottery. That's where the trouble begins. If the intent is to get the highest-skilled workers to fill "specialty occupations," why is the government using an arbitrary method such as the lottery? Although everyone in the lottery is theoretically qualified, chances are some better-qualified applicants will lose out to those with less skill and experience. Another problem: Employers are supposed to seek a foreign worker only when they cannot find a qualified American for the job. But that's not how it works, Hira tells me. Large firms unfairly snag a chunk of H-1B visas by flooding the application pool. They include familiar names such as Google, Microsoft and Apple, but the biggest recipients are outsourcing companies like Cognizant and Accenture and Indian giants Infosys and Tata Consultancy Services, the two top recipients of H-1B visas. Employers must make a good-faith effort to recruit an American worker for a position before seeking an H-1B visa, but they don't have to document their efforts. "The actual rules don't require companies to look for American workers and specialized skills," Hira says. "The definitions have gotten loose. Everything in the system is written in favor of the employers." The big companies have figured out how to play the visa game and take advantage of loopholes, Hira says. And the smaller companies, the ones that are more in need of specialized labor, are often out of luck. The main reason American companies hire H-1B workers through outsourcing firms, Hira says, is to save money. A whole lot of it. Employers are suppopesed to pay H-1B workers a "prevailing wage" based on the job and location. But Hira's research found that employers were recruiting H-1B labor at entry-level wages, not the average wage for specific jobs. Infosys or Tata can save a company up to $45,000 per worker every year, according to Hira's analysis. In 2013, for instance, Infosys snared almost 7,000 H-1B visas. The median wage it paid was $70,882, about $20,000 lower than a computer systems analyst in Rosemead, California. That's the home of Southern California Edison, a utility that replaced more than 300 American IT workers with H-1B workers employed by Infosys. Hira cites a compensation study that showed Edison IT specialists were earning an average annual base pay of $110,446. The lower salaries at Infosys and other outsourcing firms are still attractive to thousands of tech workers in India, who average only $6,000 a year and clamor for an opportunity to work in the United States. Neeraj Gupta came from India to America as a graduate student and then was hired on an H-1B by a Silicon Valley firm, which later sponsored his green card. Gupta went on to found his own tech company, which was ultimately acquired by an Indian outsourcing firm. In 2009, after witnessing the offshoring of jobs, Gupta began looking into solutions that would create American jobs in technology services. "With respect to President Trump, there is truth in what he is saying," Gupta tells me. "The premise of the visa is accurate. The challenge is how it has been hijacked by the IT outsourcing industry." Hira, too, believes the good intent of H-1B has been overrun by corporations that cannot see beyond their profit margins. He was in favor of H-1B, he told the Senate committee last year. But it was imperative to fix a broken system. "High-skilled immigration has directly benefited my family enormously," Hira told lawmakers. Then, he issued this warning: "Thousands of American jobs will be offshored. Tens of thousands of American workers will have their wages depressed. And thousands of American students will be denied opportunities. That's one lottery American workers and students are guaranteed to lose." Laid off and forced to train his replacement Craig Diangelo lost big to H-1B. At first, he kept quiet, in line with an agreement he signed to not disparage his employer. But he was so incensed by the injustice at his workplace he could not stay silent. Not only did Diangelo, 65, lose his job to a less-skilled, lower-paid foreign worker, but he was forced to train his replacement or face losing his severance. Craig Diangelo lost his job at Northeast Utilities and had to train his replacement, an H-1B worker. He'd worked in information technology all his life, but the sudden job loss dimmed his future considerably. So much so, that Diangelo is now running for office. Frustrated by the inaction of lawmakers to reform America's guest worker program, Diangelo is running as a Republican to unseat Democrat Elizabeth Esty in Connecticut's 5th Congressional District. "I would like the law to change," Diangelo says. "You cannot bring over an H-1B worker to replace an American." Diangelo had always wanted to be a schoolteacher, but after finishing his degree in education in the mid-1970s he couldn't find a job. Instead he went to work for Travelers Insurance Cos. in Hartford, Connecticut. He began as a COBOL programmer, and his career evolved over the decades as the tech industry changed. In his last full-time position at Northeast Utilities in Berlin, Connecticut, Diangelo helped support the company's storage architecture. He made $130,000 a year. "It was a wonderful job," he tells me. "It paid me well. I worked with a great group of people." That began unraveling when a merger with a smaller company led to changes in management. In October 2013, the new managers gathered the 220 employees in Diangelo's unit and bluntly announced that their jobs were going to Infosys and Tata Consultancy Services. "Why were we not given the first rights to re-apply for our jobs?" Diangelo says. "Why was I not given the opportunity to go to Infosys and say: 'I would like to apply for this position?' " To make matters worse, Diangelo was told he would have to engage in "knowledge transfer" and train his Indian replacement. "I was in complete disbelief," he says. "I gave my soul to this company. They had been good to me. It didn't make any sense." He was told his last day would be in December, but that was extended to March and then to May when his employers realized the replacement workers were not ready. They were not high-skilled employees filling a job for which no Americans were available, as was the intent of H-1B. "They were lower-skilled workers," Diangelo says. "We had to train them from scratch. My replacement was making half of what I was making. And he had no benefits." I'd met Infosys employees when I visited the company's shiny Googlesque campus in Bangalore, India, several years ago. They told me how IT jobs had opened up opportunities, changed their lives. For the first time in generations, their families aspired to so much more in life. Tech companies are a point of pride in my homeland. The industry is the largest private sector employer in India and constitutes about 10% of the gross domestic product. Technology is a big reason why India arrived as a major player on the global stage. I knew there was a mad rush to apply for H-1B visas at Infosys and other outsourcing firms. But what I did not realize is that these eager Indians were putting Americans out of work. From Diangelo, I was hearing the ugly side of Indian tech. Northeast Utilities employees put up US flags in cubicles after realizing they would lose their jobs to H-1B workers. I contacted Infosys and Tata for comment. Tata did not respond. An Infosys spokesman told me the company was not granting any interviews regarding H-1B visas. He did, however, send me this statement: "We continue to invest in the local communities in which we operate, including hiring local American top talent, bringing education and training to our clients to shrink the skills gap in the US, and working with policymakers to foster innovation within states and across the country. It is our endeavor to help clients leverage the best US talent together with the best global talent." Diangelo says he found it humiliating, depressing even, that he had to stay on -- with his Infosys replacement -- at a job he knew would soon vanish for him. But he and his colleagues were older workers close to the top of their salary grades. He knew it would be hard to find employment elsewhere. He had few options. Diangelo trained his replacement in Connecticut as well as 11 other workers in India. The company, he says, recorded his webinars, and he guesses his training sessions have been used many times since his departure. This is how it sometimes works: Indian H-1B workers are brought in to replace workers here in America, but subsequently many of the jobs are moved offshore to India. Diangelo and his colleagues on the second floor of the Northeast Utilities building put up small US flags on their cubicles. As each completed a last day at work, a flag came down. Diangelo was the last. When he returned after a weekend to turn in his company badge, only his flag remained. Then, that, too, was gone. I asked for an interview with a manager at Northeast Utilities, now called Eversource Energy, and was sent a statement via e-mail: "Three years ago we made strategic changes to our IT department to support the merger of two companies and keep pace with changing technologies to better serve our customers," the statement read. "As an electric and gas delivery business, we did not have the internal capabilities to efficiently meet the growing technology needs of the larger, combined company." Eversource, said the statement, uses Infosys and Tata to perform some of its IT functions, and that employees such as Diangelo who were affected were offered comprehensive severance packages, career transition and training services and extended health care coverage. This has nothing to do with immigration. We have a bill out there that allows foreign workers to take American jobs. Craig Diangelo Eversource is hardly the only US entity that has been accused of laying off Americans in favor of cheaper Indian labor. Employees at the University of California, San Francisco, had to train their replacements from an outsourcing firm. So did technology workers at Walt Disney World, New York Life, Toys R Us and Southern California Edison. And these are just the cases that have surfaced publicly because of lawsuits and employees such as Diangelo who risked losing their severance by speaking out. Diangelo says he holds nothing against his replacement worker from Infosys, nothing against immigrants. He blames the system that allows this to happen. This year, he watched as the H-1B application date of April 1 approached. He had counted on Trump to put a moratorium on the visas. But now, he says, 85,000 more foreign workers will arrive in the United States in the coming months. "That means another 85,000 Americans will lose their jobs," he says. "Every time I talk to my senators and congressmen, they say we need a comprehensive immigration bill," he says. "But these are two separate things. This has nothing to do with immigration. We have a bill out there that allows foreign workers to take American jobs." "The government needs to make changes to the H-1B program," he says. "Even the lawmakers who made this law say it has been hijacked." Diangelo is referring to Bruce Morrison, a former Connecticut congressman who sponsored legislation creating the H-1B visa system but is now a vocal critic. Several bills that aim to reform H-1B have been introduced in both the House and Senate this year. One of the co-sponsors of a House bill is Rep. Ro Khanna, an Indian-American from California's 17th Congressional District in the south San Francisco Bay Area and the heart of Silicon Valley. Again, I thought of my own family as I read Khanna's bio. He was born in Philadelphia to parents who immigrated in the 1970s from India. Because of his background and because he represents so many who work in the tech industry, Khanna has taken heat for his stance on H-1B. Please note: Ro Khanna, an Indian American politician funded heavily by NRIs, is championing restrictions on H1B: https://t.co/glRDDlYtLG — Rajiv Malhotra (@RajivMessage) March 3, 2017 Khanna tells me his Silicon Valley voters understand the need for reform. He says that as the son of immigrants, he understands the contributions of people who come from other lands. But their contributions cannot come at the expense of American workers. "We need change so you don't have underpaid foreigners taking away American jobs," he says. "This bill is pro-immigrant and pro-American worker." At the end of my conversation with Diangelo, he tells me the Infosys H-1B employee he trained wanted to be his friend. "I couldn't allow myself to do that. I did not have hard feelings against him. But he was taking my job." Diangelo took early retirement; he did not want to transition into a new career so late in life and eventually found contract work in IT. Many of his co-workers, he says, are still unemployed. "We don't go out as much or give to charities," he says of himself and his former colleagues. "It has a downward spiral effect. A long-lasting one. It affects the morale of people." Every time he pumps gas at his local Costco, he looks up at the Eversource compound on a hill and thinks: My job is still there. Employees on the Bangalore, India, campus of Infosys, a tech giant that is one of the top recipients of H-1B visas. Growing demand On a recent morning, I visit Monty Hamilton, CEO of Rural Sourcing Inc., a technology outsourcing company based in Atlanta. There are no H-1B workers here. It goes against the mission of the company, Hamilton tells me. Hamilton grew up in a two-stoplight town in Mississippi. When he chose vocation over location, he was forced to chase his dreams in a big city. He began his career with Accenture, another big recipient of H-1B visas, before taking the reins at Rural Sourcing in 2008. The company's goal was to find smart IT employees, not in foreign countries but in secondary US cities outside Silicon Valley: Albuquerque, New Mexico; Mobile, Alabama; Augusta, Georgia. "We do need to import some talent, but we need to do a better job in training the US workforce to get into this field that is changing so fast," he says. Though he won't hire H-1B workers, Hamilton says it's folly to think the visas can be done away with altogether. His fifth-floor office overlooks the campus of Georgia Tech. He tells me that all the foreign students who are about to graduate will be forced to go home unless they find employer-sponsored H-1B or other visas. "Why in the hell would we allow that?" Hamilton says. America has 500,000 tech jobs open today, he tells me. And only 43,000 students who graduated with computer science degrees last year, he says, citing Code.org. "How long does it take to fill a tech job? An average of 65 days. That tells me there is a shortage," Hamilton says. Whether or not there truly is a shortage is the subject of much debate, I discovered. It often depends on the interpretation of statistics. I read a petition that entrepreneurs including Bill Gates, Jeff Bezos and Tim Cook co-signed with educators, nonprofits and governors from both political parties urging increased computer science education. "There are currently over 500,000 open computing jobs, in every sector, from manufacturing to banking, from agriculture to healthcare, but only 50,000 computer science graduates a year," the letter said. But I also read an Economic Policy Institute analysis that found American colleges graduate 50% more students in engineering and computer and information science than are hired in those fields each year. Shortage or not, the Bureau of Labor Statistics predicted the number of technology jobs will rise from 3.9 million in 2014 to about 4.4 million in 2024. Part of the demand for tech jobs is due to the growing "Internet of things," including cloud and mobile computing. "Technology is changing fast," Hamilton says. "We do need to import some talent, but we also need to do a better job in training the US workforce." I leave Hamilton's office and come across a group of young Indian engineering students enrolled at Georgia Tech. They tell me they want nothing more than to stay here for a job. If they don't get one right away, they will go home and try to return with an H-1B visa. They talk about it as though it were a coveted prize, a ticket to success. JUST WATCHED Indian official says H-1B visas bolster jobs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Indian official says H-1B visas bolster jobs 01:31 'Techsploitation' For days, I ponder something Craig Diangelo told me. He realized his Indian H-1B replacement was also in a difficult position -- he had no idea he was going to America to take someone else's job. H-1B workers brought over by outsourcing firms often don't know the circumstances they are about to face. They, too, are part of an abusive system, say H-1B critics. The exploitation of Indian H-1B workers essentially amounts to indentured servitude, according to the Center for Investigative Reporting, which exposed what one worker called "an ecosystem of fear." In a class-action lawsuit filed in California, H-1B workers described staffing agencies known as "body shops" that enticed workers to the United States and filed for their H-1B visas. Instead, when they arrived, the workers were huddled together in cramped "guest houses" and paid no wages until they were placed with a technology firm. H-1B workers described having to pay the staffing agencies, pay for travel to jobs in other states and falling into debt before they even earned a penny. Because H-1B visas are sponsored by companies, the employees are beholden to them. They risk losing their jobs and being sent back to India if they complain too loudly. "It's human trafficking. They are being bought and sold," says Jack "Jay" Palmer, a former Infosys employee who brought a whistleblower lawsuit against the technology giant in 2012 alleging visa fraud. Palmer accused Infosys of illegally using business visitor visas known as B-1 to fill positions in the United States. The B-1 visas are easier to obtain and have lower fees than H-1Bs and are intended for short stays to attend meetings and training sessions. The lawsuit led to a federal investigation, and Infosys eventually agreed to a $34 million civil settlement with the Justice Department. I catch Palmer on the phone as he's driving to the Atlanta airport for a flight to Washington. He says he's meeting with Sen. Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican and a sponsor of the Senate H-1B reform bill. "I believe in the American dream. I have nothing against H-1B and green cards," Palmer says. "I just want to see the law enforced." A few hours later, I get a call from an Indian man whom Palmer has been helping. He tells me he is from Hyderabad, another technology hub in India, and was sponsored for an H-1B visa by Tata Consultancy Services. He fears repercussions at his job in New York and speaks with me only after I agree to withhold his identity. He says he worked in India for a decade before he came to America on an H-1B and was "body-shopped." He was placed in a job with a published salary of $45 an hour, but after the body shoppers and the outsourcing companies take their share, he only makes about $29. The man is 45 and has a wife and two children -- 8 and 12. His expenses amount to about $5,000 a month, about $1,000 more than what he takes home. He has fallen into debt and no longer has the ability to climb out of it. "We cannot save any money," he says. "I have $20,000 in credit card debt, and I owe $15,000 for my car." "Why don't you go back home to India?" I ask him. "I do not even have money to buy tickets," he says. He says he feels lucky, though. At least he is not in a "guest house" waiting for work. Life, he says, goes on in limbo. He says he was promised sponsorship for a green card but was asked to pay a $25,000 fee he couldn't afford. I spoke with another Indian H-1B worker in Atlanta who has applied for a green card, but the backlog is so great for Indian citizens that it can take up to 10 years or more. Until then, H-1B workers remain tethered to their employers. "My dream was to come to America, but I don't want to stay here with this kind of life," the man in New York says. "But I have no choice. I replaced American workers, but I am a victim, too." The man in New York is not alone. There are thousands of workers like him, Palmer tells me. Palmer and other H-1B reformers want accountability. They say US companies must be required to document their searches to fill positions with American workers. Employers must pay prevailing wages and be prevented from subcontracting or outsourcing H-1B jobs. Reform advocates are pushing for a system of government enforcement and oversight of the H-1B regulations, not one that is reliant on whistleblowers to expose abuse. Technology is here to stay. And it is changing at warp speed. The demand for smart talent is not going away. That's why even the biggest critics of H-1B are the most ardent backers of reform, not elimination. What I hear them saying is the system ought to work the way it used to, when my father obtained an H-1 visa. He was hired for a job he was uniquely qualified for, and he was compensated with a decent wage. No one wants to see Americans lose their jobs unfairly, and if my father were still alive, I know he'd be troubled by what I learned about the current H-1B program. I also know he would be heartened to see that some of the most ardent backers of visa reform are Indian Americans. After all, we are the ones who have most reaped the rewards of H-1B.
I’m currently sitting at my desk, very dehydrated. If you’re thinking, why don’t you just go get a glass of water? Well, that’s because I’m fasting. And no, not even water. What else is on my mind is that sometime during what Muslims like to call “The Holy Month”, I will eventually bleed because, well, I’m a woman. My thoughts about my period this month aren’t focused on how crappy I may feel the first day and how many desserts I’ll get to binge on because I deserve it. Instead I’m thinking about my relationship with my period during Ramadan. In Ramadan, there are boxes you have to tick in order to fast. If you are on your period you do not have to fast because your body is already going through so much, never mind having to crave a chocolate doughnut you are banned from eating (in the name of understanding how a large portion of the world lives, of course). When my period arrives, I will be able to eat at times other members of my family will not. I will not hide this from my immediate family - including the men - but eating in front of them will make it apparent I am on my period. And if I was invited to an iftar party (a dinner party where you break your fast) I would not eat in front of everyone there before the sun goes down for two reasons: 1) I don’t want to tease people with sugar all over my lips and 2) I would feel slightly strange about everyone knowing I was on my period. Why does my granddad need to know that? Personally, I am open about talking about periods to anyone who wants to discuss my blood. However, my mother on the other hand feels awkward about talking about it to anyone, so she herself will choose to put on the front that she is always fasting. But for many Muslim women, awkwardness does not even begin to cover how they feel about eating in front of others during Ramadan. Many feel as though they have to pretend they are fasting by eating in secret or not eating at all. This may be either because they have been period shamed in the past (something that women are talking about on Twitter) and so the subject feels too taboo to talk about or simply because they do not want to have to share information about their monthly cycle with others. It is a personal issue, which they shouldn’t have to discuss unless they choose to. Who really wants to walk into a crowded room and announce they’re on their period?
(CNN) Three decades ago, Ireland was a very different place. Divorce was illegal, as was same-sex marriage. Abortion, already illegal in practice, was constitutionally banned in a 1983 referendum -- known as the Eighth Amendment. On Saturday Ireland emphatically voted to repeal that constitutional amendment in a referendum, paving the way for legalized abortion. "If you look at 1983, when the anti-abortion clause was put into the constitution, to now, the change is just extraordinary," said Irish Times columnist Fintan O'Toole. He said the diminishing influence of the Catholic church, along with the urbanization of a rural society, improved access to higher education, and an increasingly vocal women's movement, had all contributed to a shift in perceptions. Saturday's referendum is the latest in a series of recent liberalizations in Ireland, which last year elected its first gay and biracial Prime Minister, or Taoiseach, Leo Varadkar. "Thirty years ago if you had said there was any possibility the prime minister would be gay or from a biracial background, people probably would have found that just impossible to imagine," O'Toole said. "And now it's not just possible to imagine, it's almost uninteresting, it's just taken for granted." Here's a look at some of Ireland's legislation in recent years: 2018: Referendum paves way for legalized abortion Yes voters celebrate after Ireland votes to repeal the 8th Amendment, paving the way for legalized abortion. Saturday's referendum, in which 66.4% of voters said yes to repealing the Eighth Amendment to the constitution, opens the doors to legislation allowing abortion up to 12 weeks gestation -- and later in cases in which there is a risk to the mother's life or the fetus is not expected to survive. Only one county voted no in the referendum -- the rural and religiously conservative Donegal in northwest Ireland. Up until now abortion has been illegal in Ireland -- except when there's a "real and substantial risk" to the mother's life -- with women caught breaking the law facing up to 14 years in jail. 2015: Same-sex marriage legalized Gay couple Michael Barron and Jamie Nanci kiss during the referendum vote on same-sex marriage in 2015. The measure was legalized on November 16 that year. 1996: Divorce legalized Irish women push strollers under a government-sponsored poster in Dublin, 1995. In 1995 a referendum on legalizing divorce was passed -- just. The final tally showed 50.3% were in favor of ending Ireland's 58-year-old ban on divorce, with 49.7% opposed to the change. The measure was signed into law on June 17, 1996. 1993: Homosexual acts decriminalized Almost two decades after homosexual acts were decriminalised in Ireland, supporters celebrate the same-sex marriage referendum in Dublin. Ireland has seen a huge change in LGBT rights. As recently as 1992, marchers in a gay pride parade in Cork reportedly wore masks so as not to embarrass family members. The following year, consensual homosexual acts between adults were decriminalized. Today, same-sex marriage is legal, and the country's leader is openly gay. 1979: Contraceptives legalized Contraception was legalized in 1979, but with tight restrictions. Doctors needed to write prescriptions after being "satisfied that the person was seeking the contraceptives for bona fide family planning purposes," according to the Irish Family Planning Association. However the reality was quite different, as O'Toole recounts. "I was a student in the 1970s and we were distributing condoms through the student union at the university," he said. "In one case, police seized a condom-dispensing machine at the university. So all of that kind of stuff was going on. The law didn't really change behavior that much," O'Toole added. "What you're seeing now is this culmination of a very long divergence between actual behavior, and the law," said O'Toole.
Warning: Spoilers for “Avengers: Infinity War” below! “Deadpool 2” and “Solo” may be new at the movie theater, but people still can’t stop talking about “Avengers: Infinity War,” which came out on April 27. Some Marvel fans were upset by the way Chris Pratt’s character, Star-Lord, let his emotions get the best of him in a critical moment during the battle against the villain Thanos. During a pivotal scene, Iron Man, Dr. Strange, Spider-Man and the Guardians of the Galaxy are holding Thanos in a trance as they try to wrestle his infinity gauntlet away from him. The infinity gauntlet, if adorned with all six infinity stones, would make Thanos essentially a god. Just as they nearly have it, Star-Lord learns that Gamora, the woman he loves, has been killed by Thanos. In a rage, Star-Lord starts punching Thanos, which releases the villain from his trance and allows him to reclaim the gauntlet. Some fans have given Star-Lord a tough time on social media.
(CNN) Tom Arnold, actor and ex-husband of Roseanne Barr, said Wednesday he was not surprised by the cancellation of ABC's hit sitcom "Roseanne" after the show's star went on a racist Twitter rant. "I had a feeling this was going to happen when I first heard it was coming back," Arnold told CNN's Anderson Cooper on "AC360." Arnold, a former writer on the original "Roseanne" suggested that Barr's support of President Donald Trump's conspiracy theories played a part in her downfall. "When I read her social media in the very beginning, and I saw how she was so into the conspiracy stuff with Donald Trump and so how far gone she was, and the 'pizzagate' and Hillary is a pedophile and Obama wasn't born here, she was, you know, a 'birther,' and how crazy that was -- I just knew that this would not end well," Arnold said. In one of the tweets that sparked outrage, she wrote, "Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj." Read More
(CNN) Though "This Is Us" creator Dan Fogelman claims to have not yet written a word of Season 3, he and the show's writing team are deep into planning the story arcs and surprises in store. Moments before Fogelman and the bulk of the show's cast walked on stage for a panel held on Tuesday for the soon-to-be Emmy-voting members of the TV Academy, he had been filling them in on some of the twists ahead for the Pearson family. "We get all the information that we want as a cast; he gives it to us," boasted actor Justin Hartley, who plays Kevin on the family drama. "But it's also [Fogelman] can't contain himself." It's true -- Fogelman at times seemed eager to spill more secrets than he thought he should during the hour-long conversation, but his cast was there to make sure he didn't overshare. Still, the producer did reveal a bit about what's ahead for the family whose decades-spanning story still seems to have many chapters left to tell. Beth will have a 'showcase' episode Fans of Beth Pearson, rejoice. Randall Pearson's beloved and scene-stealing wife, played by Susan Kelechi Watson, will have her moment in the sun next season with an episode focusing on her backstory. "She's going to get a showcase, and it's going to be f---ing amazing," Fogelman said. Watson said preliminary plans are for the episode to explore Beth's childhood with her three sisters and her big family living inside a small house. ...and Toby will too Not only will the upcoming season explore Toby's battle with depression, but viewers will learn more about his backstory as well. Chris Sullivan joked: "Is it the same episode? We get to do a bank robbery or something -- me and Beth?" Kevin will be making his father proud In addition to a new love interest -- with Beth's cousin -- Kevin will go on a personal journey this season that will see the character making good on the promise he made to his dead father last season in a powerful scene, said Fogelman. "You feel it in that performance, he's going to find a way to make his father proud and I think you're going to see a lot of that this season," he said. As for Kevin's sobriety, Hartley said he's "hopeful" his character can stay on a positive path. "I think he has the tools to do that going forward and I think he knows how to use the tools." The identity of 'her' plays into the show's 'end game' At the end of Season 2, "This Is Us" sent viewers into a tailspin with a monster tease involving Randall and his oldest daughter Tess. In a scene taking place at least a decade in the future, Randall told his grown daughter cryptically and with an air of sadness that it was, "time to go see her." "I'm not ready," she told him. "Me neither," he said. In true "This Is Us" fashion, the identity of the person of which they were speaking was not made clear, but it certainly continues to be a point of speculation. Sterling K. Brown, who appeared briefly via Skype as he was in New York City at the premiere of his film "Hotel Artemis," offered this: "It sort of leads toward the end game of the show as a whole -- not the season, per se -- but the show as a whole." "And who you think the 'her' is, is probably not who it actually is," he said. "In typical Fogelman style, it will throw you a bit of a curve. But it's something you'll see at the end of the show." Chris Sullivan ,Chrissy Metz, Susan Kelechi Watson, Justin Hartley, Mandy Moore, Milo Ventimiglia attend 20th Century Fox Television And NBC's "This Is Us" FYC Screening And Panel at The Theatre at Ace Hotel on May 29, 2018 in Los Angeles, California. Fogelman added that the time period teased in that scene will be explored to its full potential. "I think people are going to be surprised by how we use that time [period]. It's more than just [about] that one question," he said. "If you jump cut from now to a family 15 years from now, things would have changed...there's a lot more questions and answers than just that one." Over the course of the series, Fogelman said they plan on visiting other past and future timelines as well. Asked if she would ever be subjected to old-age makeup for the sake of her character, Watson joked, "I prefer old age makeup to death." Creator Dan Fogelman already knows the end game of the whole series For a show that deals with multiple timelines, storylines and child actors, nothing is more important than a solid plan. And Fogelman admitted that the writer's are "pretty far out" in the long-term planning process. "Our writers and I ... know where it ends. We have a path for each season of the show," he said. "We've always had a plan. We didn't want to get stuck." In fact, he said, "I've actually already shot pieces of the final scene of the series." Not that the end is coming any time soon. "This Is Us," which was renewed through Season 3 in 2017, remains one of TV's top-rated programs. Fogelman warned, however, "despite any success it may or may not have, I don't think this show will ever overstay its welcome." "We have a story to tell and we want to do this the right way," he said.
(CNN) Australian feminist Germaine Greer has sparked controversy by calling for the punishment for rape to be reduced and saying that most rapes are just bad sex. Speaking at the Hay literary festival in the UK, she said that society should not see rape as a "spectacularly violent crime," suggesting that offenders should be sentenced to 200 hours' community service and perhaps an "r" tattoo on the rapist's hand, arm or cheek. "Most rapes don't involve any injury whatsoever. We are told it's one of the most violent crimes in the world -- bull. Most rape is just lazy, just careless, just insensitive," she said, according to British press reports "Every time a man rolls over on his exhausted wife and insists on enjoying his conjugal right, he is raping her. It will never end up in a court of law," she added. "It's an awful thing to be raped but to attempt to bring the person who raped you to justice and getting nowhere, getting discredited, getting humiliated, that's a tragedy." - @TheFemaleGreer #HayFestival2018 — Hay Festival (@hayfestival) May 30, 2018 Greer, 79, academic and author of the 1970 landmark feminist work "The Female Eunuch," was speaking at the festival to publicize her new book, which is due out in Australia in September. Read More
Daymond John always wanted to be an entrepreneur. "As a young kid growing up, I was always trying to sell something," John told CNNMoney. "Whether it was pencils in school ... Super Soakers on the beach. I was always selling something." At the age of 17, John decided to buy wrecked cars, rebuild them and sell the restored vehicles. After that, he started a commuter van line. But he wasn't passionate about either venture, and they fizzled out. When he was 20, he decided to turn his love of hip hop and fashion into the business that would help make him famous — the hip hop apparel company Fubu. Fubu had a few false starts. John recalled opening and closing the business three times between 1989 and 1992 because he lost money. But his love of the company always drew him back in. "People would say, 'Hey, I remember you. I bought a shirt from you last year ... Where can I find it again?' And I was happy to hear that," John said. In 1992, when Fubu was officially in business. John worked out of his childhood home in Queens, making hats and T-shirts with his mother and business partners. Related: Before she became a CEO, Sarah Robb O'Hagan was fired and laid off While John was trying to get Fubu off the ground, he worked at Red Lobster and continued to drive the commuter van. "On the weekends I would take the seats out of that 15-passenger van, pack it full of Fubu and go down to a festival and sell Fubu, and then sleep at night in the van, to then go to another festival," John said. He and his partners marketed their products to cool kids in their neighborhood. And then they decided to try to get rapper LL Cool J to wear Fubu. "I would camp outside his house," John said. "We need[ed] a spokesperson, a face," he said. Just a few years after Fubu launched, the rapper agreed to be photographed in Fubu, and everything changed. "He took that one picture for us, and after we put that in a small magazine, we got calls from everywhere," John said. "He would then go on to be our spokesperson and take us to a place that we never thought we could go." LL Cool J became the brand's spokesperson, and Fubu became a phenomenon. Along came 'Shark Tank' "I was technically retired when 'Shark Tank' came around," John said. But, he said, "anytime that somebody wants to work with me is a perfect time for me." John has been on the CNBC reality investing show since it began in 2009. The show made him a "brand," he said. People stopped thinking of him as the Fubu guy and started to see him as a versatile businessman. The show also made him a role model, he said. "People have grown up on it and I'm part of a cast of people who hopefully influence the next generation," he said. Even if it's a generation he doesn't always understand. "I see kids coming up to me with these big old bushy beards," he said. "They may be 25, but they don't look 25. Kids these days look like they're 40, right? And they're going, 'I grew up on "Shark Tank."' And I'm like, 'This lumberjack grew up on "Shark Tank"? This guy's like 40 years old.'" Related: She was too short to play Goofy. Then she invented Spanx. Now she's a billionaire "Shark Tank" opened doors for John. In 2015, President Barack Obama appointed him one of nine Presidential Ambassadors of Global Entrepreneurship. "I got to travel the world with President Obama. I don't think that would've necessarily happened" without the show, John said. And, of course, the show has given him new companies to invest in, like Bombas socks and the novelty sunglasses maker Sun-Staches. "Shark Tank" also taught John some lessons. "The best advice I've ever gotten is never do a deal with Kevin O'Leary," from 'Shark Tank,' he joked. "The second-best advice I've ever gotten is money is a great servant, but a horrible master." 'Failure is a necessary process' Along the way, John said he had "2,000 moments of self-doubt." His Fubu partners gave him strength when he wanted to quit, and he did the same for them. And even though he lost large sums of money along the way, he doesn't really feel that he's taken any risks. "There's nothing that I regret," he said. The only risk he can imagine would be "being too ignorant to change with the times." John sees his earlier sacrifices and failures as tools he used later. "Most people, when they run across these pains or these challenges, then they don't know how to cope with them," he said. "I knew how to cope with them." "Failure," he said, "is a necessary process."
(CNN) After competing in "The Biggest Loser," many of the reality-show contestants have reluctantly regained the weight they sought to lose through extreme dieting and exercise. "The truth is, I kind of spiraled," Ali Vincent, the first woman to win the competition, told Oprah last year. "I got home and I was like, 'What do I do?' "I'm supposed to be strong. I'm supposed to know how to do this." But some contestants discovered for themselves the key to keeping their weight down long after the cameras turned off, according to a study published Monday. Six years after appearing on the show, a group of 14 contestants had kept off a median 13% of their original body weight. The researchers split the group in two -- the "maintainers," who had kept a substantial amount of the weight off, and the "regainers," who did not -- and looked at what set them apart. "Did they cut more calories from their diet ... or did they become more physically active?" asked study author Kevin Hall , a senior investigator with the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. Hall had been "puzzled by how quickly the contestants were losing weight." So he contacted the show's physician and began studying the season eight contestants. Early on, Hall observed that weight loss was better predicted by food intake, not physical activity alone. But in the long term, the opposite was true. "You have to be very physically active in order to keep the weight off," Hall said. The "maintainers," who kept off about 25% of their preshow weight on average, increased their physical activity by roughly 160% from before the competition. Those who regained the weight increased their activity only 34%. They were 1.1% heavier on average than their original weight. The researchers couldn't find any major differences between the food intake of both groups; both cut their calories by about the same amount. "While we know that the most important aspect of helping one lose weight is the dietary intake, that is pretty much reversed when it comes to weight loss maintenance," said Dr. Jennifer Kraschnewski , associate professor of medicine and public health sciences at the Penn State College of Medicine. She was not involved in the study. Hall's findings echo previous studies that promote more exercise for long-term weight loss maintenance. However, experts caution that doesn't mean people can neglect their diets in the long run, either. To maintain the weight loss, Hall's team estimated that contestants would need to engage in 80 minutes of moderate activity or 35 minutes of vigorous activity each day beyond what they were doing at baseline. The researchers didn't observe the contestants working out directly. They used tools like traceable water molecules to figure out how much energy was expended -- the "gold standard" measurements in this type of research, Kraschnewski said. Many larger studies have instead asked people to self-report how much they exercised, which can be riddled with errors. This method, however, was not able to tell how much of the physical activity was due to normal daily activities -- like cleaning the house or walking the dog -- versus following a workout plan, Hall said. Part of the reason the contestants' weight rebounded was because of "metabolic slowing," Hall said. As contestants lost weight during the competition, their bodies burned fewer calories than expected. "This can make it more difficult to lose weight and is another hurdle to overcome," Kraschnewski said. After going on a very low-calorie diet, "the body's mechanisms kick in to preserve body mass at all costs." Six years later, however, the contestants' resting metabolisms still hadn't sped back up, Hall showed in a study last year. This is a stark difference from people who have had gastric bypass surgery for weight loss, whose metabolisms may speed back up in a year's time, Kraschnewski said. Researchers are trying to figure out why this is -- and it may have something to do with the intricate connections between the gut, brain and hormones that regulate hunger, Kraschnewski added. For Hall, metabolic changes are just one part of the puzzle. Genetics may also play a role, as well as social factors that can make it hard for some people to incorporate so much exercise in their daily lives. "To do that requires a huge investment of time and energy," he said. "The bar is set very high for those folks to be able to maintain the weight loss without surgery or drugs." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Hall added that it's not necessarily those who were most physically active during the competition who kept it up six years later. "You can't really reproduce the expectation that those individuals must have had on the show to lose weight -- the pressure," Kraschnewski said. "The take-home point here is that obesity really is a disease," she said. "It's not something that you can treat once and will cure it. It's something that has to be continually addressed in one's life."
OTTAWA — The pace of economic growth in Canada slowed in the first quarter of this year to its lowest rate in nearly two years as housing investment pulled back amid new mortgage stress test rules and a cooling housing market. Statistics Canada said Thursday the economy grew at an annualized pace of 1.3 per cent for the first three months of the year. That compared with an annual pace of 1.7 per cent in the final three months of 2017. Economists had expected growth to come in at an annualized rate of 1.8 per cent for the first quarter of 2018, according to Thomson Reuters Eikon. Watch: Housing slowdown would hit Canadian jobs hard (story continues below) The rate of growth for real gross domestic product in the first quarter was the slowest pace since the economy contracted in the second quarter of 2016 due to forest fires that destroyed parts of Fort McMurray, Alta., and forced the shutdown of several oilsands operations in the region. In the most recent quarter, investment in housing fell 1.9 per cent, the largest decline since the first quarter of 2009, due to a drop in ownership transfer costs as the pace of home sales slowed at the start of the year. Meanwhile, household spending increased 0.3 per cent, the slowest pace since the first quarter of 2015, while household spending on services increased 0.5 per cent and spending on goods was unchanged. Growth in export volumes slowed to 0.4 per cent compared with one per cent in the fourth quarter of 2017. The gains were mainly contributed by crude oil and bitumen and the export of services. Imports rose 1.2 per cent in the quarter. Business investment in machinery and equipment rose 4.2 per cent, while intellectual property products rose 3.3 per cent. Looking back at 2017, Statistics Canada revised its real GDP numbers upward for the second and third quarters. For the second quarter of 2017, the estimate for the annualized growth rate was increased to 4.6 per cent compared with a March estimate of 4.4 per cent, while the estimate for the third quarter was increased to 1.7 per cent from 1.5 per cent. The latest reading on the economy follows the Bank of Canada's decision to keep its key interest rate on hold. Also on HuffPost:
(CNN) The Mediterranean diet is well-known for its positive effects on cardiovascular and metabolic health. But according to new data from the World Health Organization, childhood obesity rates in the Mediterranean region are among the highest in the world. The new WHO report , presented Wednesday at the European Congress on Obesity in Vienna, indicated that of 34 countries in the European region, the countries of Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Malta, San Marino and Spain had the highest rates of childhood obesity. In these countries, approximately one in five boys was obese (18% to 21% of boys). Rates of obesity among girls were only slightly lower. Childhood obesity is more prevalent in this region than in the United States, where approximately 17% of children are obese, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention "Obesity in the majority of the member states affects 1-2 in every 10 children. The problem is more serious among southern European countries," Dr. João Breda , head of the WHO European Office for Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases, which authored the report, wrote in an email. "We believe it is due to the loss of the traditional Mediterranean diet patterns in the south [and] to the increased intake of sugars and energy dense foods combined with particularly low levels of physical activity," Breda added. The Mediterranean diet is typically characterized by a high intake of plant-based foods and olive oil; a moderate intake of fish and poultry; a low intake of dairy products, red meat and sweets; and a moderate intake of wine, according to a 2018 WHO report Exhaustive evidence suggests that adherence to a Mediterranean diet can have prolonged benefits on cardiovascular and metabolic health. A 2011 study , for example, showed that adherence to the Mediterranean diet for four years reduced the incidence of Type 2 diabetes by 52% in older adults. Childhood obesity was over twice as prevalent in southern European countries than in northern European countries such as Denmark, Ireland and Norway, where rates of obesity in boys and girls ranged between 5% and 9%, according to the report. The latest data come from the WHO Childhood Obesity Surveillance Initiative, which has tracked obesity and overweight prevalence among European children ages 6 to 9 for the past 10 years. For the new report, height and weight measurements of approximately 250,000 children from 34 countries were collected between 2015 and 2017. Some larger nations -- such as the United Kingdom and Germany -- did not partake in the study but have their own surveillance systems to track overweight and obesity prevalence in children. "This is a unique initiative in global terms and the biggest worldwide with such huge datasets," Breda said. "Given its dimension and critical mass, we believe this study brings significant insights into the global picture." The increased prevalence of childhood obesity in southern Europe compared with the rest of the continent is probably due to a combination of dietary and lifestyle changes, according to Dr. Bruce Y. Lee , executive director of the Johns Hopkins Global Obesity Prevention Center, who was not involved in the WHO report. "It's a combination of factors," Lee said. "There are changes in the food system -- more artificial foods, more processed foods, foods with additives, salt, sugar, et cetera -- and that's an issue worldwide." "There's also decreasing physical activity that's occurring. We're currently in the middle of a physical inactivity epidemic, or pandemic, because people have more sedentary lives," Lee added. San Marino, which had the fifth highest rate of childhood obesity in the new report, paradoxically also has the fifth highest average life expectancy of any country in the world, according to the CIA World Factbook . The average life expectancy there in 2017 was 83.3 years. "One of the issues is of course that the Mediterranean diet was part of a lifestyle with lots of spontaneous physical activity -- [that is] why it always had a generous amount of calories," Breda said. "In recovering the Mediterranean diet, we must ensure the provision of calories is adjusted for modern life and physical activity levels are increased -- basically adjusting and recovering the Mediterranean diet to the 21st century," he added. Changes to diet and lifestyle in the Mediterranean region may also be the result of increased urbanization, according to Aviva Must , professor and chair of public health and community medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine, who was not involved in the new report. "The Mediterranean diet is under threat by urbanization and globalization," Must wrote in an email. "Traditional southern European food habits, particularly for children, are changing, with more processed foods, more animal sources, less fiber and more calories overall." Breda says the new report does not mean the Mediterranean diet is less healthy than previously believed. However, the results suggest that, in many parts of the Mediterranean region, many people's diets and lifestyles are no longer what they once were, he said. "The Mediterranean diet in children of the Mediterranean countries basin is a myth -- it is gone unfortunately," Breda said. "But the good news is that there are strong movements and initiatives in these countries to recover it. We hope these are successful and the principles of this traditional diet will be available and become the default for all in years to come in this part of Europe," he added. Changes in diet may also be linked to increased rates of poverty in some southern European countries. Many of the countries with the highest rates of childhood obesity have among the highest rates of poverty in Europe, according to the CIA Factbook 2011-2015 In Greece, for example, nearly 36% of the population lives below the poverty line -- the highest rate on the continent. "In times when childhood obesity has risen, there has been a disproportionate rise among lower income neighborhoods and lower income populations," Lee said. "Many low income populations have poor access to healthy foods, because if you think about it, living a healthy lifestyle can cost money." Childhood obesity increases the risk of a number of adverse health outcomes in adulthood. Studies suggest that a child with obesity is five to seven times more likely to be obese as an adult than children who are not obese, according to Breda. "Childhood obesity increases the risk of adult obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease later in life," Breda said. "In many countries, obesity affects more children in underprivileged groups and adds to the striking health inequalities reinforcing a vicious cycle of poverty and noncommunicable diseases." Obesity also has negative effects on children's physical and mental health before adulthood, according to Lee. "We're now seeing chronic diseases that were once thought of as adult diseases affecting children. So now we're seeing Type 2 diabetes in children, where typically when you talk about diabetes in children, you used to think about Type 1 diabetes," Lee said. Despite the high rates of childhood obesity in much of southern Europe, the prevalence has leveled off or slightly decreased in many of these countries since the previous WHO report, according to Breda. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "The decline has been estimated from 2-7% in countries like Spain, Italy, Portugal and Greece," Breda said. "We need more studies and more rounds to be sure about the size of the decrease and we are already preparing for the 5th round next year." The new data could be good news, then, for those working to tackle the increasing rates of childhood obesity in the region. "The study clearly highlights the importance of addressing the problem of childhood obesity in a comprehensive and systematic fashion using educational and regulatory tools," Breda said. "But it also conveys a strong sign of hope that if we do the right things and implement powerful solutions, the problem can be solved."
(CNN) Two people died Wednesday after a home collapsed in western North Carolina, due to weather. Heavy rains pummeled the western part of the state on Tuesday and Wednesday, causing mudslides, as well as forcing evacuations and road closures. The two victims were found dead in the rubble in Boone, North Carolina, according to the Boone Fire Department. A landslide occurred, which caused a gas explosion that leveled the house, said Shane Robbins, the Boone Police Department spokesman. A search and rescue ensued after two people were reported in the structure in Boone, North Carolina. The incident marked the fourth weather-related deaths attributed to Alberto, which made landfall earlier this week as a subtropical storm and has since drenched the states in its path. On Monday, two journalists from South Carolina-based CNN affiliate WYFF were killed in Polk County, North Carolina. A tree fell on their SUV as they covered the hazardous weather, the station said. The weather conditions prompted North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper to declare a state of emergency Wednesday for the western part of the state.
In an interview with the Boston Globe on Tuesday, the California Democrat, who has led her party in the House for the last 15 years, said of the 2018 midterm election and her future: "We will win. I will run for speaker. I feel confident about it. And my members do, too." That announcement was greeted with a mixture of joy and disappointment within the Democratic Party. Republicans, on the other hand, were positively gleeful at the prospect of having the unpopular Pelosi to run against this November -- and maybe more Novembers to come. That reaction typifies the double-edged sword that Pelosi has become for Democrats. She is, without question, the party's best fundraiser and a hero among liberals in and out of Congress. Given those twin strengths, it is virtually impossible for Pelosi to be beaten in an intraparty vote. At the same time, Pelosi -- thanks to years of sustained attacks from Republicans -- is an unpopular figure in many key districts Democrats need to win the majority this fall. In an NBC-Wall Street Journal poll in March, just 21% had a positive view of Pelosi as compared to 43% who saw her in a negative light. In recent years, as Democrats have failed to recapture the majority they lost in 2010, more and more rank-and-file Democrats have broken away from Pelosi -- calling for younger (and just plain different) leadership (Pelosi is 78 years old). In the leadership vote following the 2016 election, nearly one third of the Democratic caucus voted for someone other than Pelosi -- the most opposition she has ever faced. At the same time, the fact that it was a story that Pelosi only won with two-thirds of her caucus speaks to how strong her standing among her peers remains. "It's always easy to say you want a change in leadership," former New York Rep. Steve Israel told me. "But change requires forethought. Who can raise the hundreds of millions that she can? Who can keep the caucus together as she has? Who can secure the legislative victories she's secured? Sometimes, you don't know what you got until they're gone." There is no question that Pelosi's fundraising ability cannot be immediately replaced -- and that Democrats might struggle for years to replace it. Pelosi raised more than $16 million in the first three months of 2018, with the vast majority of that total -- $15.4 million -- going directly to the party's campaign arm. Pelosi's office puts her total fundraising since she became a member of the Democratic leadership in 2002 at just south of $660 million. That's a staggering sum for any elected official. And, the Democratic bench to replace Pelosi is very, very thin. Aside from New York Rep. Joe Crowley, who has been waiting in the wings for years and is increasingly open about his ambitions , there simply are not a large chunk of potential Pelosi successors. Much of that has to do with Pelosi's longevity. People like Steny Hoyer of Maryland or Jim Clyburn of South Carolina, the second and third ranking Democrats in the House, are simply too old to offer themselves as fresh faces in a post-Pelosi era (Hoyer is also 78 years old; Clyburn is 77). Other rising stars within the party -- Israel, Xavier Becerra of California, Chris Van Hollen of Maryland and Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida -- have either moved up to the Senate, left Washington for other politics jobs, retired or seen their careers blow up. All of that makes for a major leadership vacuum if and when Pelosi leaves. She knows that. And she also knows that there is just no math in the Democratic caucus by which she doesn't secure a majority of the votes -- no matter what happens on election day 2018. The truth is -- and this has been a fact for quite some time now -- there is no one who would stand a chance against her in a leadership election. That reality doesn't preclude the fact that she is increasingly an anchor around the necks of candidates running in politically marginal areas. But, for all of the chatter from Democratic candidates and elected officials about how it's time for Pelosi to go, all of them will admit they can't make it happen. Pelosi is here to stay. For as long as she wants.
(CNN) A second survivor of Cuba's worst aviation disaster in three decades died Friday, raising the death toll to 112 one day after state-run media reported that investigators had recovered the second flight data recorder. Cubana de Aviación flight DMJ 0972 was traveling from the Cuban capital to the eastern city of Holguin when it plummeted into an agricultural area near the Havana airport a week ago. Three female passengers survived the crash into thick vegetation just miles from the runway. They were critically injured. One of the women, Emiley Sánchez de la O, 40, died early Friday, four days after the death of Grettel Landrove, according to state media. The majority of the passengers were Cuban. Six crew members were from Mexico, and five other passengers were foreigners, state media reported. The passengers included four children and an infant. JUST WATCHED Video shows plume of smoke from plane crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows plume of smoke from plane crash 01:42 The second flight data recorder was found Thursday, according to state media. The cockpit voice recorder was recovered last weekend. Read More
According to the book Pizzapedia by Dan Bransfield, the Associazione Verace Pizza Napoletana recognizes three types of genuine Neapolitan pizzas, one being pizza Margherita. It’s defined as being “made with tomato, sliced mozzarella, basil and extra-virgin olive oil.” It’s a pared-down, more flavorful version of what Americans think of as cheese pizza, and it looks like this: Before you even question its name, it’s possible that, if you’re American, you don’t even know what pizza Margherita is in the first place. (If you do, we apologize for the condescension and hope you forgive us.) There’s a lot of confusion about the difference between cheese pizza, plain pizza and Margherita pizza . Have you ever ordered a pizza Margherita and wondered why it’s even called that? So how did it get its name? The most widespread ― though not undisputed ― belief suggests that Margherita of Savoy, onetime queen consort of Italy, was visiting Naples with her husband, King Umberto I (who happened to be her first cousin), in June 1889. This came on the heels of the unification of northern and southern Italy, and southern Italy was in need of a morale boost after its loss of independence. Enter Queen Margherita and her appetite. Legend has it that the queen tired of the gourmet French food she’d been served on the trip, and asked the most famous pizzamaker in Naples, Raffaele Esposito of Pizzeria Brandi, to make her pizza. The story goes that the pizza she liked best was made with mozzarella, tomatoes and basil, which just happened to represent the three colors of the Italian flag. Convenient, huh? Esposito named the dish after Queen Margherita, and the rest is disputed history. An alternate theory revolves around the fact that the word margherita translates to “daisy” in Italian, so some suggest the pizza got its name from the daisy-shaped arrangement of mozzarella and basil on top of the pizza. No matter how you slice it, pizza Margherita is delicious. If you can’t get some from your local pizzeria, make yourself a pie. We’ve got 29 different recipes.
ILLUSTRATION: JI SUB JEONG/HUFFPOST IMAGES: GETTY IMAGES After he graduated from college, it took Nathan two years, three unpaid internships and six bartending and retail jobs before he got his first paid gig in progressive politics. His employer was a small, millennial-focused outreach nonprofit, and his job was to supervise four interns — young kids, fresh out of school, working the same day job/night job, 80-hour-a-week cycle he had just exited. Nathan, who wouldn’t give his real name out of fear of retaliation, asked his boss if he could start paying the interns. “I didn’t think I was going to get them federal minimum wage — that’s impossible in Washington,” he said. “But at least they could get a stipend.” His boss refused, without offering much of a case for why they couldn’t afford to pay them. “It just wasn’t a conversation,” Nathan said. “I didn’t have the authority to push it because I was a low-level person.” He felt complicit, and after a few months, he quit. He’s currently in grad school to become a teacher. “I had a lot of hope that my party would not be slimy,” he said. “But that felt slimy.” Nathan’s experience is emblematic of a growing concern on the left: For a movement that wants to reach young people, low-income workers and people of color, progressive organizations and candidates don’t offer many paid opportunities. “This is why we see attrition in the movement,” said Maggie Thompson, executive director of Generation Progress, the youth arm of the liberal think tank Center for American Progress (which pays its interns, incidentally). For decades, internships, fellowships and paid travel to conferences have acted like a tractor beam, drawing young people into political movements and holding them long enough to become researchers, strategists and candidates. But the funding to support those kinds of programs hasn’t kept up with the economic realities of the young people who today’s progressives are trying to reach. “The pipeline of young people who can get through school, deal with student debt and stay involved in politics has shrunk dramatically compared to previous generations,” Thompson said. Progressives aren’t just out of sync with their own need to recruit and retain young people. They’re also lagging behind conservative interests. A 2017 study found that between 2008 and 2014, conservative donors gave three times more to millennial outreach groups than liberal donors. Much of that funding, Thompson says, went to things like paid fellowships, travel stipends and study grants ― creating the feeder system that will guide young people into actual jobs with political campaigns and think tanks. “The Republicans are building an army, while the Democrats are still paying you in ‘making the world a better place,’” said Carlos Vera, the executive director of Pay Our Interns, a watchdog group. “I’ve had older people say to me, ‘Well, I did unpaid internships and I was fine.’ Then you ask them when that was and they say, ‘1972.’ You could work your way through college back then. That simply is not the case anymore.” Vera spent last year calling every lawmaker in the House and Senate and asking whether they paid their interns. His report, Experience Doesn’t Pay the Bills, found that more than half of Republican senators offered paid internships, compared to fewer than a third of Democratic senators. In the House it was even worse: Twice as many Republicans as Democrats paid their interns. This year, Vera has been calling nonprofits and think tanks and asking them the same thing. So far he’s found the same pattern: Fox News, the Cato Institute and Americans for Prosperity pay their interns. The Progressive Policy Institute, Let America Vote and the Human Rights Campaign don’t. Between 2008 and 2014, conservative donors gave three times more to millennial outreach groups than liberal donors. Though harder to quantify than political donations, it appears that conservatives have built a recruitment, retention and leadership development apparatus that dwarfs that of the left. The Charles Koch Institute has an “associates program” that places young professionals in conservative think tanks and pays an average of $41,000 per year. The Leadership Institute, a conservative youth organization, offers interns free accommodation, free food, an $825-per-month stipend and a $200 “book allowance.” Thompson is on the mailing lists for several conservative youth organizations, and says they feature “nonstop travel scholarships, fellowships and opportunities.” Her progressive lists don’t offer nearly the same volume of funded positions. While some left-leaning think tanks do offer paid internships and fellowships, they tend to be less generous. EMILY’s List, for example, offers a stipend of “up to $300 per month, dependent on schedule,” but no housing. The American Civil Liberties Union tells internship applicants that “a modest stipend may be available if the student does not receive outside funding.” The New America Foundation offers course credits to its interns, which means they may actually be paying to work. Joshua Roberts / Reuters A Republican Party shirt is on display at the Conservative Political Action Conference at National Harbor, Maryland, Feb. 23, 2018. Republicans are more deliberate about college outreach The most glaring reason for the left-right youth investment gap is the sheer scale of the conservative political machine. In 2016, the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute both had revenues above $75 million. The largest progressive think tank, the Center for American Progress, had just $40.9 million. Republicans are also more deliberate with their outreach on college campuses. According to its 2017 tax filings, the Leadership Institute held 355 trainings for conservative students last year. In 2015, Young America’s Foundation spent $13 million on lectures, conferences, seminars and outreach — more than twice the entire budget of Young Invincibles, its rough analogue on the left. Turning Point USA, whose mission is to “identify, educate, train, and organize” college conservatives, went from $79,000 to $4.3 million in revenue in just three years. Conservatives have also invested in youth-oriented news sources. These include the news outlet Campus Reform (sample headline: “Financial aid for illegals likely to cost NJ nearly $5M/year”), the blog Red Alert Politics (“A’s for liberal papers only: A conservative’s college experience”) and the viral video shop Prager University (“The Least Free Place in America”). They all focus almost exclusively on the dangers of political correctness and the threats to free speech on college campuses. The Republicans are building an army, while the Democrats are still paying you in "making the world a better place." Carlos Vera, executive director of Pay Our Interns All this investment doesn’t mean, of course, that conservatives are winning the battle for millennial hearts and minds. Only 12 percent of young people considered themselves mostly or consistently conservative in a 2017 Pew poll, a 4-point drop since 2011. Progressive political organizations — as outlets like Campus Reform are always reminding us — still vastly outnumber conservative organizations on college campuses. But these differences do demonstrate the structural challenge of building a left-wing talent pipeline. Progressives are spread across a huge range of groups and issues — income inequality, climate change, racial justice — and have fewer organizations explicitly dedicated to movement-building than conservatives. That makes it harder to prioritize long-term investments over short-term wins. “The right is focused on the long game of investing in people when they find them on a college campus,” said Stephen Kent, the spokesperson for Young Voices Advocates, a nonprofit that, among other things, helps conservative students place op-eds in their college newspapers. “The left-leaning groups are working on whatever election is facing them in the next 12 months. Then all those connections die.” Amy Binder, a researcher at the University of California, San Diego, and the co-author of Becoming Right: How Campuses Shape Young Conservatives, has spent the past year interviewing students at four large state schools. She sees the same trend. “What the right is doing is creating a cadre of potential leaders,” she said. “When they’re on campus they aren’t necessarily doing the bidding of donors, but they’re getting to know each other. They’re professionalizing and socializing students. I don’t see that happening on the left in the same way.” Losing talent, missing opportunities While understandable given its constraints, the left’s challenges in movement-building are making it harder to transition from winning elections to making policy. One veteran progressive organizer, who didn’t want to be named out of concern for losing donors, points out that winning elections is just one component of building political power. “When you can’t get funding outside of that, you have to raise it elsewhere,” she said. “It’s a huge waste of time at a moment when statehouses are in session and we should be doing accountability work and getting laws passed.” And that’s not the only missed opportunity. Nearly everyone I spoke to pointed out that this has created not just a generation gap in progressive groups, but racial disparities between the voters they are trying to reach and the organizations representing them. A 2013 study found that 88 percent of nonprofit staffers and 92 percent of CEOs were white. Another, in 2016, found that only 11 percent of nonprofit staffers were under 30. The right is focused on the long game of investing in people when they find them on a college campus. Stephen Kent, spokesperson for Young Voices Advocates “We pride ourselves on supporting young people in our ideology, but then we don’t give them any options,” said Maxwell Love, a former president of the U.S. Student Association. He attended several left-wing political trainings as a student, he says, but there were few paid opportunities available. He’s watched many of his peers drift away from politics. “We’re missing people at their most formative political years,” he said. “I’m blown away by all the people in student government who seemed like they would work in progressive politics and then boom, they’re working at Oracle or they’re a business consultant. I’m not going to blame anyone for doing that, but it means we can’t hold on to talent, especially working-class folks and people of color.” The long-term ripple effects of this underinvestment are already visible. The average Democrat in Congress is 59.6 years old, almost four years older than the average Republican. The GOP has 23 senators under 60, compared to just 13 Democrats. Love is now 27 and a Wisconsin-based organizer for Our Revolution, the continuation of the Bernie Sanders campaign. He says there’s nothing inevitable about young people remaining Democrats ― he meets many young conservatives in the course of his work. “Maybe this isn’t a group we have on lock,” he said. Joshua Roberts / Reuters Students talk at CPAC, Feb. 23, 2018. The fault in our donors The lack of paid, entry-level jobs in progressive politics isn’t just the fault of Democrats or liberal organizations. Alexander Hertel-Fernandez, a political scientist at Columbia University, says the real culprit is donors. He compares the largest donor networks on the left and the right, the Democracy Alliance and the network of political organizations known as the “Koch network.” They’re similar in a lot of ways: Both pool donations from wealthy donors, vet recipients and seek to pull candidates closer to their causes. Where they differ are their structures ― and their effectiveness. Hertel-Fernandez points out that since 2012, the Koch network, despite its lack of formal structure, has become more centralized and hierarchical. It gives to the favorite causes of its founders, billionaire fossil fuel moguls Charles and David Koch, and, increasingly, to organizations they control directly. Freedom Partners, one of the Koch network’s largest nonprofits, concentrates the majority of its giving on just eight organizations. The Democracy Alliance, on the other hand, has moved in the opposite direction, giving smaller donations to a wider range of charities and delegating control to its members, according to Hertel-Fernandez’s research. The Democracy Alliance did not respond to a request for comment. “It’s hard to steer the ship of progressive donors,” Hertel-Fernandez said. “All of the folks participating in the Democracy Alliance have their own favorite issues and strategies. They come in with a set of organizations they’re enthusiastic about. In the Koch network, you’re signing up to support the Kochs’ agenda.” The way this difference manifests on the ground is in the balance between united, general funding versus activity-specific and project-based funding. Sarah Audelo, executive director of the Alliance for Youth Action, a consortium of youth-focused member organizations, says most of her donors want data and metrics on how their donations are spent. For some projects, they pay per door knock. That’s understandable ― who doesn’t want their donations to be spent efficiently? ― but it also means she has less room for experimentation, and less flexibility to hire staff and capitalize on the youth activism spreading across the country since 2016 on issues like immigration and gun violence. “Since Parkland, we’ve got tons of young people engaging,” she said. Her groups want to scale to meet the demand, but donors don’t always want to provide the resources to hire enough full-time, paid staff. “You can’t manage contacts and track legislation with only volunteers,” she said. “In some places, we’re literally turning away young people who are great candidates for interns and fellows because we don’t have the capacity to give them a positive experience. Progressives shouldn’t be turning away young people in states like Texas.” Hertel-Fernandez says the strategy conservative donors have employed — get large and stay large — is part of what’s allowed conservative mobilization groups like Americans for Prosperity to mobilize so quickly around opposing Medicaid expansion, restricting public sector unions and pre-empting cities from raising the minimum wage. “They’ve made strategic investments,” he said. “Americans for Prosperity is organized at the local, state and national level. If you want to affect politics in the United States, you have to organize at all of those levels. They’ve moved the party further and faster to the right than progressives have moved the Democrats to the left.” Jonathan Ernst / Reuters Charlie Kirk, founder of Turning Point USA, laughs during a youth forum at the White House, March 22, 2018.
Dawn Dimowo is a lawyer and senior consultant at africapractice, a Pan-African strategy and communications consultancy. She studied in France for several years where she obtained graduate degrees from the Universite Pantheon Assas (Paris II) and worked at the International Criminal Police Organisation INTERPOL. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely hers. Abuja, Nigeria (CNN) As a sans-papiers -- an immigrant without papers -- Mamadou Gassama should have been condemned to a life in the shadows, dodging immigration officials and living in bad social housing -- but for his superhuman feat of climbing four balconies to save a little boy from certain death. No papers, but a desire for a better life. No papers, but strong arms and a brave heart. By that singular act of bravery, Gassama suddenly qualified for French citizenship and showed that being a good immigrant is not so much about being legal or illegal, right or wrong, black or white. It is about being desired. For immigrants of color the world over, desirability is too often judged by high achievement, by doing or going above and beyond the ordinary. You cannot just be smart enough, talented enough, strong enough, brave enough. You must be exceptional. Gassama's fast track route to citizenship will certainly remain the exception as French President Emmanuel Macron has made it clear that France cannot absorb all the misery in the world. Life in France as an immigrant of color (legal or illegal) is no bed of roses. The misery is all too present in how they are viewed as second class citizens, denied access to jobs and routinely treated with suspicion by police and neighbors alike. I was a graduate student at one of the best universities, the 'law school of the Sorbonne' and each time I mentioned where I studied, I could see how I was immediately rated an above par immigrant. It also helped my standing in my part time job as a private English tutor for French students, helping with homework or preparations for rigorous exams. Flanked by his older brother, Gassama holds his temporary residence permit after receiving it Tuesday. And when I told the upper middle class parents of a 10-year-old boy I had been tutoring, that it was my last lesson, that I had completed my degree and would be leaving to work at a prestigious international organization, I visibly went up several notches in their estimation. I was immediately asked to stay for an aperitif and engaged in a lengthy conversation about wine and French and English literature, and about my new job and plans. I was suddenly, even more interesting than before. I became one of the good immigrants. Until I wasn't. Two weeks later I would struggle with getting an apartment in a new city because as a black immigrant, I was immediately branded an unsuitable tenant until I could prove otherwise. Experiences of this kind were, thankfully, few and far between for me, but for too many, they are everyday occurrences -- the stark reality of the immigrant experience when the social and political reflex is to presume the worst about you until you prove otherwise. In France, many immigrants and their second generation children live in often deplorable conditions in social housing projects, in poor suburbs. For them, the reality of life in France is unemployment, poverty and a life of racial profiling and discrimination by the authorities. There have been violent protests and clashes with police over the years, including the notorious 2005 riots when Paris burned over a three-week period of clashes. Earlier this year, the lower house of the French National Assembly passed a stricter immigration law which introduced a one year prison sentence for illegal entry into the country. The prime immigration hubs across the world have long favored the best and brightest, combined with an assessment in France that tests the immigrant's desire to integrate. According to stats released by the OECD and the French national statistics body INSEE in 2014, immigrants constitute under a tenth of the population (8.8%), and in terms of new arrivals, Africans are a smaller migrant group (30%) than Europeans. But figures of asylum applications -- 100,000 in France in 2017 -- tend to get more traction and too often result in blanket policies and definitions -- 'no economic migrants' -- which ignore the different kinds of value immigration and migrants bring to the table. Migrants are not only seeking a better life, better economic conditions for themselves and their families, many of them are also offering their skills and a willingness to contribute to the economy by working hard and also to impact the communities they live in, just as Gassama has done. France's proposed immigration law, which will be debated by the French Senate in June, also shortens asylum application deadlines, while extending the time failed asylum seekers can be held pending deportation, demonstrating that even for political migrants, the country has no intention of making it easy. The unanswered question for thousands of immigrants reading Gassama's story with pride -- how does their situation change? When intrinsic worth and value as a human being is not always nearly enough for equal treatment in the eyes of the state and the law, how many extraordinary feats and acts of superhuman courage will it take to change attitudes on immigration and towards migrants?
London (CNN) Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, the British-Iranian woman imprisoned in Tehran, is likely to be convicted on new charges of "spreading propaganda" against the Iranian regime, her husband said on Monday. Zaghari-Ratcliffe, who was arrested in 2016 and jailed for five years for spying against the regime, appeared in court on Saturday to face the charges. The 39-year-old, whose husband, Richard, has been leading the fight for her release, has consistently denied all the allegations against her. But according to Ratcliffe: "She was told by Judge (Abolghassem) Salavati to expect that she will be convicted." Asked for its response to the latest development, the UK Foreign Office said: "We will continue to approach each case in a way that we judge is most likely to secure the outcome we all want. Therefore, we will not be providing a running commentary on every twist and turn." Read More
At least that's how I remember it. I was 7. I'm wedged between a cousin and my father, my grandmother perched behind. We are in the back of an open pickup near the banks of the Olifants River in South Africa. "Drive!" we shout at my uncle in the cab, banging on the roof. But banging on the roof is our signal to stop. The truck stops and the elephant is right behind us. We can see the milk discharging from her teats. Her newborn is somewhere hidden in the bushes. My dad pulls out an antique double-barreled shotgun. He loads it with birdshot to fire in the air. "Don't shoot the elephant," my gran cries and smacks him. It would be like shooting an elephant with a tic-tac. I am crying, and so is my cousin. We smell the elephant musk; we can see the horizon through its legs. My uncle sees the elephant looming in his rearview mirror. He hits the accelerator. Outrunning the charging animal, we bounce along the dirt track. Shortly after, she turns back. We are safe. Right around the corner, the truck's axle breaks in an aardvark hole. My family often recounts this story. And from that incident, I learned elephants had to be respected -- even feared. It means no worries Imagine my alarm, then, nearly 30 years later, when I am assigned by CNN to a story in the Maasai Mara in Kenya. The Great Elephant Census found 30% of African elephants disappeared over seven years. The guide drives right up to a breeding herd of elephants in the grasslands and promptly switches off the engine. "Shouldn't we keep it on," I say, "and maybe not be so close." "The elephants here are relaxed," he smiles, "Hakuna Matata." Meaning: "No worries." I can't understand it. The elephants don't charge. They do not seem agitated, as has been my experience. They completely ignore us. To be sure, elephants can be dangerous -- and sometimes deadly. But in this section of the Mara, there hasn't been hunting for decades. They are used to the tourist vehicles. The game farm from my childhood near Olifants bordered a hunting reserve to the west. At the time, they still culled elephants in Kruger National Park to the east. The elephants knew. "Elephants have a cognitive sense of where they are safe and where they are at risk," Mike Chase, the lead scientist on the Great Elephant Census, told me on a recent trip to Botswana, where he's been tracking elephant movements for years. The census is a pioneering pan-African aerial survey that aims to count the continent's savanna elephant populations. "This is really the front line, this is as far as they come, they will no longer move across eastern Namibia into Angola and Zambia, fearful of the consequences of poaching," says Chase. As poaching rises, the elephants know to stay away. And they remember. No, they don't forget It's sometimes tempting to anthropomorphize -- to give an animal human characteristics -- but the more I speak to people about elephants, the more elephants seem special. I met up with Chase with Ingrid Formanek, one of CNN's most experienced field producers. Ingrid's connection to Botswana runs deep. In 1999 she moved to Maun, on the doorstep of the Okavango Delta, to document the rehabilitation of elephants. She lived there on and off for five years. She remembered me with that simple gesture. She took the hat off my head and put it on hers. She then put it back. Ingrid Formanek, CNN Ingrid recounts the story of an elephant orphaned in the Kruger culls, called Shireni. Shireni's handler taught her a trick: to remove her handler's hat with her trunk and to put it on her own head and then to put it back on her handler's. Ingrid observed as the elephant learned the behavior. Nearly a decade later, Ingrid went back and saw Shireni. "She remembered me with that simple gesture. She took the hat off my head and put it on hers. She then put it back. She made the link to that time in our lives," says Ingrid. ""Shireni hadn't done that in all the interim years. I was amazed, and truth be told, flattered." Anybody who has studied or worked with elephants has their own stories about how sharp elephant memories are. Experts like Dame Daphne Sheldrick, who has rescued hundreds of orphaned calves, talks about elephants remembering people years later, and the things that happened to them -- good and bad. Sheldrick speaks of elephants reintroduced to the wild who have returned years, sometimes decades, later for help with an injury or just to say "hello." Vanishing herds Despite their obvious emotional intelligence and survival instincts, elephants can't escape the ravages of humans. Elephants are slaughtered by poachers who seek their ivory tusks. Before European colonization, scientists believe that Africa may have held as many as 20 million elephants; by 1979 only 1.3 million remained -- and the Great Elephant Census revealed this year that things have gotten far worse. In the seven years between 2007 and 2014, numbers plummeted by at least 30%, or 144,000 elephants. As of July, Africa's savannah is now home to only 352,271 elephants, according to the Great Elephant Census . Overall, including forest elephants, there are thought to be between 400,000 and 500,000 elephants across Africa. And the specific cases are even more disturbing: In the Selous Game Reserve in Tanzania, and Mozambique's Niassa Reserve, elephant populations have plummeted by more than 75% in the past 10 years as poachers cut down family herds, according to the survey. "When you think of how many elephants occurred in areas 10 or 20 years ago, it's incredibly disheartening," says Chase. "Historically these ecosystems supported many thousands of elephants compared to the few hundreds or tens of elephants we counted." In Botswana, elephants were long thought to be safe. It was part of southern Africa's "haven" that comprises 60% of all savannah elephants counted in the census. But the ivory poaching wars, driven primarily by Asian demand, are on its doorstep. Historically these ecosystems supported many thousands of elephants compared to the few hundreds or tens of elephants we counted. Mike Chase, Great Elephant Census Botswana is fighting an unconventional war to try to stop the slaughter, with the Botswana Defense Force mobilized throughout the border region. More than 700 specially trained soldiers are stationed in 40 bases in the far north. That protection no longer seems enough. A new memory From a distance, it appears the elephant could be resting. But the smell reveals the truth. A once glorious bull lies lifeless in a dry section of the Linyanti swamp in Botswana. His face hacked off by poachers. As we approach, we see the tusks have been taken. The trunk is 10 paces from the body. The carcass is perhaps two or three days old. And it is just one of more than 20 we have counted in Linyanti in just over 48 hours. Now, with current rates of poaching, they will be wiped out from some of their range states. They could even go locally extinct, says Chase. "I've been asked if I'm optimistic or pessimistic about the future of Africa's elephants," he says, "and on days like today, I feel that we are failing the elephants." This horrific scene could be the only way we remember them.
This essay is part of a column called The Wisdom Project by David Allan, editorial director of CNN Health and Wellness. The series is on applying to one's life the wisdom and philosophy found everywhere, from ancient texts to pop culture. You can follow David at @davidgallan . Don't miss another Wisdom Project column; subscribe here . (CNN) Every January for the past 20 years, I have taken a few moments to ponder the answer to the question "what is the meaning of life?" It's one of those enormous questions that's so important -- philosophically and practically in terms of how we live our lives -- and yet we never stop to really think about the answer. Given that you might be able to formulate your response in less than a minute, the wisdom-to-effort ratio for this philosophical exercise could not be more advantageous. This simple exercise might even help you live longer. According to two separate studies published in 2014 -- one among 9,000 participants over age 65 and another among 6,000 people between 20 and 75 -- those who could articulate the meaning and purpose of their lives died later than those who saw their lives as aimless. It didn't seem to matter what meaning participants ascribed to their life, whether it was personal (like happiness), creative (like making art) or altruistic (like making the world a better place). It was having an answer to the question that mattered. The connection to longevity could be causal (having purpose may help one cope with daily stress , as other research has shown), but it could also be that those who think about life's meaning are more likely to do other activities that promote good health. The reason I ask this question year after year is because my answer changes over time, which I find interesting and insightful. There is no objectively correct answer, I believe, only answers that are right for you at any given time. Great thinkers (and celebrities) have given the question thought, so you can look to the words attributed to them for inspiration. Aristotle, the Greek philosopher who lived 2,500 years ago, is believed to have written that the essence of life is "to serve others and to do good," and the Roman philosopher Cicero, born 280 years later, came to the same conclusion. As did Russian author Leo Tolstoy, who wrote, "The sole meaning of life is to serve humanity." And His Holiness the Dalai Lama added, "if you can't help them, at least don't hurt them." Scottish rugby legend Nelson Henderson put the same notion poetically when he said, "The true meaning of life is to plant trees, under whose shade you do not expect to sit." And actress Whoopi Goldberg's meaning-of-life metaphor was to "throw little torches out to lead people through the dark." "Love" was the conclusion of Trappist monk and writer Thomas Merton, and "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" actress Julie Benz. Alternatively, actor Arnold Schwarzenegger concluded, "The meaning of life is not simply to exist, to survive but to move ahead, to go up, to achieve, to conquer." My favorite answer, though, is the Zen-like circular reasoning attributed to writer Robert Byrne, who put it, "The purpose of life is a life of purpose." Some have concluded that life's meaning is subjective. "There is not one big cosmic meaning for all," Anaïs Nin wrote in her diary. "There is only the meaning we each give to our life, an individual meaning, an individual plot, like an individual novel, a book for each person." I agree, which is why I recommend formulating your own answer. "Each man must look to himself to teach him the meaning of life. It is not something discovered: It is something molded," wrote Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, well-known for his book "The Little Prince." Taking a few moments to record your answer to the question "what is the meaning of life?" is the kind of simple exercise that effectively adds meaning to your life. And then I suggest answering it every year. Looking back at how your thinking has evolved and been influenced by experience tells you something more about yourself. Cumulatively, it gets you closer to a deeper self-understanding. In 1997, my answer was "the discovery, pursuit and attainment of one's bliss," inspired by myth expert Joseph Campbell. A year later, is was to make "the world a better place." In 2002, the year I got engaged, it was simply "Love." And the year we conceived our oldest daughter, it was the less-romantic "continuation of one's DNA to the next generation." But most years, my answer is some combination of love, legacy, happiness, experience and helping others. Subscribe to this column Don't miss another Wisdom Project column by subscribing here. As a practical matter, if you want to do the annual "Meaning" exercise, I suggest not looking at past answers before answering anew, to avoid biasing your answer. I write them down on the same now-yellowing piece of loose-leaf paper, and keep it someplace safe. The last use of this experiment is to try to turn your answer into action. If you conclude, as Tolstoy and Aristotle did, that the meaning of life to help others, that should help motivate you to do more of it. If "love," is the answer, then love more. If it's "find your bliss," then get searching for it. This is not a theoretical exercise. Whatever small step you make toward finding the meaning of life is a step toward a more meaningful, and longer, life.
Mel Robbins is a CNN commentator, legal analyst, best-selling author and keynote speaker. In 2014, she was named outstanding news talk-radio host by the Gracie Awards. This commentary has been updated since its publication. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) I just finished reading one of the most powerful things I've ever seen. If you've already seen it, you likely feel the same way: It is riveting. It's raw. I hung on every single word. It is the 12-page victim impact statement written by a woman who was raped in January 2015 on the Stanford University campus after a night of drinking at a party. The power of her words stood in stark contrast to those of the father of her attacker. He, too, wrote a letter to the judge who held his son's fate in his hands. It is deeply disturbing in its plainspoken and clueless banality, and tells you everything you need to know about why the crime of rape so frequently goes unpunished in America. This is a case with no ambiguity. There were witnesses to her attack: two male Stanford students were riding their bikes across campus when they spotted Brock Allen Turner on top of a woman who wasn't moving. These men are among the heroes in her heartbreakingly sad story. They chased him, tackled him and held him until the police came. The victim had no memory of the rape. She was unconscious behind a dumpster when Turner assaulted her. His defense: she consented. He was convicted of all three felony accounts and will register as a sex offender. He faced 14 years in prison, and will only serve six months. (update: Turner was released from jail Friday after serving 3 months of his sentence.) At the sentencing, the victim read her letter aloud and addressed Turner directly. In it, she gives a harrowing description of her rape and a jaw-dropping account of its aftermath. Reading it will expose you to the horror every rape victim faces as she is retraumatized over and over while society seeks "justice" against her rapist. I'm a parent. I was so moved that I printed out a copy. I wanted my family to read it. Not just our two daughters, but my husband and our son. That's who should be reading this letter. Give it to your sons, your brothers and your mates. If anything is going to change the culture of rape in our society, it will be a turnaround led by men like the two guys who stopped it that night and the Santa Clara county district attorney, Jeff Rosen, who called the sentence "unjust." Rosen added that "the fact that the defendant preyed upon an intoxicated stranger on a college campus should not be viewed as less serious than if he assaulted an intoxicated stranger in downtown Palo Alto... Campus rape is no different than off-campus rape. Rape is rape." We women know all too well about victim blaming, alcohol as an excuse for assault. It's not alcohol that's raping women; it is men. Our sons, all the young men in our lives need to be told: Alcohol is never an excuse As the victim wrote: "Is it a factor? Yes. But alcohol was not the one who stripped me, fingered me, had my head dragging against the ground, with me almost fully naked." It's black and white: If a woman is drunk, she can't consent. After hearing from the victim, the judge also considered the appalling letter from the rapist's father, Dan Turner. In it, he pleads with the judge for leniency for his son, explaining that his son should not have to go to prison for "20 minutes of action." The father describes how "this" has affected his son negatively—he has lost his appetite and doesn't like eating "ribeye steak" anymore. JUST WATCHED Did Brock Turner take a photo of rape victim? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Did Brock Turner take a photo of rape victim? 03:45 He writes, "The fact that he now has to register as a sexual offender for the rest of his life forever alters where he can live, visit, work, and interact with people and organization." He argues that his son's "life will never be the one that he dreamed about and worked so hard to achieve." In the end, the judge sentenced Turner to six months in county prison, saying a harsher penalty would have a "severe impact" on the aspiring athlete. His sentence includes probation and his name in a sex offender registry. That last part isn't to punish Turner -- it's to protect us all from him. You know why he has to register as a sexual offender? It's because he committed a sexual crime. Even after the trial. Even after the conviction, there is still denial -- Turner's dad writing that his son has "never been violent to anyone including the night of" the crime! Twelve jurors believed otherwise. And now the Turners will appeal. Social media has been rightfully ablaze. The most compelling tweet I have seen is this one by Twitter user Jez Kemp, who edited the dad's letter to highlight the victim-blaming, swapping in female pronouns to illuminate the issue. Take a look: Rape isn't a story about alcohol. It's one of choices. And every man has a choice. To rape or not. To rescue or ignore. To deliver justice or give someone a slap on the wrist. The only thing that will change this is awareness by men. The good guys. That's why I'm asking you to share this letter with your sons, your brothers and your friends.
This story was first published in April, after the author attended an NRA convention. She reflected again on what she heard and saw this week after learning of the Las Vegas massacre on Monday, which was also Mahatma Gandhi's birthday. Atlanta (CNN) Guns are not a part of the culture of my homeland, except perhaps for the occasional Bollywood movie in which the bad guy meets his demise staring down the wrong end of a barrel. My childhood in India was steeped in ahimsa, the tenet of nonviolence toward all living things. The Indians may have succeeded in ousting the British, but we won with Gandhian-style civil disobedience, not a revolutionary war. I grew up not knowing a single gun owner, and even today India has one of the strictest gun laws on the planet. Few Indians buy and keep firearms at home, and gun violence is nowhere near the problem it is in the United States. An American is 12 times more likely than an Indian to be killed by a firearm, according to a recent study It's no wonder then that every time I visit India, my friends and family want to know more about America's "love affair" with guns. I get the same questions when I visit my brother in Canada or on my business travels to other countries, where many people remain perplexed, maybe even downright mystified, by Americans' defense of gun rights. I admit I do not fully understand it myself, despite having become an American citizen nearly a decade ago. So when I learn the National Rifle Association is holding its annual convention here in Atlanta, right next to the CNN Center, I decide to go and find out more. in the exhibitor's hall at the #nraam2017 in #atlanta. #nra #guns @cnn A post shared by Moni Basu (@mbasucnn) on Apr 28, 2017 at 9:24am PDT My eyes open wide inside the vast and cavernous Georgia World Congress Center. I take in countless exhibits by the firearms industry and even check out a few guns. Among them are the Mossberg Blaze .22 semiautomatic Rimfire Rifle and an FN 509 semi-automatic 9mm pistol. I've never had the desire to own a gun. I try hard to experience the excitement of others who are admiring these products. Around me are 80,000 of America's fiercest patriots and defenders of guns. Many are wearing American flag attire and T-shirts with slogans like: "Veterans before refugees" and "God loves guns." Few people here look like me. Most appear to be white and male. Many view the media, including my employer, with disdain -- and they do not hesitate to let me know. I walk around with some trepidation, but I'm determined to strike up conversations. I begin with this question: "Why do you want to own an object that can kill another human being?" The answers are varied, but they center on three main themes: freedom, self-defense and sport. The first type of response is rooted in the Second Amendment to the US Constitution, which allows for the ownership of more than 300 million guns in America. How many other countries have the right to bear arms written into their very foundation? It's unique and because of that, foreigners often have trouble grasping it. I meet Chris Styskal at a booth set up by the NRA Wine Club. Yes, a wine club for the almost 5 million members of the organization. "Eat, sleep, go fishing. Drink, sleep, go shooting. In that order," Styskal jokes. But then we get into serious talk. Gun ownership, he tells me, has its roots in the birth of this country. "George Washington's army fought off the British with rifles," he says. "They overthrew an oppressive government." His statement gives me pause. The gun laws in India stem from colonial rule, when the British aimed to quell their subjects by disarming them. Perhaps my Indian compatriots should consider the right to own guns from this perspective. Styskal, 41, earned a degree in psychology from Fairleigh Dickinson University, and tells me the prevailing belief that gun owners are not educated is simply wrong. He owns a collection of rifles and pistols at his home in Port Carbon, Pennsylvania, and last year he fired 100 rounds every week at a shooting range. He says the Second Amendment is about much more than the right to bear arms. It's about freedom. "We don't want any government telling us what we can and cannot do." It's a thought echoed by Brickell "Brooke" Clark, otherwise known as the American Gun Chic. She has a website by that name and also a YouTube channel. Both are bathed in hues of pink and dedicated to her recently formed passion for guns. I introduce myself to Clark as we await President Donald Trump's arrival at the convention. The darkened room is booming with NRA clips bashing everyone from Hillary Clinton to George Clooney. "What would you tell my friends in India who say Americans are infatuated with guns?" "I wouldn't say Americans have an obsession with guns," Clark says. "We have an obsession with being free." I ask what the Second Amendment means to her. "It means I can live my life without anyone overpowering me," she says. "It makes me equal with everyone else." The great equalizer. I never thought of the Second Amendment in that way. Self-protection, I discover, is a huge reason many Americans own firearms. Take Chloe Morris. She was born in Atlanta to Filipino parents; on this day, she's brought her mother along to hear Trump, the first sitting President to speak at an NRA convention since Ronald Reagan. Morris is 35, petite and soft-spoken, but she's fierce about her opinions on guns. "I'm 5 feet tall and 100 pounds," she tells me. "I cannot wait for a cop to come save me when I am threatened with rape or death." Morris was once opposed to guns. "Extremely opposed," she says. She earned a master's degree in criminal justice from Georgia State University. "I know the law," she says. "For me guns were not the answer." But a few years ago, a dear friend was assaulted in her own home in an upscale Atlanta subdivision. The incident struck fear in Morris. She would never let herself become a victim. She took shooting classes and became a Glock instructor. "I teach for free. I want women to be safe. "I own 10 guns. I have a 14-year-old son. I started teaching him to shoot when he was 5. I'm a lifetime member of the NRA." She pauses, and her next sentence surprises me. "I don't think I can even kill another person -- except when my life is in danger." In a way, I understand her position. My first real exposure to guns came after I embedded with the US Army and Marines to report the Iraq War. As a journalist I never carried a weapon, though soldiers coaxed me to learn how to shoot an M16. My conversation with Morris reminded me of a night when we came under threat, and the platoon sergeant placed a 9mm pistol on my Humvee seat. I refused to take it but knew instantly what he was trying to tell me. What if I were the last one alive? How would I save myself? Luckily, we were safe that night. But I've always wondered how I might have acted under a dreadful scenario. Other NRA members I speak with also tell me they don't trust the police to arrive in time when they are in danger. Scott Long, 55, lives out in the country in Piketon, Ohio -- 25 miles away from the county sheriff. "The police can't be there all the time," he says, looking at his wife, DeeDee, and their three young children, whom he's brought along to the convention for a mini family vacation. Their son Brody, 9, has been shooting at the pellet range and is excited about his first 20-gauge shotgun. "Where we live, we can shoot in our backyard," says Long, who owns 25 guns and is enjoying checking out all the shiny new weapons exhibited here. Such remoteness, too, is alien to me. I grew up in a city that now brims with some 16 million people on a working day. Firing guns in my grandfather's garden would not have been a good thing. I think about all the space we have in America. So many of us live far from other human beings. Like the Long family. Perhaps isolation adds to the need to own guns. I move forward in my quest to know more. I hear gun proponents express a dislike for big government. They stress individual liberties over the collective. For people who live in more socialist countries, it's another obstacle to understanding American gun culture. there are many walls of #guns at the #nraam2017 in #atlanta. #nra #gun #atl @cnn A post shared by Moni Basu (@mbasucnn) on Apr 28, 2017 at 6:25am PDT Near a stairway emblazoned with a giant Beretta, I speak with Derrick Adams. He's a 32-year-old electric lineman from Nottingham, Pennsylvania. He describes himself as part black, part Puerto Rican and part Caucasian. "How many guns do you own?" I ask. "Not enough," he replies. He picked up his first Glock when he was 22, and his first shot shattered a whole bunch of stereotypes. "People look at guns as this evil tool whose job it is to kill," he says. "They're not at all that. They are about protection." Adams believes that if all law-abiding citizens were armed, crime would drastically go down. He tells me that Chicago would not have such a high gun homicide rate if good folks in the inner cities were armed to fight "thugs and gangs." "Stop looking to government to help us. They are not our parents," Adams says. Liberals in America who want more gun control, says Adams, want to keep minorities and poor people dependent on government. Gun control started after slavery ended and was a way to keep black people disarmed, he says. "You idiots," Adams says, referring to all people of color. "It was invented to suppress you." He looks at me as though to say: You should know better. Again, I think of colonialism in my homeland and how the British passed strict gun control to keep Indians from rising up. Fighting tyranny and oppression is something Jaasiel Rubeck considers, too. The 29-year-old wife and mother from Columbus, Ohio, immigrated to this country from her native Venezuela when she was 6. People who live under authoritarian regimes should all understand the need to own a gun, she tells me. Rubeck's words remind me of a friend from Iraq who wished she could own a gun during Saddam Hussein's rule. After he was overthrown, she slept with an AK-47 under her pillow at the height of the insurgency. She has always spoken of her love-hate relationship with guns. She wants to protect her family, but she is tired of the eternal violence plaguing her land. She wishes now that every gun would disappear from Iraq. #trump addresses #nra supporters in #atlanta. #nraam2017 #guns A post shared by Moni Basu (@mbasucnn) on Apr 28, 2017 at 11:22am PDT What I hear from speakers at the NRA convention, though, is that a peaceful world is a utopian fantasy -- and that the need for guns will always exist. "The NRA saved the soul of America," says Chris Cox, the executive director of the organization. I leave the convention trying to reconcile what I've gathered on this day with the philosophy of nonviolence with which I was raised. I am not certain that vast cultural differences can be bridged in a few hours, but I am glad I got a glimpse into the world of guns. I have much to consider.
Editor's note: Pepper Schwartz is professor of sociology at the University of Washington and the author of many books, the latest of which is "The Normal Bar." She is the love and relationship ambassador for AARP and writes the Naked Truth column for AARP.org. She is also a senior fellow at the Council on Contemporary Families, a nonprofit organization that gathers research on American families. The opinions in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Some revolutions happen in a single day; others over decades. The rise of the voluntarily single woman has been happening in Western societies slowly, over time, concomitant with well-paying jobs, legal protection from economic or physical abuse, reliable birth control and the possibility of fulfilling careers and adventures. Women are marrying at a later age these days, cohabiting with their partners or going in and out of short-term relationships without ever walking down the aisle. Currently, 53% of women over 18 are in the singles column. Put another way, women now have choices that allow them to customize the arc of their lives and some of them find that it is best for them to put marriage aside. Is this natural? Is this bad? Is this cause for alarm? We have long counted on women's sacrifices and the compromises they've made to lift societies all over the world. We are worried that if women delay or forgo marriage, the all-important family unit will suffer. As much as I admire happy couples and families, I think this may be one of the few times in history when so many women could choose from such a full range of life choices without penalty or stigma. Since few people "have it all," why not choose being single if that's the best option? What it comes down to is people get married when it's a good deal. The question is why isn't marriage a good deal anymore? Here are some considerations. 1. A useless husband If a woman is poor and only meets equally poor or poorer men, she's in a tough spot. It is no secret that many women do not choose to marry if the available partners will make their economic situation worse. In some of these cases, even if a woman has a child, she may be better off with government help than a nonworking, noninvolved husband. 2. Success changes everything When a woman is very privileged or highly successful, marriage could come very easily -- or not. Think of the likes of Elizabeth Taylor, who was married eight times. Or Oprah Winfrey, who for personal or professional reasons, is not married. Moreover, a woman doesn't need a husband who is a high-powered corporate attorney if she is a high-powered corporate attorney. Taking advantage of economic and professional opportunities could be undermined by committing to a partner with an equally ambitious, or different, life agenda. This kind of woman may wake up every day to new and exciting challenges and think, "best to wait." 3. Unwilling to make traditional compromises A woman who doesn't want to settle for cooking and cleaning and being the primary parent that society prefers. She is not meeting guys who want the kind of woman she is. 4. The marriage penalty tax Some women are in an income bracket where marriage inflicts economic costs. She would have to pay more taxes if she marries someone who earns approximately what she makes or more. 5. Avoiding cheating men A few years ago when I was in China, I had a conversation with some very beautiful female Chinese TV personalities about their personal life. I asked them why they were single and if they wanted to get married. The three women all said they didn't want to marry because "the men of our class will all expect to have mistresses, and it is better not to marry than have to put up with that." I have no idea if this was an exaggeration or not -- but they believed it. 6. Waiting for the "one" These women wait for the perfect guy, or the guy who they would fall in love with and love them back just as much. If that man doesn't come along, they prefer to go alone. As women get pickier, more factors enter into the marriage equation. They may find someone who doesn't quite go the distance even after years of dating. They cohabit with someone and it doesn't work out. Singlehood, never intentional, becomes a fact. But they will not marry just to marry as their mothers or grandmothers might have. In social psychology, there is a classic theory called "exchange theory." It is a bit cold-blooded, but it predicts that a person's actions will be based on trying to find a balance of give and get. Each person's resources -- of all kinds, including money, looks, background -- are traded back and forth for a "good deal." For example, a "good deal" scenario could be a woman who makes an excellent living pairing up with a man who is a writer and is willing to work at home and be the primary child care person. When women's life choices were highly constrained, they had little negotiating power. They had to marry or were seen as damaged. A few got away with being "free spirits" but usually they were exceptional in wealth or lineage -- and even so, it wasn't easy. It's different now. While most women still want marriage, they don't want it at just any price. They don't want it if it scuttles their dreams. Marriage is not dead -- not by a long shot. It is still, to most of us, the house we wish to build for our love, our lover and our children. But women want to craft a life instead of having it pressed upon them. And that means some of us will be single for a long time, and some of us will be single for life. Read CNNOpinion's new Flipboard magazine Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion
Scott Jennings, a CNN contributor, is a former special assistant to President George W. Bush and former campaign adviser to Sen. Mitch McConnell. He is a partner at RunSwitch Public Relations in Louisville, Kentucky. Follow him on Twitter @ScottJenningsKY . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) A great many Republicans have had their differences with Arizona Sen. John McCain over the years, and some of President Donald Trump's biggest supporters are using the occasion of the release of the senator's memoir to bash McCain in the sunset of his career and life. They take to Twitter to bash a guy who suffered torture for his country, lived a life of public service and consequence, and has the audacity to express his political opinions and preferences on who eulogizes him. You don't have to love John McCain to know this is wrong and, as Jonah Goldberg put it, "grotesque." It is true that those of us who supported George W. Bush over McCain in the 2000 GOP primary found his attacks against Bush to be whiny and irritating. McCain's position and vitriolic statements on campaign finance "reform" were grating, especially when you consider that his legislation did the opposite of reforming the system. It drove money out of the hands of candidates and parties, and into the shadows of outside groups. McCain's legacy on campaign finance, well-meaning as it may have been, is a broken system that he helped to drive fully off the rails. But he has been a loyal American and Republican all his life. He barnstormed the country for Bush in 2000 and 2004. I saw him on the campaign trail for Mitt Romney in 2012. He took on the mantle of Republican nominee for President in 2008, trying desperately to hold the White House for a party whose President was suffering from low approval ratings. Despite his ditching the GOP on a handful of issues (most recently Obamacare repeal), McCain has mostly been a solid citizen in the Senate. He has opposed wasteful spending (a Republican staple), and even now, serving under a President he clearly despises, votes for the Trump agenda 83% of the time, according to 538's "Trump Tracker." That's a better "Trump Score" than Susan Collins, Mike Lee and Rand Paul, and nearly 22 points more than the tracker would expect based on the 2016 outcome in Arizona. JUST WATCHED McCain voices concerns about the US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH McCain voices concerns about the US 02:36 Another 538 article pointed out that McCain stuck with the GOP on party-line votes 87% of the time, just below the average of 91% for all Republicans. He has a lifetime voting score from the American Conservative Union of nearly 81% over 35 years of service. McCain has been a maverick at times, but he will long be remembered as a mostly loyal and conservative Republican who sometimes had differences of opinion and style with other leaders in his party. He was never afraid to fight people in his own party, or in the other one. But it is McCain's attacks on Trump, including those in his new book "The Restless Wave: Good Times, Just Causes, Great Fights, and Other Appreciations," that have some Trump supporters criticizing a man who is dying of brain cancer. They don't like it that McCain reportedly doesn't want Trump attending his funeral, while former Presidents Bush and Barack Obama will deliver eulogies. What do you expect? McCain and Trump don't like each other, and I don't know too many people who want people they don't like at their funeral. JUST WATCHED Trump blasts McCain over health care vote Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump blasts McCain over health care vote 01:10 Despite their political differences, McCain got along with Bush and Obama, and it makes sense for them to eulogize a genuine American war hero who dedicated his entire life to public service. In 2000, McCain ran as the anti-establishment insurgent, trying to upend the Bush apple cart. But today, at the sunset of McCain's life and career, it is another group of insurgents, Trump and his supporters, who cast McCain as an unreliable relic, out of touch with the people of Arizona and the Republican Party. They hate his views on immigration and his detestation of Trump's behavior and style. In some ways, Trump pulled off what McCain was trying to do back in 2000. McCain called it the "Straight Talk Express," pulling no punches and offering unprecedented press access. He didn't win but forever absorbed the brand of "maverick" in the process. Trump did the same thing. He ran against the establishment and was the most press accessible candidate in 2016. McCain was, tactically, ahead of his time, while Trump got the timing just right. McCain will be remembered as a war hero, American patriot and public servant who was conservative but unafraid to buck his party from time to time. He will be remembered for clashing with Trump and suffering for it politically among members of his own party. He will be remembered for picking Sarah Palin and later regretting it. He will be remembered for making the campaign finance system worse while trying to make it better. He will be remembered for being entangled in the Keating Five ethics scandal. He will be remembered for being tortured, and then leading the opposition to certain interrogation tactics during the Global War on Terror. But no matter how you remember him or what you think of him, John McCain has earned the right to speak his mind and to have anyone at his funeral he wants. Feel free to disagree with McCain, but lay off the vitriolic, tribal attacks. He suffered mightily for your right to do so.
(CNN) More than 120 pregnant whales were killed during Japan's annual hunt last summer, a report has revealed, prompting outrage among conservationists. Figures show that 128 of the 333 minke whales caught during the 12-week expedition in the Southern Ocean were female. 122 of them were pregnant. The figures were published in a technical report submitted to the International Whaling Commission and prepared by representatives of the Institute of Cetacean Research, an agency linked to Japan's fisheries ministry. Conservationists greeted the report's findings with fury, calling the statistics "shocking" and condemning the slaughter as "abhorrent." "It is further demonstration, if needed, of the truly gruesome and unnecessary nature of whaling operations, especially when non-lethal surveys have been shown to be sufficient for scientific needs," Alexia Wellbelove, Senior Program Manager at Humane Society International, said in a statement JUST WATCHED Why are we still whaling? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are we still whaling? 02:11 Read More
Issac Bailey is an interim member of The Charlotte Observer editorial board and the 2016 James K. Batten Professor of Public Policy at Davidson College. He was a 2014 Harvard University Nieman fellow and is the author of the forthcoming book "My Brother Moochie: Regaining Dignity in the Midst of Crime, Poverty, and Racism in the American South" (Other Press). Follow him on Twitter: @ijbailey. The views expressed are his own. (CNN) Ben Carson is the perfect representation of the Trump administration. So far, his time as secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development has been defined by a combination of incompetence and indifference to the realities faced by the poor and working class. HUD is charged with trying to ensure equal access to housing in a country that for generations implemented policies allowing for racial discrimination. Yet, under Carson, HUD is walking away from the agency's mission to fight discrimination and is instead prioritizing the more nebulous "self-sufficiency" standard The most recent example of his failed stewardship? His decision to make 32-year-old Andrew Hughes his chief of staff. Hughes' most notable accomplishments seem to be having done months of work on the Ben Carson and Donald Trump presidential campaigns and being an Uber driver. It's a fitting decision given that the poor and elderly who need to rely upon HUD may soon be forced to find housing in their cars. In past administrations -- Democratic and Republican -- the chief of staff was someone who had the requisite skills and experience to understand housing policy and how the levers of government worked. Hughes isn't that person. And, worse yet, he isn't the first person in Carson's department to be granted an important position for which he seems poorly qualified. Lynne Patton's resume was notoriously thin when she was appointed to head New York's federal housing office; she was previously a party planner for Trump. Then again, previous administrations seemed to have had a different agenda than this one. The Obama administration, for example, was committed to reversing the legacy of racial and income segregation. Carson's priority, on the other hand, has seemingly been rolling back civil rights and other hard-won protections implemented during the previous administration -- instead of making the lives of the already-struggling more bearable. Carson has suspended the rules requiring local governments to address patterns of racial segregation. He is also reconsidering a 2013 rule about when disparate impact claims -- a legal tool to challenge actions that have a discriminatory effect even if overt bias isn't apparent -- can be used against those involved in housing decisions. Carson tried , but was prevented by the courts, to make it harder for recipients of housing vouchers to use them in wealthy neighborhoods, even though the program was designed to give poor and marginalized families a chance at better schools. He also put on hold fair-housing investigations into a local ordinance in Hesperia, California, that makes it more difficult to fight housing discrimination against parolees and those with criminal records. Carson and HUD officials downplay the changes -- claiming this is just a typical shift made from one administration to the next. But these changes are far more drastic than that. Most of the decisions flow in one direction, giving benefit of doubt to those in power -- local and state government officials and large corporations -- and taking away protections from the powerless. It's an odd move by a man who says he just wants the best for poor people and is attempting to "give poor people a way out of poverty." Had Carson understood housing policy better when he agreed to this job, he'd know that one of the causes of the 2008 Great Recession was large banks targeting black and brown borrowers for risky loans, even when they qualified for more stable ones. He'd know that half a century after the murder of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. -- and also of the Fair Housing Act, which was designed to eliminate discrimination in housing -- racial divides are just as stark as they were in the 1960s, and in some cases worse. He'd know that many problems the poor and marginalized face stem from discriminatory housing policies that effectively keep in place segregation -- affecting everything from school performance to how likely a young person is to end up in prison. He'd know that former prisoners who aren't able to secure stable housing in stable neighborhoods and good jobs are more likely to reoffend. Or maybe he knows and just doesn't care. Before Carson was appointed HUD secretary, he reportedly was thinking about turning down any potential offers to serve in Trump's Cabinet. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook "Dr. Carson feels he has no government experience, he's never run a federal agency," Carson adviser Armstrong Williams told the Hill newspaper after Trump was elected. "The last thing he would want to do was take a position that could cripple the presidency." But Carson hasn't crippled Trump's presidency. He's simply doing on a national scale what the Trump family was accused of doing in the 1970s when it was sued by the Justice Department for racial discrimination. They settled with DOJ by signing a consent decree, with the Trump business promising not to discriminate in the future -- though not admitting guilt of previous wrongdoing. Carson has long had a prominent place in American history books because of his pioneering work as a neurosurgeon. His story was inspirational because he reached such great professional heights after overcoming discrimination and poverty as a child. But his story must now be rewritten, since he is now playing a prominent role in stacking the deck against the next "Dr. Carson."
White, Working-Class and Worried is a CNN partnership with the Kaiser Family Foundation - an extensive survey of white, working-class Americans and voters, who form a backbone of the support for Donald Trump. Watch Anderson Cooper 360 and CNN.com for reports throughout the week. Welch, West Virginia (CNN) Each morning for the last 65 years, 93-year-old Ed Shepard has walked to work to open up the Union 76 service station, here in rolling hills of West Virginia coal country. When he looks out his window, he can see a sweeping mural that shows what life in Welch used to be like. A United Cigars shop on one side of the street, a Western Union sign on the other. Lines of cars stretch into the distance. Even Shepard himself -- who is as much a fixture of Welch as any of its buildings -- is in the mural, a blue cap perched on his head. "There wasn't ten square feet in this town that didn't have a successful business in it, a business of every kind," Shepard said in an interview. "No matter what you wanted or needed, you could buy it in Welch." Those were better days. Now it's a place, people who live here say, that politicians use as a convenient photo op and that the federal government has left behind, a sentiment common among white working class voters. 56% of non-college educated whites say the government in Washington does not represent them, according to a new poll conducted by CNN and the Kaiser Family Foundation. And two-thirds say they are dissatisfied with the influence people like them have on politics. Locals referred to the once-bustling Welch as "Little New York," but now the town and the county around it are slowly slipping away. The storefronts are empty. The buildings and houses here are now crumbling with decay. Shepard used to take checks to the bank each Monday -- sometimes $1,000, sometimes $1,500. He hasn't had to do that in four or five years he said, because he hasn't had one customer in that long. "It's depressing to watch the population disappear, the businesses disappear and the activity stop. Back in the 50s, 60s and 70s, it was hard to walk up the sidewalk because there was so many people. Now you walk up the sidewalk and there's nobody." -- Ed Shepard, 93. "It's depressing to watch the population disappear, the business disappear and the activity to stop," he said. "Back in the 50s, 60s, 70s, it'd be hard to walk up the sidewalk because there was so many people. Now you walk up the sidewalk and there's nobody." McDowell County's population is just 19,835 down from 100,000 in the 1950s. That decline is expected to continue. West Virginia University economists estimate that McDowell will continue to lose residents at a rate of 1% each year. Some, particularly in rural areas like McDowell County, say the government's at fault. Rural working class whites are more likely to blame the federal government for their economic problems than their urban counterparts. Seven in ten say the federal government deserves all or most of the blame for the economic problems facing the working class, in the CNN Kaiser survey, compared with half of urban working class whites. That could explain the appeal of a candidate who is not only intent on upsetting the political system, but has at times seemed bent on breaking it down to start over again. On this winding drive through the hilly roads of Appalachia, there are few signs signaling support for Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump, but Trump is expected to do well here. West Virginia hasn't voted for a Democrat since Bill Clinton's second term. Much has changed in the last 20 years and now Clinton is seen as squarely at odds with the coal industry, which is the bedrock of Welch and the surrounding county. No matter who wins in November, some residents of West Virginia coal country don't believe anything will change their lives. They have come to accept, as Gary Hall, a 55-year-old Trump supporter put it, "that next year is going to be worse than the last year" no matter who is president. "When we have a natural disaster in the country, everybody shows up. We're the same as a natural disaster without the effects, without the storm, or without the flood. ... Hopefully we can get it turned around and hopefully we'll get some attention from Washington." -- Cecil Patterson, 51 (left in photo) Hall said he felt alienated from the political process, but rejected the idea that he and other whites without college degrees were angry and flocking to Trump as a result. The CNN/Kaiser foundation survey suggests that's the case, too. Just 19% of working class white voters described themselves as angry about how things are going in their own lives. "We're conditioned that there's really nothing you can do about it. The only thing outrage and protesting and stuff does is cause bad feelings," he said. "People are just resigned to have what they have. The ones that want to leave, the ones that can leave and want to leave leave. Everybody else just stays here." Rural working class white voters like Hall are more likely to say America's best days are behind us and that their children will be worse off than they are today. In the CNN/Kaiser survey, 58% of rural working class whites say America's best days have come and gone and 57% say their children will be worse off compared with less than half of urban working class whites who say the same. West Virginia is one of the nation's largest coal-producing states and McDowell County used to produce more coal than any county here. But there's been a steep downturn in coal jobs across the state due to competition with cheaper natural gas, tougher environmental rules and mechanization, and this county has seen the worst of it. "We don't have another option," said Cecil Patterson, 51, who spent his life working in the coal industry and serves on McDowell County's county commission. "Once we shut down the coal industry here there's nowhere to go, there's nothing else to do, there's no other jobs available." The unemployment rate here was 12.5% in July, compared with 4.9% nationwide. When work dries up, people leave, Patterson said, doing anything they can to make ends meet. "She [Hillary Clinton] wants to shut down the coal industry -- that's gonna put me out of a job. Wouldn't be real smart to vote for somebody who's gonna put you out of a job." -- Ryan Barnette, 34 "You can't just go to the next county here, you have to leave the state. A man tries to go out of the state, maintain an apartment, try to keep his home back up here, it just puts such a struggle on the family." Trump won McDowell handily in West Virginia's May primary, taking 91.5% of the Republican vote -- his largest margin of victory in the country. But even before becoming his party's presumptive nominee the week prior, he was the favorite to win in the state. During a campaign rally in West Virginia in May, Trump promised to bring back lost-coal mining jobs but hasn't said how he'd pull it off. Many people here were skeptical that he could -- but credit him with giving them hope. And animosity toward Clinton runs high. Even months later, people still repeat -- verbatim -- the comment Clinton made that her climate change policies would "put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business." Many people here with ties to the coal industry -- virtually everyone here is linked to it -- see Clinton's comments about coal disqualifying and Trump as their only answer. "It ain't gonna be Hillary," said 34-year-old Ryan Barnette, his face black with soot, minutes after leaving the mine. "She wants to shut down the coal industry -- that's gonna put me out of a job." "Our main industry has been coal. When you don't diversify and have other means, then the coal miners are laid off, either they stay and have no money to spend, which trickles down everywhere... Or they eventually have to pack up and move so that they can find work." -- Elaine LaCaria, 54 Elaine Lacaria -- known here as Laney -- was a lifelong Democrat and voted for Clinton eight years ago. But now things have changed. "I won't vote for her again. No, never," she said in an interview in the dress shop she opened in 2008, the same year then-Senator Barack Obama was elected president. In the eight years since then, she said things have gotten worse. Jobs have dried up, people are leaving and not coming back and addiction has ravaged this community and others near it. "When we drive anywhere you see small town USA is no more," Lacaria said. "This has affected all of us, not just the coal fields." Lacaria said she'll never vote for a Democrat again and this year, she'll support Trump. "When I see Trump as a businessman, I think he will help our county definitely, but I think he will help our country as a whole. He knows what he's doing." Patterson, who also said he plans to vote for Trump due to his support of the coal industry, said the same. "When we wake up the morning after an election, our roads are going to be getting worse, our sewer, our water, our schools are failing, Patterson said. "They want us to keep paying more and we keep getting less, so there's my take on where we're at the day after the election." "We look different, we talk different, and people seem to think we don't exist. But if you're hungry, we'll split our last meal with you. If you're cold, we'll get you some kind of--to stay warm. We give everything that we got. And we get nothing back." -- Vira Rose, 69 Others, like 69-year-old Vira Rose, say no politician or government got them in this position. And they don't expect to be saved. Rose, who was one of the first women to work as a mine foreman in the area, owns her own auto repair shop. She once sold new tires, now a stack of used tires for sale sits outside of the shop. People can't afford new ones anymore, she said. "Sometimes I come here at 8 a.m., I get out of here at 8 or 9 at night. Any job comes, you don't turn it down and say tomorrow. If you say tomorrow, tomorrow won't be here. You grab it, you do it -- then you help others," she said. "We're the forgotten tribe." She has no faith in Clinton or Trump. "What am I gonna do? I'm not gonna vote for neither damn one of them," Rose said. "Because there's not much difference, there's really not."
Sao Paulo (CNN) Brazil's President has announced he will concede to truck drivers' demands after a week-long strike that has paralyzed much of the country. Truckers angry at rising fuel prices have blocked major roads across Brazil since May 21, preventing the delivery of goods to supermarkets and gas to petrol stations. Citing concerns about lack of medicine and basic goods, President Michel Temer said Sunday that his government would subsidize the cost of diesel for the next 60 days, exempt empty trucks from tolls and introduce a minimum freight fare for truckers. Temer said diesel prices at the pump would be cut by 0.46 reals per liter (roughly $0.13) for the next two months. He said prices would increase just once a month after that. Prices had risen to 3.6 reals ($0.98) per liter before the strike, with five increases in the week before truckers took action. The government would pay state-run oil company Petrobras the difference in price, Temer said in a televised address from the presidential palace in Brasilia. Negotiations On Thursday it had looked like the strike action was drawing to a close after Brazil's government said it had reached an agreement with truckers' unions to eliminate some taxes on diesel, while Petrobras agreed to lower the price by 10%. But truck drivers continued to block roads, saying they wouldn't move until Brazil's Congress had approved the tax changes and Temer subsequently announced that the Armed Forces would be deployed to clear the blockades. The government said its security forces were escorting fuel trucks to key infrastructure such as hospitals. JUST WATCHED Why are oil prices rising? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are oil prices rising? 01:15 "The government was always open to dialogue and we were able to sign an agreement with the leaders of this movement," Temer said Sunday. "We spent the week trying to meet the truckers' grievances, but we were also worried about all the Brazilians that faced difficulties these days." "We understand the natural difficulties truckers endure in their jobs, but we became increasingly worried by what was happening in the health sector. We received incredibly worrisome statements here regarding the lack of medicine and basic goods," he continued. The measures announced by Temer Sunday were published in the government's Official Diary. According to web portal G1, this was one of the prerequisites made by the truckers' union in order to end the strike. "If it's in the Official Diary, our recommendation is for the concessions to be accepted," Autonomous Freight Transporters Union (Sinditac) president Carlos Alberto Dahmer told G1. Political Affairs Minister Carlos Marun said that subsidizing diesel would cost the federal up to 10 billion reals (roughly $2.7 billion). Truck drivers block a road near Rio Friday. Country paralyzed The strike has choked Brazil's economy, with Sao Paulo, Brazil's largest city and financial hub, declaring a state of emergency Friday. Many of the city's petrol stations had already run out of gas by the weekend and there were long lines at others, journalist Shasta Darlington reported on CNN's "Quest Means Business" program from Sao Paulo Friday. The city cut its bus services by half Saturday and expected to stop them entirely by Monday night as fuel stocks ran out, a city hall spokesperson said. Trash collections in the city had also been suspended. Local governments in many other cities reduced public transport to conserve fuel. In Rio de Janiero less than a fourth of normal bus services ran Saturday, a city official said. Food in public schools was only guaranteed until Monday, according to Rio's City Hall. Meantime eight airports run by state airports authority Infraero were without fuel late Sunday, the operator said in a statement. Hospitals are operating with limited inventory and as of Saturday only six had adequate supplies to ensure health care for four days, Marun said, according to a government statement Marun said the President was concerned about the possibility of loss of life and the government was "doubling down on the application of fines against truckers with medical cargo." Trucks sit idle in Brasilia. Gas prices The blockade comes just months before presidential elections set for October. Temer replaced Dilma Rousseff as Brazil's president after she was impeached in 2016 One poll by Datafohla in April suggested 70% of respondents disapproved of Temer's government and just 6% approved of his leadership. Temer has said he is not running for reelection. A number of presidential candidates, from both right and left-wing parties, have also spoken out in support of the striking truckers.
Arkady Babchenko, a Russian journalist and critic of President Vladimir Putin, was pronounced dead from gunshot wounds on Tuesday. One day later, he appeared at a news conference in Kiev. Ukrainian intelligence officials staged his death as part of a special operation to catch the people trying to kill him, said Vasily Gritsak, head of Ukraine’s Security Service. Babchenko apologized to his wife. “I’m sorry for making you live through this,” he said. “I’ve buried my own friends and colleagues many times myself.” Police initially said Babchenko was shot in the back multiple times and was found in a pool of blood by his wife, accusing “the Russian totalitarian machine” of being behind the slaughter. Babchenko had fled Russia for Ukraine earlier this year, saying he no longer felt safe in the country. He’s known for being critical of many of Putin’s policies, including the annexation of Crimea. Russia denied the claims that it was behind Babchenko’s murder, instead using the opportunity to lambaste the security of journalists in Ukraine. “Ukraine is becoming the most dangerous country for reporters,” Russian lawmaker Yevgeny Revenko said. “The Ukrainian government can’t guarantee basic freedoms.”
(CNN) David Letterman and Howard Stern talk about Donald Trump, and what a great guest he was in his pre-presidential days, during "My Next Guest Needs No Introduction." But the most fascinating part of Letterman's latest one-on-one Netflix interview involves their conversation about success, and how both feel their driven commitment to it was toxic to their relationships. It's an old story, and a familiar one. Yet it's still telling to hear Letterman, now 71, and Stern, 64, discuss their personal shortcomings so openly with the benefit of hindsight and the greater sense of introspection that their later years allow, albeit from the perch of nests incredibly well feathered by those careers. Featuring two master broadcasters, the hour is a virtual master class on how to create television out of two guys just sitting there talking. But what really stands out are their shared experiences, and the almost confessional tone, which offers a sort of primer about how it's possible to be both rich and famous as well as selfish and miserable. " allowfullscreen> "I don't know how my first wife could have been married to me at this point, because I was all in on my career," Stern says, recalling his first marriage and his consuming pursuit of radio stardom. "And that's not a way to be in a relationship. ... It's very hard to think of even your children's well-being in relationship to what I'm doing." Letterman cites a similar dynamic during his decades as a late-night host, saying, "I went through a version of the same thing where all I cared about was being on television, to the exclusion of everything else that I now realize is actually life." Read More
(CNN) More than half of the world's children are at risk one or more of three threats -- conflict, poverty and discrimination against girls -- according to a new report from Save the Children. The report, published ahead of International Children's Day on June 1, estimates 1.2 billion children are exposed to at least one of those risks. Of those, 153 million children are at extreme risk of all three. "More than half the world's children start their lives held back because they are a girl, because they are poor or because they are growing up in a warzone," the report said. "Early marriage, child labor and malnutrition are just some of the life-changing events that can rob children of their childhood." A displaced Syrian child at a temporary camp in the village of Ain Issa on April 28, 2017. Singapore first, Niger last Read More
EDMONTON — An Alberta judge has granted an extradition order for a man facing terrorism charges in the United States after he allegedly helped pay for his relatives to travel to Syria. Abdullahi Ahmed Abdullahi, 33, is accused of being part of a January 2014 jewelry store robbery in Edmonton to fund the Syrian trips. "I am satisfied that the test ... is met,"Court of Queen's Bench Justice John Little said Thursday. "And I am satisfied that Mr. Abdullahi is the person sought by the United States. "I therefore order his committal into custody to await surrender." Abdullahi Ahmed Abdullahi Abdullahi shouted in court after the decision came down, but his comments couldn't be heard in the public gallery. His family and friends were visibly distraught. The order still needs to be approved by the federal justice minister and Abdullahi will be given the chance to make his case to the minister. He also has 30 days to appeal before he would be turned over to U.S. authorities. Allegedly conspired to 'provide support to terrorists' In a U.S. indictment, Abdullahi was charged with conspiring to provide — and with providing — material support to terrorists. Officials allege Abdullahi conspired with Douglas McCain, the first known American who died fighting for the Islamic State, and others in the U.S. and Canada "to provide support to terrorists engaged in violent activities in Syria." Abdullahi, also known as phish or fish, was indicted in California in March 2017 by a federal grand jury and arrested by Canadian authorities last September. The U.S. indictment alleges that Abdullahi conspired with McCain and others to provide personnel and money to people engaged in terrorist activities in Syria, including killing, kidnapping and maiming people. It alleges Abdullahi robbed the Edmonton jewelry store to finance the travel of McCain and others, then wired the money. 'Double hearsay': defence lawyer Abdullahi is to appear in Edmonton provincial court Aug. 9 on the armed robbery charge. Federal Crown prosecutors, on behalf of the U.S. government, argued Abdullahi should be extradited to face the terrorism charges. They said he and others used draft emails in a shared account to communicate with each other. "It was being used by ISIS fighters in the U.S. to travel to Syria," Crown prosecutor Stacey Dej told the court. Dozens of the draft emails have been recovered from a computer, she said. Dej said two witnesses also have been able to identify who wrote the emails by their nicknames. His defence lawyer, Akram Attia, had argued there was no way to prove when the emails were written and who wrote them. "This is double hearsay," he told court. "I know of no case where that would be allowed in this country. I don't think it would be allowed in the U.S. either." Attia acknowledged that the test is lower for an extradition hearing, but he suggested it isn't that low. The judge noted in his decision that the test for committal to extradition is lower than a typical court case. I do not determine Mr. Abdullahi's guilt on a standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. Justice John Little "This hearing is not a trial," said Little. "I do not determine Mr. Abdullahi's guilt on a standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. "I do only a very limited weighing of the evidence. I do not measure whether the evidence would withstand a more rigorous analysis as to its reliability." Some of the evidence expected in the U.S. case includes: a co-conspirator who will testify that Abdullahi provided the money to ISIS fighters; the widow of McCain overhearing a conversation where Abdullahi told her husband he would use Western Union to send money from a jewelry store robbery; records from Western Union; and, Internet service provider records showing the common email.
The mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico, tore into President Donald Trump after a study released this week estimated Hurricane Maria’s death toll was at least 70 times higher than the government’s official count. Carmen Yulín Cruz blamed the Trump administration for not doing more to save the 4,645 people estimated by Harvard University researchers to have died as a result of last year’s historic storm. The government’s official death toll remains at 64. “It was about creating a narrative that made him and his administration look good,” Cruz said in an interview on Wednesday with the Latino Rebels radio program. “And many in the political class in Puerto Rico looked the other way, disregarded the truth and played into his narrative, that he gets a 10 out of a 10” for the federal response to the storm. “No, Mr. President ― you get 4,645 souls that were lost on your watch because the federal government that you are supposed to be in charge of was incapable of doing its job,” she said. The Harvard study, published Tuesday in the New England Journal of Medicine, found a lack of access to medical care was the primary cause for an increase in mortality rates in the roughly three months after Hurricane Maria made landfall on Puerto Rico on Sept. 20. Researchers said their 4,645 estimate is “likely to be conservative” and the death toll that can be tied to the hurricane may actually exceed 5,000. But the high death toll is just one of the study’s alarming revelations, such as the lingering effects of the storm on the island’s older population. Never forgotten! Never again! pic.twitter.com/9vym7egCid — Carmen Yulín Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) May 30, 2018 Trump repeatedly downplayed Hurricane Maria’s disastrous toll on Puerto Rico in the months following the storm. During an October visit to the island, Trump said Hurricane Maria wasn’t a “real catastrophe” like 2005′s Hurricane Katrina, which left over 1,800 dead in the Gulf Coast area. At the time, Puerto Rico’s official death toll for Hurricane Maria was 16. “Sixteen versus literally thousands of people,” Trump said in October. “Everybody around this table and everybody watching can really be very proud of what’s been taking place in Puerto Rico.” During the same trip, he cavalierly bizarrely tossed paper towels to local residents and lamented how much federal money was being spent on the disaster relief efforts. “I hate to tell you, Puerto Rico, but you’ve thrown our budget a little out of whack — because we’ve spent a lot of money on Puerto Rico and that’s fine, we’ve saved a lot of lives,” Trump told local officials at an airport hangar. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters President Donald Trump faced a backlash for tossing rolls of paper towels like basketballs to people at a hurricane relief distribution center at Calvary Chapel in San Juan, Puerto Rico, last October. Cruz had begged the federal government to increase rescue and relief efforts, accusing Trump of turning his back on fellow Americans. Trump responded by calling Cruz “nasty” and claiming her accusations were politically motivated. “It took too long to understand the need for an appropriate response was NOT about politics but about saving lives,” Cruz tweeted Tuesday in response to the Harvard study. During an appearance that same day on “CBS This Morning,” Cruz demanded the government be held accountable for “the negligence that allowed those lives to be lost.” “These people were killed by the neglect of two governments,” Cruz said. “One: the Trump administration that was very dismissive of the value of our lives. And two: those in Puerto Rico that favored political positioning rather than telling the truth.” "The negligence that allowed those lives to be lost, needs to be accounted for," San Juan mayor @CarmenYulinCruz told @DavidBegnaud regarding the estimated death toll from Hurricane Maria. https://t.co/XKnNKSVYdD pic.twitter.com/1V68xUD6pT — CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) May 30, 2018 Trump has remained noticeably silent about the Harvard study on Twitter. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said during a Wednesday press briefing that Trump “takes the situation in Puerto Rico extremely seriously.” “We’ve been supportive of [Puerto Rico Gov. Ricardo] Rosselló’s efforts to ensure full accounting and transparency, and those who have suffered from this tragedy deserve nothing less than that,” Sanders said. “We’ve responded with the largest [Federal Emergency Management Agency] operation in history,” she said. “And we’re going to continue to work with the people of Puerto Rico and do everything we can to be helpful.”
President Trump's first public reaction to the cancellation of "Roseanne" is a shot at Disney CEO Bob Iger. What he didn't say is just as notable. He didn't say anything critical of Roseanne Barr's racist and conspiratorial tweets -- the comments that got her fired on Tuesday. Instead, he tweeted this on Wednesday: "Bob Iger of ABC called Valerie Jarrett to let her know that 'ABC does not tolerate comments like those' made by Roseanne Barr. Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC. Maybe I just didn't get the call?" Trump and Barr have been supporters of each other for years. Trump called her up when "Roseanne" drew record ratings for its premiere in March. So that's why there was speculation that he might weigh in on the show's demise. Rather than distancing himself from Barr's racist remarks, Trump jumped right into the argument about whether she was subjected to a double standard. White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters Wednesday that she is not aware of any new calls between Trump and Barr. "No one's defending what she said," Sanders said when asked about Trump's reaction to the controversy. She said Trump's anti-ABC tweet was "simply calling out media bias." Here's the context: Jarrett was one of the targets of Barr's Twitter tirade early Tuesday morning. Barr compared Jarrett to "Planet of the Apes" and the Muslim Brotherhood, then claimed she was just joking. The tweet was widely condemned as racist. Jarrett, one of the most prominent African American women in politics, was one of President Obama's top aides. That's partly why Barr attacked her. Barr frequently uses her Twitter account to deride Democrats. When her attack caught fire on Twitter, Iger and his deputies moved quickly to cancel the show. It is true that Iger called Jarrett and told her about the decision to cancel "Roseanne" shortly before it was announced on Tuesday. "He wanted me to know before he made it public that he was canceling the show," Jarrett said in an interview on MSNBC. Trump picked up on that comment in his tweet on Wednesday. He is implying that he is the victim of a liberal media double standard. There are additional political overtones to the tweet because Iger seriously considered a 2020 run against Trump. He deliberated about it with friends and financiers last year, but ultimately decided against a run. Iger and Jarrett did not immediately respond to requests for comment about Trump's tweet. By weighing in, Trump is once again at odds with his own press secretary. On Tuesday, when Sarah Sanders was asked for Trump's view about the cancellation, Sanders said "that's not what the president is looking at. That's not what he's spending his time on. And I think that we have a lot bigger things going on in the country right now, certainly that the President is spending his time when it comes to policy." Earlier in the day on Wednesday, Barr reacted to ABC's decision by tweeting apologies and retweeting dozens of her fans. Some of the retweets promoted conspiracy theories and anti-ABC grievances. Barr continued tweeting on Wednesday afternoon. She retweeted Trump's comment. "I'm not a racist, I never was & I never will be," she wrote. "One stupid joke in a lifetime of fighting 4 civil rights 4 all minorities, against networks, studios, at the expense of my nervous system/family/wealth will NEVER b taken from me." Barr's defense left out any rationalization for the other racist and outrageous tweets in her past, including ones from earlier in the week.
Story highlights Frida Ghitis: Outrage over Cecil trophy kill went viral, spawned outrage backlash from those who say moral compass is skewed What about human suffering in Zimbabwe, Syria, among refugees? Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for the Miami Herald and World Politics Review and a former CNN producer and correspondent. Follow her @FridaGhitis. The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers. (CNN) Of all the stories you heard in the news in the past few days, which one moved you the most? Which outraged you, brought you to tears, led you to action? Which did you talk about with your friends, post on Facebook, discuss on Twitter? If the answer is the killing of Cecil the lion, you are in lots of company. Frida Ghitis By now, it seems, most people agree that the killing, apparently for fun, of the majestic lion by a Minnesota dentist visiting Zimbabwe was a perplexing act of pointless cruelty and cowardice. It spawned millions of posts on Facebook and Twitter -- a kind of outrage tsunami. Cecil, who was apparently well-known and loved in the natural park where he lived in Zimbabwe, died in a most unnatural way, lured from his home and slaughtered. (The dentist, now perhaps fearing for his life, has apparently gone into hiding.) The intensity of the backlash over the trophy killing has triggered a counter-backlash. Why, some are now asking, do people care so much about the death of a lion when so many human beings are suffering and dying? The surge of sorrow for a dead lion, they say, when compared to the relative quiet about other wrongs, reveals a moral flaw in our humanity, a defect in our moral compass. Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours For decades, the majestic wildlife found across Africa has been a major draw for tourists wanting to catch a glimpse of roaring lions, towering elephants and rare rhinos. But wildlife tourism should always be a case of look, but don't touch. For several African countries, wildlife is more than a tourism treasure. It's also a key source of revenue. A recent The brutal killing of Cecil , Zimbabwe's famous black mane lion, has caused outrage around the world, highlighting once more the persistent threats faced by endangered animals.For decades, the majestic wildlife found across Africa has been a major draw for tourists wanting to catch a glimpse of roaring lions, towering elephants and rare rhinos.But wildlife tourism should always be a case of look, but don't touch.For several African countries, wildlife is more than a tourism treasure. It's also a key source of revenue. A recent study by the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNTWO) compiled figures from government and tour operators throughout the continent to assess the state of the wildlife tourism industry. It found that the industry contributes 80% of international travel sales to the continent, a large percentage of the $34.2 billion African tourism industry. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours Watch: Wildlife tourism is booming in Africa One of the best performing sub-sectors within the wildlife tourism industry is gorilla treks, such as in Bwindi Forest National Park , Uganda. Permits to visit a gorilla family cost between $500-700, meaning the forest, home to roughly half the world's wild mountain gorillas, generates approximately $15 million annually. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours The Serengeti-Ngorongoro southern circuit, a key migration route, is another tourist hotspot. It receives 300,000 visitors a year, spending $500 million in total on trips to the 300-kilometer stretch between Arusha and Serengeti, Tanzania. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours Of the countries who submitted data, 14 generated a total of approximately $142 million in entrance fees to protected parks, bolstering the coffers of various conservation initiatives. Around half of operators contribute to anti-poaching projects, and governments are taking steps to counter the elevated threat in recent years. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours UNTWO worked out that across the continent, the average wildlife tour lasts 10 days, has six participants and costs $433 per day. It also found that France, the UK, the U.S., Germany and Portugal are the biggest long-haul markets for Africa. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours There's more to wildlife tourism than safaris. Although 96% of operators questioned did offer them, bird watching tours, whale watching and a variety of treks also came under the UNWTO's census. One of the most popular non-safari activities in Zambia is a visit to Victoria Falls -- 30% of tourists will make the trip to the 1,708-meter wide falls, the " largest curtain of water in the world. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours Globally there were 12 million wildlife tourism trips in 2013 (the last full year of data available), and numbers are rising 10% annually, suggesting positive signs for the industry -- should it counter the existential threats to it, such as "the dramatic increase in poaching and illicit trade of wildlife products since 2005," which "threatens to undermine conservation achievements," according to UNTWO. Hide Caption 7 of 7 This view is bringing together an unlikely collection of suddenly like-minded critics. From the left and the right, there is a growing sense that the outpouring of grief for Cecil is unseemly.
Originally published on Motherly By Erin Leonard As a child therapist, the most common complaint I hear from parents is, “he just won’t talk to me.” Feeling estranged from your own child is painful, and it has implications for the child. Research indicates the most important predictor of a child’s emotional and psychological stability is the closeness of the parent/child relationship. If a child is not opening up when they are upset, the relationship may not as close as it needs to be. There are two habits that parents’ routinely engage in that shut down communication and drive a child away: negating feelings and mistaking sympathy for empathy. Sympathy vs. empathy When a child is truly in distress because they feel hurt, disappointed, worried, or angry, they desperately need their parent. Yet, often, parents don’t want to see their child feeling negatively, so their first instinct is to tell their child not to feel the way they do. Before they think, statements such as “don’t be disappointed” or “don’t be mad” escape. This results in the child feeling ashamed of how they feel, compounding the hurt. Moreover, the knowledge that their parent does not understand, leaves them feeling alone, which is detrimental. Basically, the child learns that opening up about how they feel makes them feel worse. Statements to avoid: Don’t worry. Don’t feel that way. Don’t be disappointed.. Don’t be like that. Don’t be mad. You are too sensitive. A better idea is to empathize. Honor their feeling. Feelings are never wrong, it’s what kids do with feelings that can get them in trouble. Examples of empathy include: That’s a big worry. I get it. You are upset. I would be too. You have every right to feel disappointed. I felt like that when I was your age. You are mad. I understand. You have every right. It hurts to see someone do something you want to be able to do, but can’t yet. You are mad. I’m sure you have a good reason. I want to hear about it. After you give them a solid dose of empathy, the child feels understood and connected to you, which means they immediately feel better, and will want your help in problem solving. In many cases, the empathy is all they need to feel better. Simply knowing their parent understands, allows them to feel secure and forge ahead. In addition, just because you empathize with how your child feels, does not automatically mean you are condoning bad behavior. For example, my son came in the door angry last week. He slammed the door and threw his coat down. I said, “You are mad. I don’t know why, but you probably have a very good reason, and I want to hear about it, but you can’t throw your coat. Go pick it up.” After he picked up his jacket, he immediately came to me and told he was upset about conflict he got into with a friend. Empathy wins Here’s how it works. Empathy creates good Vagal tone in a child’s brain and immediately calms them. After the empathy, they settle down and can logically think through problems with you. They also feel understood and close to you which allows them to forge ahead with a sense of security. No parent wants a child who feels sorry for themselves, plays the victim, or is over dramatic, and maybe that is the fear that prevents a parent from being empathic, however, honoring their child’s feelings is actually what prevents a sense of entitlement or a victim mentality in a child. Sympathy, on the other hand, disrupts any chance of emotional attunement and tempts parents to enable. The parent saves and rescues their child from negative feelings instead of helping them work through difficult feelings. For example, on the way home from hockey practice one night my eight-year-old son Jimmy said to me, “Mom, I was the worst one tonight. I’m the worst one every night. I barely got put in.” Now, I have two choices, the sympathetic response or the empathic response. 1. The sympathetic response: “Poor guy, Im going to call your coach and talk to him. I don’t think it’s fair that he benches you for most of the practice.” 2. The empathic response: “That hurts, kiddo. It hurts to feel like you’re the worst one. I get it. I’ve felt like that a lot in my life. It stinks. Keep at it. It will get better.” In essence, the sympathetic response, tempts us to enable and ask that the rules be changed or concessions be made for our child, which teaches them to play the victim. Also, it requires no emotional investment on the parent’s part because the parent becomes the powerful saver and rescuer which strokes the parent’s ego. It is the easy way out. The empathic response requires the parent shift from how they feel, to how the child feels. It’s emotional attunement. It’s the parent remembering how it feels to be the worst one at something, so they can relate to their child. It’s selfless and it puts the child first, emotionally. When there is emotional attunement, the child feels understood, and connected to you, which allows them to feel secure and more able to forge ahead and try again. Empathy creates a rugged work ethic and resilience in a child. The child will thrive on adversity instead of breaking down when negative things happen. Empathy creates brave and strong human beings. Stay close to your child. Empathize and empower. The reward will be priceless. More from Motherly:
(CNN) The nation's premier federal program that provides work for people who are severely disabled is mired in widespread corruption, financial fraud and violations of the law, numerous sources tell CNN. And instead of helping the severely disabled find work, the taxpayer-funded agency is at times allowing jobs to be taken away from the disabled, the sources say. AbilityOne, along with the nonprofit agency that manages its program for the severely disabled, SourceAmerica, are being investigated by authorities for illegal operations, financial fraud, mismanagement, operating in violation of the law, steering of contracts, and possibly obstruction of justice. Several inside sources tell CNN the program is among the worst cases of its type they've ever seen in a federal agency. CNN has learned the U.S. Department of Justice has begun its own investigation into the various allegations. In addition, at least four separate inspectors general offices have active investigations into AbilityOne and SourceAmerica. The OIG from the General Services Administration, Department of Defense, the Veterans Administration and the State Department are among those investigating; their investigation is being led by the State Department IG. The AbilityOne program was first created with ambitious, altruistic goals by President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Congress in 1938 to help give jobs to the blind. The AbilityOne program funnels about $3 billion per year of taxpayer money to fund contracts for goods and services across the country. For a company to get a contract with AbilityOne, 75% of that company's work must be performed by blind or severely disabled employees, who cannot work in a normal job. But CNN has learned that as many as half the companies contracting with SourceAmerica under AbilityOne may be operating in violation of the law, without enough severely disabled employees, according to sources with knowledge of the program. There are no such allegations of wrongdoing with AbilityOne's contracts for blind people. What this means is the program responsible for making sure severely disabled people are being hired with taxpayer money through federal contracts is not enforcing or following the law, according to numerous inside sources with knowledge of the organization. AbilityOne is run by a commission made up of presidential appointees. While they must approve all contracts, sources tell CNN they are essentially a "rubber stamp," for the referrals sent to them by SourceAmerica, which essentially operates independently with contracts for the severely disabled. So, one key allegation is that SourceAmerica, a nonprofit agency with virtually no oversight other than AbilityOne, largely decides how roughly $2.3 billion in U.S. taxpayer money is spent, according to numerous sources. "The contracts are now being funneled to a very small group of 10 large companies that are getting way more than their fair share," said former congressional investigator Rich Beutel, who now lobbies for companies in the industry, including one that's suing SourceAmerica. Beutel and numerous other sources tell CNN the staffers who are essentially handing out federal contracts at SourceAmerica are heavily influenced by top officials there, and those top SourceAmerica officials are often connected to the very businesses that get the contracts -- sometimes even in top leadership. Several lawsuits have been filed in recent years accusing AbilityOne and SourceAmerica of awarding contracts not on the basis of merit, but rather through unfair influence by decision-makers who have interest in the outcome. "So that you have actual advisers and board members in these private organizations who are themselves business owners; and so they can award themselves potentially contracts worth hundreds of millions of dollars," said Beutel. "It's a perfect setup for waste and abuse," he said. CNN Investigations Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. The agency denies those accusations. "No one involved in making award recommendations to the commission is employed by an organization seeking those contracts," read the statement sent to CNN. "We want to be very clear, SourceAmerica board members are not involved in the evaluation of contract bids or recommendations to the AbilityOne Commission." Disabled losing jobs It took Randall Love years to find work after a tumor on his spine left him nearly paralyzed in 2008. The IT professional struggled through physical therapy to even be able to move in his home, and he can't travel to hold down a regular job. He finally found work at home through an AbilityOne contract, and it changed everything for him. "It gives me ... a sense of being worthwhile, a sense of being able to contribute to things, a sense of being able to help others," said Love. "I get up just like everybody else in the morning. And I go to work, too. I'm not disabled. That's why I say it's the cure for me," he said. But Love and numerous other disabled people were left jobless when the company that hired them, NTI, lost its AbilityOne contract to a company named Peckham Industries. NTI officials appealed the contract award multiple times detailing what they call "overwhelming evidence" that Peckham would "not be in compliance" with the 75% requirement under law. Mary Joan Willard, the executive director of Boston-based NTI, blames the government for not having a system of checking whether a company is compliant. Willard and NTI have sued the U.S. government, and by extension, AbilityOne and SourceAmerica, in the contract dispute. Peckham disputes NTI's allegations, saying in a statement to CNN, "We are now put in a position of being a victim of false allegations by an unsuccessful bidder. ... The fact is that Peckham EXCEEDS the 75% requirement with a proven record of employment of severely disabled about 80%. Peckham has consistently maintained the required ratio for persons with severe disabilities served through the AbilityOne program." When CNN asked for proof of the employment numbers, Peckham declined, citing ongoing litigation. CNN has been told by multiple sources there is no real verification process in AbilityOne or Source America to determine whether severely disabled workers are being hired in the proper ratio and the contracts are operating legally. "Their definition of 'verified' is they look at a piece of paper that Peckham has signed saying, 'We are in compliance ... these people are severely disabled.' And that, to me, is not verification," said Willard. Meanwhile, workers like Love are furious they lost work. "I tell my kids this all the time -- that you always must do the right thing," said Love. "Doing the right thing ... doesn't mean that you put 16 disabled people out of work. Doing the right thing also means ... that you don't replace them with people who don't have disabilities." Numerous sources with direct knowledge of AbilityOne and Source America contracts tell CNN there are many companies contracting through AbilityOne and Source America across the country that do not meet the government's rule of having a 75% severely disabled workforce, made up of people who cannot perform other jobs. "The majority of the individuals that were being hired were not severely disabled," one inside source told CNN. This source worked for years as a hiring manager inside one of the big contractors that gets many AbilityOne contracts, through SourceAmerica. This person knows the program very well, but asked CNN not to reveal their identity because they still have close contacts in that world. The source cited numerous examples of contracts operating illegally and out of compliance. "I would say in my experience in the AbilityOne contracts that I worked on, maybe 10 to 20 percent were truly severely disabled; they truly did not have the ability to find gainful employment elsewhere. Everybody else -- they were capable of finding employment elsewhere," the source said. What the source witnessed would be illegal, because the contracts would be out of compliance. Asked if anyone in the program ever actually checked to objectively verify if the contracts were operating legally with the right number of severely disabled people, the anonymous source told CNN: "Not that I'm aware of. I mean, we tracked numbers for our own record-keeping to ensure that we met that 75%. But as far as any type of documentation being turned over to AbilityOne to actually show, 'Hey, these individuals have a severe disability,' I'm not aware that that ever took place." "As long as you have a report that says 75% of my staff is disabled, there's no other checking," the source said, adding the program is both a "ripoff" of taxpayers and also an affront to disabled people who want and need to work in the special contracts. CNN heard similar allegations from numerous sources across the country. SourceAmerica says they conduct on-site visits, but according to their statement: "SourceAmerica staff does not determine compliance; only the U.S. AbilityOne Commission is authorized to do so." Even on the rare occasions when companies are cited by AbilityOne officials for not being in compliance, nothing happens, numerous sources told CNN. In recent years, CNN has learned, at least 80 letters were sent to contractors from AbilityOne officials stating the contracts were in violation of the law and out of compliance, and demanding they submit explanations. But only about half the companies even bothered to respond or explain why they were operating illegally. Have a tip? The Office of Inspector General has a tip line for anyone with information about AbilityOne or SourceAmerica. It is oighotline@state.gov or 800-409-9926. What's more, none of the companies operating illegally were disciplined in any way, according to sources. And these letters were only sent to the violators that self-reported their low numbers out of compliance, or where the small AbilityOne team tasked with overseeing the enormous program managed to discover violations. CNN has also learned there are many contracts operating across the country that have not been seen by any AbilityOne compliance officials in years and even decades in some cases, despite the fact they are supposed to be seen regularly. And sources tell CNN the legally required documentation on severely disabled workers is rarely completed and turned in to AbilityOne officials by contractors. online catalog. AbilityOne workers also do many services with the contracts, such as answer phones at call centers, janitorial cleaning and laundry work, often at government buildings or on military bases. The contracts are awarded for all kinds of products that are made through the program and can be seen in the comprehensiveonline catalogAbilityOne workers also do many services with the contracts, such as answer phones at call centers, janitorial cleaning and laundry work, often at government buildings or on military bases. While CNN has learned there are at least four inspectors general now with active investigations, none of them is officially tasked with oversight of the program or agency, and none has complete authority over it. They are pursuing it because of concerns that have been raised about specific contracts under their jurisdiction.
Now in its fourth year, the Comedy Wildlife Photography Awards continue to bring viewers those goofy moments caught on camera that makes it seem like some animals are just like us. The entries for the 2018 competition are pouring in, from an embarrassed rabbit, “dancing” polar bears and a fur seal who is apparently having a really bad day with some penguins. We can’t wait to see what ends up winning the competition. See some of the latest goofy animal entries below.
Arkady Babchenko, the Russian journalist and Kremlin critic reported to have been shot dead in Kiev on Tuesday, has turned up alive in Ukraine. Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday, Vasily Gritsak, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, said the death had been staged in order to catch those who were trying to kill him. Gritsak said the authorities had received information about a Russian plot to kill Babchenko and had managed to prevent it by faking the journalist’s death. “I’m still alive,” Babchenko declared at the press conference after her took to the floor to applause and gasps. “I know that sickening feeling when you bury a colleague. I’m sorry you had to go through this, but there was no other way.” His wife, who reportedly found his body in a pool of blood in their flat, was unaware of the operation and thought he had been killed.
(CNN) The headline on Sean Hannity's website blared the news: "BLUE WAVE CRASHING: Poll Shows Americans Side with TRUMP on Economy, Security." The piece on hannity.com was actually just a summary of a broader piece written by the Washington Examiner's Paul Bedard -- which carried the same headline and the same message: Republicans (and Trump) are actually in much better shape heading into the November election than people believe. That conclusion was based on polling conducted by Zogby Analaytics, a firm run by pollster John Zogby, and shared exclusively with Bedard. Here's the spine of the argument made in it: "When asked 'Who do you trust more?' on the economy, it was Trump over Democrats 41 percent to 35 percent, and on national security the president again led, 40 percent to 38 percent. ... Added to the poll's other findings that support for Democrats is down among millennials, blacks, and so-called Walmart and NASCAR voters, it would appear that Trump is back in favor among voters and that the ballyhooed 'Blue Wave' is dissipating." Read More
Washington (CNN) While Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's recent meetings with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un were billed primarily as diplomatic missions, the face-to-face encounters have also served as valuable intelligence gathering opportunities that are helping shape US officials' understanding of the reclusive dictator and guide ongoing talks between the two countries. A series of constantly updated US intelligence assessments have determined that Kim will come to the negotiating table with his own red lines revolving around a single calculation: How much, if any, of his nuclear weapons program does he give up while still assuring the survival of his regime and his singular position in power? These intelligence assessments, largely led by the CIA's Korea Mission Center, are examining all issues that could impact Kim's thinking and approach to the negotiations, including the impact of US-backed economic development how Kim can maintain the loyalty of his top military commanders. The issue of Kim's concern for his safety and survival was even addressed by President Donald Trump in public comments when he guaranteed Kim's safety if he agreed to denuclearize. The US intelligence community has been working to understand what makes Kim tick since he took power in 2011 -- gathering details related to his psychological makeup, leadership style and personality in order to support the policymakers tasked with dealing with North Korea's nuclear weapons program. And that effort has only been amplified in recent weeks as US officials continue to lay the groundwork for on-again, off-again talks between Kim and Trump in Singapore on June 12. Despite Trump's threat last week to call off the summit , the White House has indicated that preparations are still under way. Representatives from Washington and Pyongyang have been dispatched in recent days to conduct various meetings, and in his most significant gesture so far, Kim sent his former intelligence chief and close confidante Kim Yong Chol to New York to meet with Pompeo. Pompeo meets with Kim Yong Chol in New York, Wednesday, May 30. Even after Trump made his cancellation announcement, Pompeo has continued to work on preparations for a potential summit. Defense Secretary James Mattis has also continued to publicly emphasize diplomacy led by Pompeo. Those familiar with Pompeo's thinking have said that his meeting with Kim Yong Chol will set some of the terms and agenda for a potential summit -- but most importantly Pompeo loyalists believe the meeting is a sign that he is the senior US official, short of the President, that Kim is willing to work with. A photo posted to Pompeo's official Twitter account showed the North Koreans dining on a meal of "steak, corn and cheese." If Pompeo is included at the summit table, his role will include ensuring both Kim and Trump keep to the agenda and do not get unduly distracted by their rhetoric, one US official said. "Secretary Pompeo has spent more time with the 'living God' than any other American ... (Kim) has been sheltered from foreign view very deliberately up until now," Nick Eberstadt, American Enterprise Institute scholar and adviser to National Bureau of Asian Research, told CNN. While sources have relayed various rumors about Kim to intelligence officials over the years, Eberstadt said the US can be most confident in assessments regarding North Korea's "objectives because those haven't really changed between three generations of Kims." On the same page? While US intelligence officials have determined Kim is unlikely to completely surrender his nuclear program as part of a negotiation with the US, Trump has laid out a red line of his own -- saying any summit must include a guarantee that North Korea's weapons can no longer threaten the US or its allies. But a series of US intelligence assessments have concluded that while Kim could give up some weapons including warheads and missiles, he may not be willing to give up his capabilities to regenerate his program. That would include keeping scientific, engineering and technical capabilities and personnel which would be seen by Kim as his insurance policy to ensure he could stay in power, officials said. "He is not going to do anything that allows him to become vulnerable," one official told CNN. He also could decide to keep some hidden weapons inventories, officials acknowledged. So far, US officials say, the Kim regime hasn't taken any steps on denuclearization that could not be readily reversed. They said the May 24 destruction of underground tunnels to test nuclear devices was a "serious gesture." But it "doesn't foreclose further testing" at other locations, one official said. US satellite imagery recorded technical equipment and gear being removed from the site prior to the destruction of the tunnels, three US defense officials say. "They are not going to give up anything valuable," one official said. In addition the US has preliminarily identified other potential sites where the North Koreans could dig new underground tunnels for testing. JUST WATCHED CNN reporter in N. Korea: Trump's letter struck the right tone with Kim Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN reporter in N. Korea: Trump's letter struck the right tone with Kim 02:47 Kim a 'rational actor' with his position largely set Intelligence assessments have concluded that Kim is coming to the table with his position largely set with regards to what he will give up and what he plans to retain or possibly hide away. It's not clear what security guarantees the US could give Kim that would convince him to give up his entire program, including those scientific, engineering and technical capabilities including underground sites that could shield key items. That idea is largely supported by the US intelligence community's assessment that Kim is a "rational actor" motivated by the survival of his own regime. Pompeo, who took a leading role on the North Korea issue even before he was confirmed as secretary of state, has had direct contact with Kim on two occasions -- providing unique insight into the isolated leader's personal makeup that also supports the latest findings from the intelligence community. JUST WATCHED Pompeo "delighted" to bring home Americans Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pompeo "delighted" to bring home Americans 04:55 "My personal view is that the assessment hasn't changed: he's a rational actor who has consolidated power; he's in control," said Ambassador Joseph R. DeTrani, who previously served at the Department of State as the special envoy for Six-Party Talks with North Korea. A former intelligence official specializing in Asia who maintains contact with current officials told CNN: "I'm sure (CIA) would stick by the line that Kim just wants to die peacefully of old age." The CIA did not respond to CNN's request for a comment. But Pompeo himself has said that the meeting not only supported the intelligence community's existing assessment, but that Kim's behavior indicated he was sincere about pursuing a path toward denuclearization. "I did get a sense that he was serious," Pompeo said. "The economic pressure that has been put in place by this global effort that President Trump has led has led him to believe that it is in his best interests to come to the table and talk about denuclearization," he added. Currently the highest-ranking US administration official to meet with Kim, Pompeo's observations support the idea that Kim is not irrational or crazy -- an image that has been perpetuated at times by the media, some lawmakers and even President Trump himself, according to Bruce Klingner, a former deputy division chief for Korea at the CIA who's now a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation "He was painted as someone who the US could not count on to not start a war," Klingner said. "We are seeing some of that now as people realize that Kim, contrary to perception, is not crazy or irrational." Value of direct contact North Korea's history of isolation has traditionally forced US intelligence agencies to utilize second-hand information gathered through interviews with individuals who have had direct contact Kim during his life. Analysts try to put together a profile of a leader based on readouts from people who have met with them and reading about them to get a sense of their psychology and how they make decisions, Klingner said. With an isolated leader like Kim, intelligence is rarely collected directly from the source, making Pompeo's contact so valuable. "Having Pompeo in a room with Kim provides direct contact and offers insight into Kim's mannerisms, how capable he is as a leader, and how much he relies on others," according to Klingner. "Having direct access to someone should provide a lot better insight," he said. Pompeo is not specifically trained to interpret body language indicators or other subtle details that may have presented themselves in these meetings, but he was accompanied by intelligence officials who were taking note of these cues, a source familiar told CNN. Two US officials have told CNN that Kim was very straightforward, professional, calm and on top of his brief in his meeting with Pompeo, adding that he knew and could discuss the issues in detail. And one source briefed on the matter told CNN that it was clear to Pompeo that Kim understands how to present himself as a fairly normal politician. But while those who meet with Kim often determine he is not necessarily insane, Klingner warned that the difference between those misconceptions and the impression Kim gives off in person can also lead to an overreaction. "When someone meets with Kim, they often come back sort of in awe -- realizing that he is not the crazy guy in the basement -- and with the conclusion that the US can deal with him," he said. "But due to the fact that they often go into the meeting with a misconception of Kim based on caricatures from outside intelligence community, the perceptions often shifts from one extreme to another," he added. Pompeo, however, has expressed a sense of cautious optimism about Kim's intentions. Even after Trump threatened to cancel the scheduled summit last week, Pompeo said he was "hopeful" discussions could get back on track, adding there was "little doubt" in his mind that Kim understood the scope of what the US was asking for with regards to the permanent denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. He has also cautioned that North Korea has made and broken promises in the past. "President Trump has made clear we are going to work to get a meeting set up, the two of them will meet. In the event it fails, respectfully, President Trump will walk away and the pressure will remain but in the event we reach a resolution it would be a wonderful thing for the world," Pompeo said last week after Trump threatened to cancel the summit. One source with knowledge of the situation told CNN that while some progress has already been made to this point, there is still a general understanding within the administration that the North Korean regime remains unpredictable -- as it has been for decades. And despite Pompeo's assurances that he believes Kim is serious about wanting to negotiate, some within the administration remain deeply skeptical about North Korea's intentions -- specifically their willingness to give up their nuclear weapons, the source said. Trump the wild card It remains unclear as to how Trump is personally preparing for the potential sitdown with Kim, but he has told advisers he's confident in his ability to sway the North Korean leader in person. But the President's push for a face-to-face meeting with Kim is raising concerns that he may disregard the vast intelligence resources provided on Kim in favor of leaning on his own instincts. An intelligence profile of Kim is provided for Trump in his daily briefing, according to DeTrani, but it remains unclear as to whether the President regularly reads intelligence reports provided to him. "That profile includes intelligence related to Kim's personality, negotiation tactics, personal history and potential weaknesses so that the President might be able to anticipate certain moves once they are in the same room," DeTrani said. Ultimately, intelligence analysts are trying to enable policymakers to make the most informed decisions possible, but "at the end of the day, you can lead a horse to water but you can't force someone to read the briefing," according to Klingner. "Trump has thrown out the usual diplomatic playbook and the concept of bureaucratic timelines," Klingner said. "Traditionally, the US would not deploy a president to negotiate terms but to sign the agreement once the details were in place." "Trump doing the opposite, implementing a top-down approach," he added. "He's not going to go through tons of background materials or meetings with experts but instead, as he wrote in Art of the Deal, goes with his gut."
(CNN) Here's a look at the life of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Personal: Birth date: October 21, 1949 Birth name: Binyamin Netanyahu Father: Benzion Netanyahu, a historian Mother: Cela (Segal) Netanyahu Marriages: Sara Ben-Artzi (1991-present); Fleur Cates (1981-1988, divorced); Miriam Haran (divorced) Children: with Sara Ben-Artzi: Avner and Yair; with Miriam Haran: Noa Education: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, B.S., 1974 and M.S., 1976 Military service: Israeli Defense Forces, 1967-1972, Captain Religion: Jewish Other Facts : Leader of the right-wing Likud Party. Is known throughout Israel by the nickname "Bibi." Spent his teenage years in the United States; went to high school in Philadelphia. First Israeli prime minister to be born after the state was founded in 1948. Netanyahu's brother, Yonatan, was killed in action in 1976 while leading a mission to rescue Israeli passengers on a hijacked Air France plane. Netanyahu organized two international conferences on ways to combat terrorism, one in 1979 and another in 1984. Timeline: 1967-1972 - Serves in the Israeli Defense Forces in the elite commando unit Sayeret Matkal. 1976-1978 - Works in the United States for Boston Consulting Group. 1982-1984 - Deputy Chief of Mission at the Israeli Embassy in Washington. 1984-1988 - Israel's ambassador to the Israel's ambassador to the United Nations. 1988 - Returns to Israel and wins a seat in the Knesset, Israel's parliament. 1988-1991 - Deputy foreign minister under Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. 1991-1992 - Deputy Minister in the prime minister's office. 1993 - Is elected the Likud party chairman. June 1996-July 1999 - Prime Minister of Israel. September 1996 - Has first meeting with Has first meeting with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. October 23, 1998 - Arafat and Netanyahu sign the Wye Memorandum, an interim accord, exchanging land and power to secure Israel from political violence. 1999 - Following his defeat in the elections, Netanyahu resigns from the Knesset. 1999-2002 - Works in the private sector. 2002-2003 - Minister of Foreign Affairs. 2003-2005 - Minister of Finance. August 2005 - Resigns in protest over the plan to withdraw Jewish settlers from Gaza and return their land to Palestinian control. December 2005 - Is elected leader of the Likud party. August 2007 - Is re-elected. February 10, 2009 - After the election, the results remain unclear as to who will become prime minister, Netanyahu or chief rival After the election, the results remain unclear as to who will become prime minister, Netanyahu or chief rival Tzipi Livni. Both make claims to the position. February 19, 2009 - Wins backing from Israeli parliament. February 20, 2009 - Becomes the prime minister-designate and begins working on the formation of the new government. March 31, 2009 - Is sworn in as prime minister. May 4, 2011 - Denounces the reconciliation agreement signed by Fatah and Hamas in Egypt and calls on Abbas to "immediately cancel the reconciliation deal with Hamas and choose the path of peace with Israel." May 24, 2011 - Addresses a joint meeting of Congress. He says that he is prepared to make "painful compromises" for a peace settlement with the Palestinians. However, he repeats that Israel will not accept a return to its pre-1967 boundaries. June 13, 2012 - Israel releases a 153-page report criticizing Netanyahu's handling of a raid against a Turkish aid flotilla to Gaza in 2010, where nine Turkish activists were killed. September 27, 2012 - In an address to the UN, Netanyahu urges the General Assembly to draw "a clear red line" to stop In an address to the UN, Netanyahu urges the General Assembly to draw "a clear red line" to stop Iran from developing nuclear weapons. October 9, 2012 - Calls for an early election after failing to agree on a budget with his coalition partners. October 9, 2012 - Israel's parliament votes to dissolve itself and schedules an election for January 22, 2013. January 22, 2013 - According to media exit polling, Netanyahu's Likud Beitenu party wins 31 Knesset seats in the election. The Yesh Atid party, a new centrist movement, comes in a surprising second place with at least 19 seats. March 24, 2013 - Apologizes to Turkey for the 2010 raid on the Gaza-bound flotilla Mavi Marmara. November 24, 2013 - Tells reporters that the Iran nuclear deal that world leaders reached with Tehran is a - Tells reporters that the Iran nuclear deal that world leaders reached with Tehran is a "historic mistake." April 27, 2014 - Tells CNN that Israel cannot negotiate with the government of Abbas while it is backed by Hamas. Tells CNN that Israel cannot negotiate with the government of Abbas while it is backed by Hamas. "I call on President Abbas: Tear up your pact with Hamas." September 29, 2014 - Warns delegates at the UN General Assembly not to overlook threats posed by Iran and Hamas in their zeal to defeat Warns delegates at the UN General Assembly not to overlook threats posed by Iran and Hamas in their zeal to defeat ISIS. December 2, 2014 - Calls for the dismissal of two members of his coalition cabinet and announces he will call for the dissolution of the nation's legislature. Calls for the dismissal of two members of his coalition cabinet and announces he will call for the dissolution of the nation's legislature. March 3, 2015 - Addresses a joint session of Congress. March 2, 2018 - Netanyahu is questioned for five hours in Case 4000, which alleges he gave regulatory benefits worth up to 1 billion shekels (approximately $280 million) to his friend in exchange for favorable media coverage. This is the third case in which he has been named as a suspect. Police simultaneously interrogate Netanyahu's wife, Sara, at a different location. Netanyahu proclaims his and his wife's innocence in a Facebook video shortly after the interrogations conclude. Netanyahu is questioned for five hours in Case 4000, which alleges he gave regulatory benefits worth up to 1 billion shekels (approximately $280 million) to his friend in exchange for favorable media coverage. This is the third case in which he has been named as a suspect. Police simultaneously interrogate Netanyahu's wife, Sara, at a different location. Netanyahu proclaims his and his wife's innocence in a Facebook video shortly after the interrogations conclude. March 27-28, 2018 - Is hospitalized with a mild viral illness of the upper respiratory system, and released after a series of exams. Is hospitalized with a mild viral illness of the upper respiratory system, and released after a series of exams.
After years of turbulent marriage, former models Arjun Rampal and Mehra Jessia have announced their separation. The couple had been married for 20 years. In a statement released early this morning, Rampal and Jessia said that they were moving on in 'different directions.' The statement said, "After a 20-year-long beautiful journey filled with love and beautiful memories, we would like to share, that all journeys have different paths. We feel that it is time for us to move on to different destinations henceforth. We have always been solid when it has come to us, we will continue to be solid for each other and our loved ones, as we embark upon a new journey." The couple also asked the media to respect their privacy. "Both of us being extremely private people feel strange to be making this statement, but such are the circumstances of our lives. Where the truth can get distorted and lost. We are a family, our love for each other is forever intact and we shall always be there for one another and most importantly, for our children Mahikaa and Myra. We would, therefore, appreciate our privacy through this time. Thank all for their support. Relationships can end, but love lives on. We won't be commenting on this any further," the statement said. Also see on HuffPost:
Story highlights In March of last year, it was announced that polio had been eradicated in India Photographer Elena del Estal couldn't help but wonder about those already living with the disease (CNN) Imagine sitting on a dusty, busy street in New Delhi, crowded with vendors and people running quickly about the market. A woman's lapis-colored sari swishes past you in the golden-colored dusk. You've been here since morning. A tourist extends a hand with a crumpled paper bill. You try to lift your hand to accept, but you can't. The muscles are paralyzed, and your mind can't command them to move. You use your knee to balance your arm and grasp the rupee. Then you use your foot to pick up your bag and head home for the day. This is everyday life for Bipin Kumar. Kumar, known as BK, contracted polio as a child, and he has learned to adapt to how he moves and lives. Kumar has no brothers or father to provide for him, so he moved to New Delhi 10 years ago to pursue the only means of income he could -- begging on the streets. Photographer Elena del Estal was in India last year when the World Health Organization announced that polio had officially been eradicated from the country. It had been exactly three years since the last contracted case. Del Estal was fascinated by this. She couldn't help but wonder about those already living with the crippling effects of this horrible disease. Photographer Elena del Estal She traveled to a small village near Kolkata to meet a little girl who was India's last case of polio. This gave her the inspiration to begin a long-term project on those suffering in a country that's now "polio-free." Read More
Story highlights Jacob Russell's intimate photo essay follows Kurdish female fighters He says the images of these Peshmerga have an important social, political role Cale Salih is a visiting policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. You can follow her on Twitter. The views expressed are her own. (CNN) The image of the braided Kurdish female fighter, donning military camouflage and taking up arms against the militant group ISIS, may have done more to promote the Kurdish cause in the West than anything else in recent years. The Iraqi Kurds have long been pro-Western in orientation, but Western powers have often only moderately addressed their pleas for support, in part out of fear of empowering the secessionist minority to seek independence. Now, with soccer moms in Middle America tweeting photos of Kurdish female fighters, Western governments may find it harder to explain their tepid Kurdish policies to their constituencies. Jacob Russell's sensitive photo essay brings much-needed nuance to the recent proliferation of images of Kurdish female fighters. Photographer Jacob Russell Since last summer, international media -- and Kurdish politicians who have recognized the public relations value of the images -- often objectified these women. Images of smiling young female fighters brandishing weapons with a hint of glamour ("girls with guns," as Russell calls this type of portrayal) tend to portray more of the photographer's assumptions about the woman's emancipation than her actual experiences as a Kurdish woman in combat. Russell consciously avoids this uncomplicated portrayal of female fighters. Read More
Story highlights Someone in the US dies every hour from an alcohol-related crash Tougher state alcohol policies can save 800 lives a year, a study says (CNN) More than a million people were arrested in 2016 for driving under the influence, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That sounds huge, yet it's only 1% of the more than 110 million people who report that they have driven while intoxicated each year. By 2004, all 50 states reduced the legal blood alcohol concentration for drivers to 0.08%, and it has reduced fatalities, the CDC says, but accidents involving an intoxicated driver still kill 29 people a day, which the agency says equals "one death every 50 minutes." "We had made some real progress with age 21 minimum drinking laws and the 0.08% blood-alcohol limit in reducing the total number of alcohol-related crash deaths," said Dr. Timothy Naimi, an alcohol policy expert at Boston Medical Center's Clinical Addiction Research and Education Unit. "But that progress has stalled, and in the last few years, crash deaths related to alcohol are increasing again." Over the years, states have implemented policies to fight that grim reality. Some of those include strictly enforcing legal drinking age and zero-tolerance policies for minors, using sobriety checkpoints, requiring ignition interlocks for DWI offenders and raising alcohol taxes. But those laws vary widely across the United States, and it has been difficult to know just how well they work. A new study by Naimi and colleagues, published Tuesday in JAMA, finds that strengthening state alcohol policies by a mere 10% can reduce the odds of an alcohol-impaired crash fatality by the same amount. Read More
It was Trump’s fifth presidential pardon, following those of other well-known figures such as former Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Arizona, and I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, the former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney. Here’s a look at some of the things D’Souza is known for: D’Souza mocked school shooting survivors. Less than a week after a gunman in Parkland, Florida, slaughtered 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in February, D’Souza openly mocked the surviving children. An Associated Press photographer captured an image of the school shooting survivors weeping after Florida lawmakers voted down a bill to ban assault weapons in the state. D’Souza pounced at the opportunity to ridicule the students: “Worst news since their parents told them to get summer jobs,” he tweeted.
London (CNN) The historic result in Ireland's referendum on abortion has piled pressure on UK Prime Minister Theresa May to reform the law in Northern Ireland, where terminations are still illegal. Members of Parliament from across the political divide have called on the UK government to change the law in Northern Ireland, to bring it into line with the rest of the UK and Ireland. Decision on abortion law are devolved to the Northern Ireland Assembly, but it has been suspended for more than a year, due to a political deadlock. UK Prime Minister Theresa May's government is holding on to power thanks to support from a conservative Northern Irish party that opposes changes to the country's abortion laws. May's government depends on support from the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, a deeply conservative party that opposes any attempt to ease restrictions on abortion. Abortion was legalized in the rest of the UK in 1967, but the liberalization was never extended to Northern Ireland. Read More
The Queen’s announcement means that Markle will become the first ever Duchess of Sussex after she marries Prince Harry. The palace made the announcement just hours before the couple are due to get married at St George’s Chapel in Windsor this afternoon. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have been given the royal titles of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Buckingham Palace has revealed. Prince Harry was also given Scottish and Northern Irish titles, becoming the Earl of Dumbarton and Baron Kilkeel. The palace said in a statement: “The Queen has today been pleased to confer a Dukedom on Prince Henry of Wales. His titles will be Duke of Sussex, Earl of Dumbarton and Baron Kilkeel. “Prince Harry thus becomes His Royal Highness The Duke of Sussex, and Ms Meghan Markle on marriage will become Her Royal Highness The Duchess of Sussex.” The title of Duke of Sussex was last held by King George III’s sixth son Prince Augustus Frederick, who was born in 1773. The title is an historic choice for the royal family, as Markle will become the first Duchess of Sussex. “There has not been a previous Duchess of Sussex as neither of the marriages of Prince Augustus Frederick, on whom the title was conferred in 1801, were recognised,” said Lucy Hume, the associate director of Debrett’s, which has published 150 volumes of the peerage. The last Duke of Sussex died in 1843 at the aged of 70. Although he married twice, his father did not approve of the matches and so his children were not considered legitimate heirs to the title. Reaction on social media was widely celebratory:
Pop star Katy Perry revealed she’s a fan of Pope Francis during a trip to the Vatican on Saturday. The singer praised the pontiff for his “compassionate heart and inclusivity” in an Instagram post for her almost 70 million followers. For her meeting with Francis, Perry brought along actor Orlando Bloom, her on-again, off-again love interest. The pair have reportedly been spotted together a number of times since they announced that they were taking “respectful, loving space” from each other in March 2017. ANDREAS SOLARO via Getty Images Katy Perry looks toward British actor Orlando Bloom as they listen via headphones to a translation of Pope Francis' speech to participants at the Unite To Cure conference at the Vatican on April 28. Perry, the daughter of two evangelical Christian ministers, was at the Vatican on Saturday to speak at a conference on scientific advancements in health care. The three-day Unite to Cure conference is co-hosted by the Pontifical Council for Culture and gathers thought leaders from around the world to discuss the future of medicine. This isn’t Perry’s first brush with the Roman Catholic Church. Since 2015, the singer has been locked in a legal battle with California nuns who are seeking to block the star’s purchase of their former convent in Los Angeles. The Archdiocese of Los Angeles sold the hilltop mansion to Perry, while the nuns tried to sell their former home to a local California businesswoman. A judge invalidated the nuns’ sale in March 2017 since they did not receive permission from the Vatican, a step that is required by canon law. The last surviving nun involved in the property dispute, 80-year-old Sister Rita Callanan, told Fox News earlier this month that she is appealing for a meeting with Francis. Callanan hopes the pope will block the sale, saying that Perry’s lifestyle “has strayed far from any faith.” Below, Katy Perry appears in a video for the Vatican’s Unite To Cure conference with her meditation coach, Bob Roth. The star was listed as a special guest at the Vatican event over the weekend, alongside an Italian archbishop and a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist. TV personalities Dr. Sanjay Gupta, Dr. Mehmet C. Oz and Meredith Vieira also spoke at the event. Perry was invited to speak about how a practice known as Transcendental Meditation has helped her gain control over her anxiety and stress. “I noticed before I started meditating that I started to short-circuit a little bit,” she said during a presentation with her celebrity meditation teacher Bob Roth. “I knew that I had to take care of my mental health and my mind, which is the greatest asset of my body besides my heart. I knew I had to protect it.” Perry said the “stillness” she’s found with meditation is “beyond anything I’ve ever experienced.” “It has helped a lot with my anxiety,” she said. “Instead of having to turn to prescription [drugs], I’ve been able to turn to this.” Watch Perry’s presentation at the Vatican health conference below.
Jerusalem (CNN) Israel has carried out dozens of airstrikes on targets in Gaza in response to what it called the biggest barrage of rocket and mortar fire from the Strip since the 2014 war there. The Israeli Defense Forces, or IDF, said it launched more than 35 airstrikes targeting the militant groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad, after approximately 70 rockets and mortars were fired toward Israeli territory Tuesday morning. At least 25 incoming projectiles were intercepted by its iron dome air defense system, the IDF said earlier in the day. Hamas reported early Wednesday that militant groups in Gaza have agreed to a ceasefire if Israel does the same. In a statement, Khalil Al Hayya, a member of Hamas' political bureau, said that after the intense fighting on Tuesday there had been considerable mediation efforts -- an apparent reference to Egyptian-led talks -- resulting in "a consensus to return to the ceasefire understandings of the Gaza Strip." Referring to Hamas and Islamic Jihad, Al Hayya said, "the resistance factions committed (to the ceasefire), as long as the Occupation does the same," using the militant groups' term for Israel. There was no comment from Israel on the latest ceasefire reports, a senior Israeli official told CNN Wednesday morning. The Israeli military using its iron defense system, which intercepts short-range fire, on Tuesday. The US has called for an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council to "discuss the latest attacks on Israel out of the Gaza Strip by Hamas and other militants," the US Mission to the UN said in a statement. The Mission expected the meeting to take place Wednesday afternoon. "The recent attacks out of Gaza are the largest we have seen since 2014. Mortars fired by Palestinian militants hit civilian infrastructure, including a kindergarten. The Security Council should be outraged and respond to this latest bout of violence directed at innocent Israeli civilians, and the Palestinian leadership needs to be held accountable for what they're allowing to happen in Gaza," US Ambassador to the UN, Nikki Haley, said, according to the statement. Israel said three of its soldiers were injured, two lightly and a third moderately, in the militant fire from Gaza. In one of the day's first barrages, one of the mortars landed in the yard of a kindergarten, which was empty at the time because school had not started. The IDF said Israeli air force planes had attacked targets in seven locations belonging to Hamas and Islamic Jihad, including "six military compounds, munition storage warehouses, naval targets, and terror headquarters." There were no reports of any injuries. Other targets according to the IDF included "a rocket manufacturing workshop, advanced naval weaponry, military compounds Among the targets, the IDF said, were, "sheds of drones used for terror purposes, a rocket manufacturing workshop, advanced naval weaponry, military compounds, training facilities and a munitions manufacturing site." There were no reports of any injuries. A senior Israeli official denied reports a ceasefire deal has been reached between Israel and militant groups in Gaza. Reports in Arab media spoke of a ceasefire agreement mediated by Egypt and due to come into force at midnight. An official from Islamic Jihad told CNN that Egyptian intelligence had asked the militant group to return to the 2014 ceasefire agreement, adding, "We (Islamic Jihad) are committed to it as long as Israel is." The 2014 ceasefire agreement is a reference to the agreement reached at the end of the last all-out war between Israel and Hamas. A second Islamic Jihad official told CNN that "Egyptian efforts reached a ceasefire and a return to the 2014 agreement." The official told Egypt that militants in Gaza did not want escalation with Israel, but said they had the right to defend themselves if attacks continued. IDF says Islamic Jihad responsible In a significant move, Israel singled out Islamic Jihad as the militant group that carried out Tuesday's attacks. In a statement, the IDF said the action was a "severe, dangerous, and orchestrated act of terror, aimed at Israeli civilians and children." Islamic Jihad "follows the ideology of Iran, is funded by Iran, and in today's attack, used munition made by Iran," the statement said. But the IDF statement also repeated Israel's often-stated position that it continues to hold Hamas -- the militant group that controls Gaza -- accountable for everything that happens in the Gaza Strip. "Hamas has the ability to escalate or de-escalate the situation," the statement said. Hamas and Islamic Jihad claimed joint responsibility for the attacks. In a statement issued by the militant groups' armed wings, the Al-Qassam Brigades and the Al-Quds Brigades respectively, the two groups blamed Israel for starting the latest round of aggression and said they had cooperated in launching the attacks because Israel's "crimes could not be tolerated in any way." The statement said that if Israel continued to attack Gaza then "all resistance options remain open no matter what the cost." There have been no reports of any fatalities or injuries arising from Israel's airstrikes from either the Palestinian Ministry of Health or from the militant groups themselves. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had earlier promised a significant military response of "great force." Israel and the United States consider Hamas a terrorist organization. UN chief Middle East envoy Nickolay Mladenov expressed his deep concern at what he called "indiscriminate firing" by Gaza militants toward communities in southern Israel. "Such attacks are unacceptable and undermine the serious efforts by the international community to improve the situation in Gaza. All parties must exercise restraint, avoid escalation and prevent incidents that jeopardize the lives of Palestinians and Israelis," Mladenov said in a statement. Palestinian boat intercepted Also Tuesday, the Israeli navy intercepted a Palestinian boat that set sail from Gaza aiming to breach Israel's naval blockade of the enclave, the IDF said. The IDF said there were about 17 people on board. It said the boat was apprehended peacefully and had been towed to the Israeli port of Ashdod. The confrontations came after weeks of Palestinian protests , known as the Great March of Return, near the fence that separates Gaza and Israel, during which more than 100 protesters were killed by Israeli fire. The protests were intended to highlight Palestinian demands to return to homes and villages they lost during the creation of the state of Israel seven decades ago, and were given a boost by the opening of the US Embassy in Jerusalem on May 14. Israel said the protests were orchestrated by Hamas and presented a security threat to people living nearby.
With just days to go before Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s royal wedding, the internet has a lot of questions. While Harry has captured the world’s attention for decades, Meghan has piqued many people’s interests in the last few years, first for her acting role on “Suits” and her humanitarian work, and now as she prepares to join the British royal family. We wanted to know what exactly the internet was wondering about Meghan. So we mimicked a Google search about the former actress to learn what people were searching in real time and turned to Google Trends to see popular searches over the last year and in the last 30 days. Here are some of the most common questions, keywords and searches associated with Meghan on Google. ‘Meghan Markle father’ In a 2015 essay for Elle, Meghan shared that her dad, Thomas Markle, and her mom, Doria Ragland, met in the late 1970s. Doria was a temp at the studio where Thomas was working as a lighting director for a soap opera. Thomas also worked on the sitcom “Married With Children,” which Meghan brought up in an interview with Esquire in 2013. “I wasn’t allowed to watch it at home,” she said. “I could watch the end credits so I could give the screen a kiss when I saw my dad’s name go by.” The recent surge in searches for Meghan’s dad likely has to do with his probable absence the day of the wedding. On May 4, Kensington Palace confirmed that Thomas would walk his daughter down the aisle. In the weeks prior to the wedding, her dad was photographed preparing for the event by reading books about Britain, exercising and being fitted for a suit. Reports emerged this week that he had staged the photos, and Thomas told TMZ he was responsible. He also said he recently had a heart attack and that he would not be attending the wedding. On Tuesday, Thomas seemed to change his mind, telling TMZ he would be attending, then he changed his story again, saying he had a major heart surgery scheduled and would not be traveling to Britain for the event. Kensington Palace has since put out a statement from Meghan confirming that her father will not attend the wedding. “I have always cared for my father and hope he can be given the space he needs to focus on his health,” she wrote in the statement. She also thanked “everyone who has offered generous messages of support.” Many wondered if Meghan’s mom would walk her down the aisle, but Kensington Palace tweeted Friday that Prince Charles will accompany her. ‘Meghan Markle mother’ Unlike Meghan’s father, her mom has met Prince Harry. The royal and his future mother-in-law were both in attendance at the 2017 Invictus Games closing ceremony. During Meghan and Harry’s first joint interview after their engagement, Harry described Ragland as “amazing.”
(CNN) Life as a 340-pound man had become unmanageable for Eric O'Grey. When he wasn't traveling for work as a salesman for GE, the 51-year-old rarely left his San Jose, California, apartment. He took insulin for type 2 diabetes and about 15 other medications, including anti-depressants and weight-loss drugs. "My entire life was an exercise in minimizing my movement. I just felt miserable all the time," O'Grey told CNN. "It's just amazing how painful it is to be that heavy. Every part of your body hurts. My cholesterol was 400, which is the walking dead level." Eric O'Grey in 2010, before he lost more than 150 pounds. He tried dieting, but nothing worked. Then two things happened seven years ago that inspired him to go see a naturopathic doctor O'Grey had an embarrassing incident on a plane when the flight crew had to wait for a seat belt extension for him before taking off. And he saw former President Bill Clinton on the news talking about his new "plant-based" diet. The doctor recommended a whole foods, plant-based diet like Clinton's. She told O'Grey to throw out everything in his pantry that wasn't on her list. But she also said something that shocked him. She ordered him to adopt a shelter dog and walk him twice a day for 30 minutes. "I said, 'Why a dog? Can I adopt a cat instead?' She said, 'Have you ever walked a cat?'" Meeting Peety Eric went home armed with new recipes and an order to visit his local animal shelter. He went to the shelter with visions of the perfect dog dancing through his head, one that never barked or shed or disobeyed commands. And then the adoption coordinator brought in an obese dog with skin problems. Eric O'Grey with Peety, the shelter dog he adopted. "His head was hung low and he wasn't even looking up. He was just obviously depressed," O'Grey said. "The dog looked up at me with a clear sense of disappointment I'd never seen on any person or creature." The adoption coordinator told him they had a lot in common and both needed to work on the same things. "'You told me you want to lose weight and get outside more," she said. "This dog needs the same thing. So this is the dog that I am recommending for you." O'Grey took the dog home and named him "Peety" after the pup in "The Little Rascals." And they began going on walks. A bond is formed At first, O'Grey could only take his new sidekick about 100 yards before he'd turn back, huffing and puffing and embarrassed. But Peety seemed to like it. "He just looked up at me like he was so appreciative." Their twice-daily walks gradually got longer as Eric began to enjoy his strolls through a neighborhood he'd never explored on foot before. And Peety, with his striking white and black markings, was a great conversation starter. "I called him my weapon of mass seduction because everybody wanted to meet him," O'Grey said. "We would walk around town and these women would say, 'Hey, do you mind if I pet your dog?'" As they lost weight and grew healthier together, the pair developed a tight bond. "I decided to become the person who he thought that I was. And over time really every part of my life improved," O'Grey said. "I was so reclusive and removed from society at the time that I needed a relationship in my life. "It turned on certain emotions in me that I'd never really felt before." From couch potato to marathoner In less than six months, Eric quit all the medications he was taking. He barely knew how to boil water, but he learned how to cook the spicy, vegetarian recipes his naturopathic doctor gave him. JUST WATCHED Plant-based diet and heart health Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Plant-based diet and heart health 00:59 "I really began liking my new foods much better than my old foods," he said. "My palate changed entirely and I started craving spicy foods." And in 10 months, he dropped from 340 pounds to 185 pounds. Eric began going on dates for the first time in 15 years. He had so much extra energy with his leaner body and healthier diet that he joined a club of runners. "I was bouncing off the walls, I just had more energy than I could handle," he said. Over time O'Grey discovered that he loved long-distance running. Today he runs an average of five to six marathons a year. But he's quick to emphasize that his weight loss didn't come from running. Healthy eating and two walks a day with Peety did that. In March 2015, Peety died of cancer. O'Grey calls it the "the saddest day of my life." A new exercise buddy Today O'Grey lives in Boise, Idaho, where he cooks up dishes like vegetarian paella with purple carrots and marinated tofu. His kitchen has large bins of exotic spices. He is an evangelist for three things: cooking with fresh veggies and lots of spices, long-distance running and dog adoption. Five months after Peety died, he found solace by adopting a new exercise buddy. Jake, with his shiny black coat, lean frame and boundless energy, is a good match for the new, healthy Eric. Eric O'Grey and Jake, the dog he adopted after Peety died. Last year O'Grey rekindled a relationship with his high school sweetheart and got married. It's been seven years since he started his journey toward a healthier, happier life. He is 58 years old but he says he feels more like 25. And for others struggling with obesity, Eric offers this encouragement. "It's never too late to turn it around," he said.
Oprah Winfrey, the closest person Americans have to a queen, showed up to Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s royal wedding on Saturday. Naturally, people lost their minds. The media mogul wore a beautiful, blush pink dress by Stella McCartney and added a gorgeous, feathered hat. Friend Gayle King said that the dress was a last-minute purchase, as she’d previously bought one that was too white for the occasion.
(CNN) The occupant of the Quirinale, the presidential palace in Rome, is meant to be above the daily cut and thrust of politics. Sergio Mattarella has been the model of restraint in his three years as President -- until now. Mattarella, a 75-year-old Sicilian and veteran politician, is known as a man of few words. But those he spoke Sunday night have sparked a constitutional crisis and populist outrage. He rejected a key appointment in the Cabinet of Prime Minister-designate Giuseppe Conte: that of euroskeptic Paolo Savona as finance minister. And he was blunt about the reason. "The uncertainty over our position in the euro alarmed Italian and foreign investors," Mattarella said. The rising price of Italian debt would burn through savings and hurt companies. "Membership of the euro is a fundamental choice for the future of our country and our young people," the President added. The man who once described his job as that of a "political referee" was brandishing the red card, and Italy entered its 84th day without a government. Conte -- a lawyer with no political experience -- has now given up trying to form a government, which may be just as well because he was under growing pressure to explain an academic resume that appears to have been embellishe d. But the populist alliance of the Five Star Movement and the League that had chosen him and was on the cusp of power has reacted furiously. Populist parties angered Its outrage is all the greater because Mattarella's politics are left-of-center. Luigi Di Maio, leader of Five Star and rarely short of a colorful phrase, said: "In this country, you can be a condemned criminal, convicted of tax fraud, under investigation for corruption and still be a minister. But if you criticize Europe, you can't be economy minister." He even suggested Mattarella could be impeached, but League leader Matteo Salvini, who once derided Mattarella as a "cattocommunista" (communist Catholic), has for now played down that option. Five Star and the right-wing League won 33% and 17% of votes respectively in the March election, a dramatic breakthrough for insurgent parties Mattarella's decision to block the appointment of Savona gave the financial markets a brief respite -- with the yield on the Italian 10-year bond easing and Milan's stock exchange rising in early trading. But in the longer term, investors will return to themes that have long haunted them: Italy's massive debt (2.1 trillion euros and rising), an inflexible labor market and dysfunctional political system. Plus the prospect of Five Star and the League increasing their vote and implementing an unorthodox combination of tax cuts and higher welfare spending. The doyens of the European Union are also breathing a sigh of relief after Mattarella's intervention. External Affairs Commissioner Federica Mogherini, herself a former member of the Italian Parliament, said she had full trust in Italian institutions, "starting with the Italian President who is the guarantor of the Italian constitution." Their anxiety is understandable. Savona had talked about Italy leaving the eurozone (though he has moderated his views recently) and League leader Salvini had complained: "Italy is not a colony, we are not slaves of the Germans, the French, the [bond] spread or finance." What next? Former International Monetary Fund officials Carlo Cottarelli is Mattarella's next choice to form a government. Mattarella has asked a former International Monetary Fund official, Carlo Cottarelli, to form a government of technocrats. Cottarelli accepted the nomination on Monday . But his cabinet would have to get the approval of Parliament, where the League and Five Star have a majority in both houses. Salvini has already raised the stakes, warning other conservative parties such as Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia against supporting Cottarelli. "If Berlusconi votes Cattarelli, goodbye alliance," Salvini told Italian radio on Monday. For its part, Forza Italia won't vote for any technocratic government, a party spokesman said on Monday. But some in Europe's corridors of power even look to Berlusconi as a safe pair of hands in the midst of this crisis. Berlusconi, who is now 81 and still tainted by innumerable corruption allegations, could emerge as kingmaker in a government comprising moderate parties, but they would have to perform considerably better than they did in March. Eurocrats in Brussels (and no doubt German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron) will be hoping that the League and Five Star's fractious entente falls apart, but the parties' supporters may actually be galvanized by Mattarella's act of "resistance" when Italians go the polls again, which could be in September if no government is formed. The President will not be perturbed by the fireworks he has set off. There are few harder training grounds than the politics of Sicily, where Mattarella cut his political teeth. In fact, his older brother Piersanti was shot by the Mafia in 1980, and died in his brother's arms.
(CNN) Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte has said China will cross a red line if it unilaterally mines the natural resources of the South China Sea, according to the country's Foreign Minister Alan Peter Cayetano. In a speech during a flag-raising celebration at the Department of Foreign Affairs Monday, Cayetano defended the Philippine government from allegations they were taking a soft policy on Chinese militarization of the South China Sea. "(Beijing) said some red lines, we said some red lines ... The President has already said that. If anyone gets the natural resources in the Western Philippines Sea, South China Sea, he will go to war. He said, "Whatever happens, happens." He will go to war," Cayetano said. Tensions in the hotly disputed region have risen in recent weeks, amid reports of the Chinese military landing bombers on their artificial islands for the first time. Under Duterte, who took office in 2016, the Philippines has toned down its rhetoric towards China on the dispute. In April, he publicly declared that he "loved" Chinese President Xi Jinping. JUST WATCHED China and Philippines ties have 'blossomed' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China and Philippines ties have 'blossomed' 03:20 It's not clear whether the latest statement marks a tougher approach from Duterte, who's been accused of being too lenient on the issue. Cayetano said China had been told of the "red lines." Manila is pursuing a joint exploration agreement with Beijing for oil and natural gas reserves in their claimed territory in the South China Sea. Cayetano said during the speech his department was repeatedly told to "file a protest" over Beijing's actions in the South China Sea. "We are taking all diplomatic actions at the right time," he said. But he said it was unfair to single out China for its advanced militarization in the South China Sea. "If there is more than one country militarizing, and it's not only the islands, if huge navies are sailing through the area, is that not militarization?" he said. "So we don't even have a definition of militarization." US Navy steps up Cayetano's speech came as the United States Navy sailed two warships within 12 nautical miles of China's artificial islands in the Paracels, as part of their regular freedom of navigation exercises in the contested waters. It was the first time more than one US vessel had been used in the exercises, according to experts, part of a recent escalation in US opposition to China's action in the region. Beijing claims a huge swathe of territory across the South China Sea, known as the "nine-dash line," from its southern Hainan province all the way down to the waters north of Malaysia. To reinforce its claims to the territory, the Chinese government has built a series of artificial islands in the Paracel and Spratly Island chains, complete with radar facilities and airstrips. The Chinese Foreign Ministry has repeatedly stated the territory in the South China Sea falls under Beijing's jurisdiction, to do with as it pleases. But Beijing's position overlaps competing territorial claims from the Philippines, Vietnam and Taiwan, among others. An international tribunal ruled in 2016, in a case brought by the Philippines, that most of Beijing's stated claims in the South China Sea were illegal under international maritime law. To register its objection to Beijing's growing militarization of its artificial islands, the United States military on May 23 disinvited China from biannual RIMPAC naval exercises. "China's behavior is inconsistent with the principles and purposes of the RIMPAC exercise," a Pentagon spokesman said in a statement at the time.
OTTAWA — Justin Trudeau says he abandoned a proposed meeting with Donald Trump in Washington this week after the White House insisted that the prime minister first agree to a five-year "sunset clause" in a renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement. Trudeau told the anecdote Thursday during a media briefing where he and Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland were outlining the Canadian response to punishing U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Earlier: With the NAFTA talks seeming close to a possible breakthrough, Trudeau says he suggested to the U.S. president last Friday that they sit down with Mexico's Enrique Pena Nieto and talk about reaching a deal. "I stated that I thought we were quite close to reaching an agreement, and perhaps the time had come for me to sit down with the president in Washington in order to finalize the NAFTA agreement," Trudeau said in French. "We already had the bones of a very good agreement for all parties, and I thought it might be opportune for all of us to sit down for a few hours and discuss it." Trump seemed to like the idea, Trudeau said. Then on Tuesday, Vice-President Mike Pence called to say the White House would host the meeting — but on one condition. "I had to agree to a sunset clause in NAFTA, which is to say every five years, NAFTA would come to an end unless the parties decided to renew it, which is completely unacceptable to us," he said. "So I answered that, unfortunately, if that was a precondition to our visit, I was unable to accept — and so we did not go to Washington for that day of negotiations." Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said Thursday that the decision to slap Canada and Mexico with stiff steel and aluminum tariffs was based on a lack of progress in the NAFTA talks.
The loonie dropped by nearly a cent in a matter of hours Thursday morning, amid news that the U.S. is imposing steel and aluminum tariffs on Canada, and a report showing the country's economy is growing more slowly than expected. The U.S. Commerce Department announced Thursday morning that Canada would no longer be exempt from steel and aluminum tariffs imposed on numerous countries by the Trump administration. As of Friday, Canadian steel sent to the U.S. will be subject to a 25-per-cent tariff, while aluminum will be slapped with a 10-per-cent tariff. That news came shortly after a report from Statistics Canada showing growth slowing in the first quarter of this year, to 1.3 per cent at an annual pace, from 1.8 per cent in the last quarter of 2017. The numbers disappointed analysts, who had been looking for growth of around 1.8 per cent. The Canadian dollar dropped by nearly a cent in a matter of hours on Thursday morning. Statistics Canada placed the blame on the slowdown in the housing market. The new "stress tests" for mortgage borrowers have effectively reduced purchasing power by 20 per cent, leading to a slowdown in sales in many markets this spring. Housing investment fell by 1.9 per cent in the quarter, the steepest drop since 2009, when the country was in the midst of the financial crisis, StatCan data showed. The Canadian dollar fell to 77.1 cents U.S. as of 10 a.m. ET Thursday morning, down from a peak of 77.9 cents U.S. earlier in the day. The dropping currency is a sign that traders have lost some faith in Canada's economy amid growing concerns about the country's competitiveness. Canada is the largest foreign supplier of steel to the U.S., accounting for 17 per cent of its steel imports in 2017, according to U.S. trade figures. Watch: Trump to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum from Canada, Mexico, European Union But the weakness didn't begin on Thursday. The Canadian dollar had already hit a two-month low against the U.S. dollar earlier this week, falling with the price of oil. According to analysts, many traders are betting that the U.S. will have higher interest rates than Canada in the months and years ahead, making the U.S. dollar a more attractive investment. Perhaps ironically, a lower loonie actually helps Canadian imports, as it lowers their price on the global market. However, the one-per-cent drop in the loonie on Thursday isn't quite enough to offset the 25-per-cent tariff on Canadian steel. Some analysts see even more weakness ahead for the loonie, due to Canada's declining competitiveness on exports. "Since the turn of the millennium, other than in the post-recession bounce-back, Canada has been an also-ran in the race for global and U.S. markets," CIBC economists Avery Shenfeld and Royce Mendes wrote in the report. "What's been lacking are ribbon-cutting ceremonies at the new facilities — factories, labs and office towers — needed to expand export capacity." The economists noted that a dropping loonie would make Canada more competitive, but "it would be better if Canada had other advantages to support export growth, rather than rely on a weak loonie that makes us less able to spend abroad." If the country doesn't step up its export game, the loonie will drop to around 70 cents U.S. in the 2020s, the CIBC economists predicted. To boost Canada's exports, they suggested "thinner" business regulations, lower corporate taxes and faster government approvals of projects. Also on HuffPost:
(CNN) Nolan Burch 's parents didn't know what West Virginia University knew -- that the fraternity their son was pledging had a history of bad behavior and was about to lose its charter. And Marquise Braham' s parents didn't know what they say Penn State University allegedly knew -- that there were concerns about their son's well-being in the days leading up to his suicide. All three sets of parents now believe they were kept in the dark by institutions they trusted to care for their sons. The Burch, Hipps and Braham families share a common sadness -- their sons are dead, lost to what they believe was hazing-related behavior. They're three of the more than two dozen students who have died because of hazing at U.S. colleges and universities since 2008. Samuel Mason, 20, died in 2010. He was allegedly made to drink a bottle of liquor in an hour while pledging Tau Kappa Epsilon at Radford University in Virginia. Radford University says that chapter of TKE had been found in violation of university policy earlier that year for serving alcohol to minors at a fraternity social event. His family sued and settled with the national fraternity and several of the local chapter's members. Samuel Mason, 20, died in 2010. He was allegedly made to drink a bottle of liquor in an hour while pledging Tau Kappa Epsilon at Radford University in Virginia. Radford University says that chapter of TKE had been found in violation of university policy earlier that year for serving alcohol to minors at a fraternity social event. His family sued and settled with the national fraternity and several of the local chapter's members. Armando Villa , who died after he collapsed during a hazing-related 18-mile hike where pledges were given little water, was trying to join Pi Kappa Phi, which had been cited by California State University-Northridge for not completing the required education programs and holding an unregistered event. Armando Villa , who died after he collapsed during a hazing-related 18-mile hike where pledges were given little water, was trying to join Pi Kappa Phi, which had been cited by California State University-Northridge for not completing the required education programs and holding an unregistered event. Marquise Braham jumped off the roof of a Marriott in Nassau County, New York, in March of 2014 -- the same year that Hipps and Burch died. A source close to the case says there was evidence of alcohol-fueled physical and sexual hazing prior to Braham's suicide. Marquise Braham jumped off the roof of a Marriott in Nassau County, New York, in March of 2014 -- the same year that Hipps and Burch died. A source close to the case says there was evidence of alcohol-fueled physical and sexual hazing prior to Braham's suicide. The body of Tucker Hipps was found in Lake Hartwell on September 22, 2014, the same day the fraternity he was pledging at Clemson University went for a predawn run. The body of Tucker Hipps was found in Lake Hartwell on September 22, 2014, the same day the fraternity he was pledging at Clemson University went for a predawn run. Nolan Burch , a West Virginia University freshman, died in November 2014. His blood alcohol content was measured at 0.493 -- more than six times the legal limit to drive. His death led to the suspension of all Greek activities at WVU and criminal charges against two Kappa Sigma brothers. Nolan Burch , a West Virginia University freshman, died in November 2014. His blood alcohol content was measured at 0.493 -- more than six times the legal limit to drive. His death led to the suspension of all Greek activities at WVU and criminal charges against two Kappa Sigma brothers. And, CNN has learned, through record requests and other sources, that in five hazing-related deaths in as many years, institutions knew there was trouble before the deadly incidents happened. 'Occurrences of concern' Nowhere on West Virginia University's website did it say that Kappa Sigma fraternity had a history of, as the school now puts it, "occurrences of concern" -- specifically referring to the fraternity "behaving inappropriately and hosting an unsanctioned event." The fraternity was also warned about overcrowding in its off-campus residence. Burch, a WVU freshman, died following a fraternity hazing event in November 2014. His blood alcohol content was measured at 0.493, more than six times the legal limit to drive. His death led to the suspension of all Greek activities at WVU and criminal charges against two Kappa Sigma brothers. Two days before the event, where police say Burch and others were blindfolded and forced to drink liquor, the national office of Kappa Sigma notified WVU that it was pulling the charter of the local fraternity chapter. According to a statement given to CNN, the national office directed the local chapter to stop holding functions. But that directive was ignored, according to the fraternity's national office. "They'd been in so much trouble they (the national office) put cameras in the fraternity house," Burch's mother, Kim Burch, told CNN. "The frat actually installed cameras." CNN Investigations Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. Kim and T.J. Burch say their 18-year-old son was not aware of the fraternity's troubles when he decided to pledge. No one told him, and no one told his parents either. "We had no idea, unfortunately, until Nolan passed, that there had been so many problems," Kim Burch said. "It's sad. It's really sad. If we had known this was going on, we would have never let him join this fraternity." 'Unprecedented conduct issues' That same semester, Tucker Hipps' family had no idea that Clemson University was having a serious problem with fraternities. The university was considering a moratorium on all fraternity events, but decided just three days before Hipps died to hold off. It would later come out that Sigma Phi Epsilon violated five rules while Hipps was pledging, including violations related to hazing, harm to person, alcohol and organizational conduct. The university did not answer when asked by CNN if officials were aware of those five SigEp violations prior to Hipps' death. Hipps, 19, died after he fell, jumped or was pushed off a bridge during a predawn run that was against the fraternity's hazing policy. There's an open criminal investigation and the family is suing the university and three fraternity members, who all have denied knowing how he died. His parents say it was not for lack of trying that they did not know about the fraternity's problems. Hipps' father, in particular, was opposed to his son joining a fraternity at Clemson. "His dad was totally against it in the beginning," his mother said earlier this year. Cindy Hipps said she'd done her due diligence, even attending a Greek orientation meeting, which she said put her mind at ease. "After that class I felt better about it," she said. "They said kids in frats have better time management skills, set study times, did it as a group activity. Those kids had higher grade point averages. All the things a mother wants to hear, I heard. I convinced his dad to let him do it. Never once did I ever feel like my child would be harmed in any way." When she checked out Clemson's Greek life website, she saw only positive information, such as links to the average GPAs of each fraternity and sorority. There were two references to hazing policy, but nothing that explained which fraternities or sororities had been cited for violating those rules. But at that time, Clemson officials were concerned about "unprecedented conduct issues over the course of first 3 weeks of school," at several of the school's fraternities, according to internal documents obtained by CNN. After Hipps' death, Clemson added a list of suspended fraternities to its website. If Hipps' already-apprehensive parents had known what was going on at Clemson, they say, they would have pulled their son out of Greek life immediately. Dangers are not myths West Virginia University, Clemson and Penn State are not the only universities that brag about philanthropy, brotherhood and connections for life on their Greek life websites. Most schools list only the positives. Clemson's says "Greek organizations do hold social events, but most of these do not include alcohol." Penn State's goes as far as to say: "For many parents, the fraternity and sorority community reminds them of images of the movie Animal House. There are many myths about the fraternity and sorority community, but the reality is that men and women in fraternities and sororities are committed to their academics, volunteer their time in the community, develop and strengthen their leadership skills, and form a campus network with other fraternity and sorority members." That kind of language outrages Doug Fierberg, an attorney for the Braham family, who recently sued Penn State on the family's behalf and who has handled dozens of university misconduct cases in his career. "The dangers of fraternities are not myths. They are reality," Fierberg said. "The failure by universities to tell the truth about the risks facing students in fraternities specifically related to hazing misuse and abuse of alcohol and other misconduct is the new battleground." "It needs to be changed nationally, because parents and students are entitled to timely and accurate information about the risks they face. And universities have no basis, morally or legally, to withhold that information from the university community," he said. Some universities don't post a hazing policy on their Greek sites. For example, at West Virginia University, it's posted separately on the campus police site. (West Virginia University told CNN it is considering a number of changes, including "better and more timely communication.") Others have listed it in online FAQs, several clicks away from the positives. There are very few universities that list fraternity infractions on their websites, and even when they do, it's often difficult to determine what the infractions really mean. For example, after the 2008 alcohol poisoning death of Brett Griffin, 18, at the University of Delaware, Fierberg sued on behalf of the family and forced Delaware to change its Greek life site to list violations. But the list is vague , just listing things like "multiple violations" or "social policy violations" or "hazing/alcohol" without details of the incidents. "You're looking at best practices," Fierberg said, referring to the University of Delaware site. "What's 'multiple violations'? Were people hurt? Was a student hospitalized? What does it take to get suspended?" Northern Illinois University adopted a policy of putting sanctions on its website after the 2012 death of David Bogenberger, a 19-year-old pledge who was forced to drink alcohol and died. (Twenty-two brothers from the Phi Kappa Alpha fraternity were criminally charged and sentenced to two years of court supervision, plus community service.) Three months after his death, NIU made the change, but the list isn't on the Greek life website -- and it's so hard to find, CNN had to ask the university to point out where it is. (It's on a separate page , one for the Office of Community Standards & Student Conduct.) David Bogenberger The relationship between universities and fraternities can be confusing, since many of them reside off-campus and are chartered by national organizations. But Fierberg said universities violate their duties to students and parents when they create websites about Greek life and only include feel-good information, instead of an accurate and complete picture. And national fraternities are no better. The only major fraternity that lists its violations is Sigma Alpha Epsilon, according to Fierberg, and that's because he sued SAE after the 2008 death of a fraternity pledge at California Polytechnic State University and forced it to list prior violations online. Carson Starkey, 18, died of alcohol poisoning following an event where pledges were forced to drink alcohol, vomit, and drink some more. The SAE chapter at Cal Poly had a prior drug violation before the death, according to Cal Poly. "(Universities) won't give you the full information because it will confirm that what you believe is right," Fierberg said. "Of course you have a zero tolerance policy. (Hazing is) illegal. ... But why wouldn't you tell parents it's still going on?" Fierberg said he suspects that the universities don't even write their own language for these Greek life information sites, since many of them look the same. In fact, a Google search of "myth" and "Greek life" and "hazing" and ".edu" shows nearly identical definitions of hazing on the websites of dozens of schools. Mental health emergencies Marquise Braham jumped off the roof of a Marriott in Nassau County, New York, in March of 2014, the same year that Hipps and Burch died. A source close to the case says there was evidence of alcohol-fueled physical and sexual hazing prior to Braham's suicide. Marquise Braham Fierberg is representing Braham's family in its lawsuit against Penn State. Fierberg claims the university was aware there were "serious concerns" about the "well-being and psychological health" of Braham, 18, in the days leading up to his suicide. Phi Sigma Kappa told CNN it hasn't seen the lawsuit and will not comment. The police chief in Logan Township, Pennsylvania, where the satellite campus he attended is located, told local reporters that Braham had discussed hazing at his fraternity with an aunt and with several friends. The case is under investigation by the state attorney general, but no charges have been filed. The fraternity was suspended. Penn State said it couldn't comment on Braham's death, because of his family's pending lawsuit, but admitted there are times when the university reaches out to parents to notify them of harmful situations. "Emergency in this context includes mental health emergencies as well," university spokeswoman Lisa Powers said in an email. "In general, and in accordance with privacy laws and practices, when we have a student emergency we balance the critical nature/seriousness of the situation with the student's privacy rights as we make the decision to contact parents, or not." Many universities say they alert parents of health risks, such as when a student contracts a contagious disease, but there is no such pattern of reporting when it comes to other potential threats, like hazing. In addition to Hipps and Burch, there is the 2010 death of Samuel Mason, 20, who was allegedly made to drink a bottle of liquor in an hour while pledging Tau Kappa Epsilon at Radford University in Virginia. Radford University says that chapter of TKE had been found in violation of university policy earlier that year for serving alcohol to minors at a fraternity social event. His family sued and settled with the national fraternity and several of the local chapter's members. And the death of Armando Villa, a 19-year-old at California State University-Northridge, pledging Pi Kappa Phi, who died during a hazing-related 18-mile August hike where, his family lawsuit alleges, he and other pledges weren't given enough water. His fraternity had been cited for not completing required education programs and for holding unregistered events, and had just been reinstated after a suspension when the hike took place. A spokesman for the family says his mother, Betty Serrato, didn't know about the suspension and says that if she had, she would have tried to talk her son out of pledging that fraternity. Neither Radford or CSUN has sanctions posted on its website, although CSUN told CNN it is considering putting them online. "It's sad. It's really sad," Kim Burch said. "If we had known this was going on, we would have never let him join this fraternity. I never in my life thought I was sending a 17-year-old kid off to end up two months later gone. It's repulsive. He would have been better off joining the Marines and going to war."
Rihanna and Prince Harry have hung out together a few times. But as one reporter found out the hard way, that doesn’t mean the “Work” singer is attending the upcoming royal wedding. In an interview with Access a few days ago, a reporter asked her if she was invited to Harry and Meghan Markle’s big day. “Why would you think I’m invited?” Rihanna said, giving the reporter a look. “I don’t know. You met him,” the reporter said. “OK, you met me. You think you’re coming to my wedding?” she said with a laugh. “Am I coming to yours?”
Craig Newmark is the founder of Craigslist and the Craig Newmark Philanthropies, which supports and connects nonprofit communities and drives civic engagement. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. This is the next installment in CNN Opinion's series on the challenges facing the media as it is under attack from critics, governments and changing technology. (CNN) Throughout history, the media has been used to manipulate and influence political outcomes. Julius Caesar used war journaling, or a written firsthand account of war and its rationale, to justify the invasion and destruction of the Gallic tribes two millennia ago. His heir, Octavian, used a disinformation campaign to convince the Senate to declare war against Mark Antony. In later years, new communications tools, such as the printing press and moveable type, made it easier for philosophers including John Locke and Thomas Paine to influence new forms of democracy, which, while imperfect, have been more successful than other forms of government. What these historic figures didn't have access to is digital technology, which democratizes media but also eases the spread of disinformation. The internet allows all who have access to participate, but it also amplifies the effectiveness of media manipulation via automation. Botnets (which are made up of networks of individual, social media and bot accounts that appear to be owned by real people) act as a force multiplier, distributing disinformation in the form of "fake news" on a massive scale. We saw this in the 2016 US presidential election, as Russian propaganda flooded social media platforms to divide the nation. However, a broad community of good actors, including foundations and nonprofits committed to journalistic integrity, are emerging to promote media literacy and good-faith reporting. As a news consumer and a philanthropist (not an expert), I'm invested in supporting these knowledgeable institutions and initiatives to ensure that we have access to fair and accurate reporting. I care about this issue because I believe a strong, vigorous and trustworthy press is the immune system of democracy. Last year that immune system failed, which is why we need to focus on rebuilding and sustaining a trustworthy press now more than ever. While a complex task, given the evolving uses of technology in spreading disinformation, in order to remedy this issue we must create a more formalized journalistic code of ethics for the digital age. Read More
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge released the first official photos of the new royal baby, Prince Louis Arthur Charles, over the weekend. In the sweet pictures, which Kensington Palace said were taken by the duchess herself, Princess Charlotte cradles and kisses her new younger brother. But did you catch these two little details?
Jeff Yang is a frequent contributor to CNN Opinion, a featured writer for Quartz and other publications and co-host of the podcast, "They Call Us Bruce." He co-wrote Jackie Chan's best-selling autobiography, "I Am Jackie Chan," and is the editor of three graphic novels, "Secret Identities," "Shattered" and the forthcoming "New Frontiers." The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) Prom dresses are designed to get reactions, and the history of social media is littered with viral prom outfits -- dresses made out of unusual materials , dresses that send statements and dresses that are, well, regrettable, to say the least. But the viral reaction 18-year-old Keziah Daum has sparked with her prom dress is shocking, in no small part because of its disproportionate intensity. Her decision to wear a Chinese outfit called (depending on your dialect) a qipao or a cheongsam to prom in Utah, despite having no Chinese ancestry -- and then tweeting pictures of her posing with friends at prom - - has launched a social media debate around cultural appropriation that's generated hundreds of thousands of posts and comments, many of them outraged, and some of them outrageous. As she said to Buzzfeed, "I never imagined a simple rite of passage such as a prom would cause a discussion reaching many parts of the world," Daum said. "Perhaps it is an important discussion we need to have." She's right on that point: Cultural appropriation is a real and serious concern that's deeply intertwined with issues like colonialism, labor theft, racial privilege and ethnic stereotyping. Dismissal of the phenomenon is often simply a knee-jerk reaction by those seeking to assail what they see as "political correctness." But as always with these discussions, it pays to consider context before opening fire. Is it inherently appropriative for a non-Chinese person to wear Chinese-style apparel? The answer is: It depends. Is the person wearing it as part of an attempt at racial aping, mockery or stereotyping ( see: every Halloween ever )? Is the clothing itself an inappropriate variation of attire that's worn for culturally essentialist or religious purposes (example: conical peasant hats or anything with the Buddha stamped on i t)? Is the outfit being worn to an event whose theme uses Asian aesthetics in the service of white establishment privilege (e.g. , so many museum galas)? And what, for that matter, are the actual origins of the garment in question? Because the qipao, especially in its contemporary form, is far from a "traditional" Chinese outfit. In fact, it historically wasn't "female" clothing at all — or even "Chinese." The outfit that became the qipao, the sijigiyan, was the traditional ethnic clothing of the Manchu, who took over China in 1644 and established their own Qing Dynasty as its rulers. In the process, they mandated that all adult Chinese men in service of the throne wear Manchu garb -- turning the loose-fitting straight-line sijigiyan, known in Mandarin Chinese as the changpao, into both a symbol of elite status and a stamp of absolute Manchu domination. Eventually, the practice of wearing changpao became common even among non-Manchurian Chinese men who weren't part of the government. But non-Manchurian Chinese women continued to wear typical Chinese outfits -- usually blouses and long skirts under loose coats or jackets -- until the Qing Dynasty fell in 1911. By the 1930s, in colonial Shanghai and Hong Kong, the traditional Manchu male outfit had become feminized and stylized: The long gown was cut short and shaped to fit women's curves, elaborately printed or embroidered and turned into the dress commonly referred to as the qipao. Today, Chinese women who aren't restaurant staff or flight attendants do not wear the modern version of the qipao -- skin-tight, with a revealing leg slit and a hemline above the knee -- for anything other than weddings and gala events. JUST WATCHED Bruno Mars accused of cultural appropriation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bruno Mars accused of cultural appropriation 02:10 Which brings us back to Keziah Daum's decision to wear a qipao to her prom. She clearly didn't consider the full implications of her decision to not just wear the dress, but to post pictures of herself doing so on social media without explanation. And her comments to the press make it apparent that she hasn't fully reflected on the way that wearing outfits or hairstyles associated with other cultures is itself an expression of privilege. But in all fairness, her critics may actually be less knowledgeable about the dress than she is -- after all, Daum has referenced the qipao's association with female empowerment as one of the reasons she chose to wear it. More importantly, those who have chosen to conduct a social-media pile-on of Daum rather than engage her in civil conversation forget that she's a teenager -- one whose interest in other cultures could easily be turned into respect, mutual exchange and positive engagement. (Though the cultural context of Asians who live in a majority-Asian societies, versus Asian Americans who live as minorities in the US, is quite different, it's worth noting that Chinese in China have largely stepped up to defend Daum's wearing of the dress as a valid homage and celebration.) Yes, cultural appropriation is something we need to discuss. But any "discussion" that involves thousands of strangers attacking a teen from the safety of distance and anonymity looks a lot like cyberbullying. What's more, the incessant flame wars around Daum have prompted those on the extreme right to use her as a symbol to advance their agenda of cultural erasure. Like prom dresses, posts on social media are designed to draw attention. But let's remember that, like prom dresses, when they go wrong, the results can be ... regrettable.
Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Hurricane Harvey – The hurricane hit Texas around 11 p.m. ET on Friday, August 25, between Port Aransas and Port O'Connor. The Category 4 storm became a Category 1 by late Saturday morning, packing winds of 75 mph before Harvey stalled dropping trillions of gallons of rain over Texas. Harvey busted the US record for rainfall from a single storm, dumping 51 inches of rain in parts of Texas flooding much of the Houston Metro for days. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Hurricane Irma – It is the strongest Atlantic basin hurricane ever recorded outside the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea. Irma lasted as a hurricane from August 31 until September 11. The storm, which stretched 650 miles from east to west, affected at least nine US states, turning streets into rivers, ripping down power lines, uprooting trees and cutting off coastal communities. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Hurricane Maria – The hurricane made its first landfall on the Caribbean island nation of Dominica on Monday, September 18, as a Category 5 storm with winds topping 160 mph - the strongest hurricane on record to make landfall there. Days later, the storm devastated the US territory of Puerto Rico , leaving nearly the entire population in the dark. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Western wildfires, California firestorm – An unprecedented wildfire season out west led to 18 billion dollars in damages and 54 deaths. More than 1 million acres burned across Montana. In October, the Tubbs, Atlas, Nuns and Redwood Valley wildfires burned over 15,000 structures and became the costliest wildfire event on record. At the end of the year, another series of deadly wildfires burned hundreds of structures in the Los Angeles area. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana drought – The northern plains were hit especially hard by a drought that lasted from the spring to autumn. An estimated $2.5 billion in damages occurred as field crops withered in the sun. The lack of feed, due to damaged wheat, forced ranchers to sell off their cattle. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Minnesota hail storm and Upper Midwest severe weather – Destructive hail fell across the Minneapolis metro as an extensive storm system moved through Minnesota and Wisconsin. High winds also contributed to the damage that totaled $2.4 billion across the region. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Colorado hail storm and central severe weather – In May, hail and extreme winds impacted several states from the Rocky Mountains to the Ozark Mountains and the plains in-between. Denver was especially hit with the most expensive hailstorm in Colorado History with insured losses exceeding $2.2. billion. The total estimated cost was at least $3.4 billion. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos South/southeast severe weather – Severe storms stretching from the southern plains to Kentucky caused $2.6-$2.7 billion in damage. Large hail and high winds in Texas, just north of the Dallas metro, caused widespread damage. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Midwest tornado outbreak – An extensive tornado outbreak and powerful straight-line winds affected many from Kansas to New York in March of 2017. Nearly one million people lost power in Michigan. Overall there were between $2.1 and $2.2 billion in damage estimated across these states. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Central/southeast tornado outbreak – In March, the second largest tornado outbreak of 2017 spawned 70 tornadoes from the Central US to the Southeast. Six people lost their lives and damages estimated to be nearly $1.8 billion. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Missouri and Arkansas flooding and central severe weather – More than 15 inches of rain fell over a multi-state region leading to historical levels for multiple rivers in Missouri and Arkansas. Homes, businesses, infrastructure and agriculture were all affected leading up to $1.7 billion in damage and 20 lives lost. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos California flooding – After years of being in severe drought, California saw an intense amount of rainfall that contributed to flooding, landslides, and erosion equaling $1.5 billion in damages. Most notable was the damages to the Oroville Dam spillway which lead to a multi-day evacuation of 188,000 residents. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Midwest severe weather – Two separate Midwest storms each contributed over a billion dollars in damages in June. One caused $1.4 billion of damage due to straight-line winds, hail and more than a dozen tornadoes in Iowa and Nebraska. Another series of storms from Wyoming to New York contributed at least $1.5 billion of damage due to similar conditions, severe winds, tornadoes and destructive hail. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: 2017's billion-dollar disasters in photos Southern tornado outbreak and western storms – A violent storm system moved across the US in January. After damaging winds in southern California, the storm produced the third most tornadoes ever in a winter month. From Texas to Georgia, 79 confirmed tornadoes killed 24 and generated $1.1 billion in damages. Hide Caption 14 of 15
John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion who focuses on climate change and social justice. Follow him on Snapchat , Facebook and email . This story is part of a CNN series called " Vanishing ." Learn more about the sixth extinction and get involved. To understand how big of a deal that is you don't have to look much further than the definition of "mass extinction." It means that three-quarters of all species vanish -- forever. In all of history, that's happened only five times. The sixth extinction would be the first caused by humans. "We are basically annihilating the life on our planet -- and that is the only known life ... in the entire universe," said Paul Ehrlich, Bing professor of population studies at Stanford University. "It's life that shaped the planet, that made it possible for us to live here. It's life that still makes it possible for us to live here. (If) we don't have the diversity of other organisms, we're done." I've been reporting on the coming extinction crisis this year for a CNN series called "Vanishing." And I can tell you that while this topic is enormously depressing, there is some good news: We know how to slow or hopefully stop the sixth extinction. Anthony Barnosky, another extinction expert, also from Stanford, told me humans have at most 20 years to make sweeping changes about our relationship with nature. If we do that, he said, we can avoid the sixth extinction. But here's what needs to happen, according to the experts. 1. Stop burning fossil fuels JUST WATCHED If coral reefs disappear, so will they Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH If coral reefs disappear, so will they 06:08 Burning fossil fuels and chopping down rainforests is heating up the atmosphere. That's creating trouble for all corners of the natural world, from the Rocky Mountains, where the tiny pika is overheating , to the oceans, where coral reefs are being decimated as the oceans warm and become more acidic. We know that to avert the worst of climate change we need to limit warming to at most 2 degrees Celsius . To do that, the world needs to be off fossil fuels this century -- hopefully closer to 2030 than 2100. That's a tall order, but Stanford University researchers have shown we can do it with existing technology like wind, solar and nuclear. Policies that promote cleaner energy include carbon taxes, cap-and-trade pollution pricing systems and renewable energy tax credits. The Paris Agreement on climate change, ratified by the United States and 115 other countries , also creates a framework for a rapid shift away from fossil fuels. The Trump administration in the United States, however, threatens to move the world's second-biggest climate polluter away from that agreement and back towards dirty, climate-warming fuels. 2. Protect half the Earth's land -- and oceans JUST WATCHED The old man and the bee Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The old man and the bee 05:04 This idea comes from renowned biologist E.O. Wilson: Put aside half the surface of the Earth -- both land and oceans -- for the betterment of the nature and biodiversity. Maybe that sounds like a lot, but Wilson argues it's necessary if we want to avert crisis. Some 84% of species could be saved if we protected all that land. "That amount, as I and others have shown, can be put together from large and small fragments around the world to remain relatively natural, without removing people living there or changing property rights," Wilson wrote in an op-ed in The New York Times 3. Fight illegal wildlife trafficking JUST WATCHED Iconic African elephant population on the brink Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iconic African elephant population on the brink 05:49 Some of the world's most iconic species -- particularly the elephant and rhino -- are threatened with extinction simply because people are slaughtering these majestic creatures to sell their body parts on the black market. Elephant ivory is carved into trinkets. And rhino horn is mistakenly sold as an aphrodisiac. And there are other less-known markets, too, including those for pangolin meat (a delicacy), giraffe tails (bracelets) and tiger bone (medicine). Efforts to shut down these markets have been grossly inadequate, as the black market in environmental products is estimated to be worth $91 billion to $258 billion per year . Compare that to drug trafficking, the most lucrative black market, which is worth $344 billion per year, according to a United Nations and Interpol estimate. Experts say better law enforcement is needed to stop poaching. And consumers -- especially those in Asia, where wildlife products tend to be popular -- need to stop buying these illegal and harmful goods. Groups like WildAid and Education for Nature Vietnam are using advertising campaigns to try to make these products seem uncool. 4. Slow human population growth JUST WATCHED The birds on this island eat plastic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The birds on this island eat plastic 05:17 It sounds callous, but more people means more food, more land and more resources. Ehrlich, from Stanford, said population growth is one of the main drivers of the Earth's extinction crisis. The population was about 4 billion in 1980. It's now 7.4 billion and is rapidly heading for 9.7 billion by 2050 , according to the United Nations. 5. Reconnect with the natural world, and open our eyes JUST WATCHED Listening for extinction: the amphibian apocalypse Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Listening for extinction: the amphibian apocalypse 05:40 If there's a fact that underlies all this, perhaps it's this: We're no longer connected to nature. We don't understand it and therefore, naively, dangerously, we figure it's doing just fine or will rebound. Barnosky, the extinction expert from Stanford, said we think of the natural world like a bottomless checking account when we need to see it as a savings account. We humans also have ridiculously short attention spans. Issues like extinction and climate change play out over decades, centuries and millennia. Our actions now -- or inaction -- will matter for thousands of years. "You can have catastrophic events that are seen in slow motion, basically, and not register on people very well," said Ehrlich. We must find a way to reconnect with nature and to see this wave of extinction for the crisis that it is. Have other ideas or questions? Please e-mail me: john.sutter@cnn.com.
Warren Buffett reportedly offered to invest about $3 billion in Uber this year, but negotiations fell apart. Bloomberg first reported the news on Wednesday, attributing the revelation to unnamed sources. Buffett later told CNBC that his company Berkshire Hathaway "had discussions with Uber." Uber declined to comment for this story, and Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA) could not immediately be reached for comment. An endorsement from Buffett may have been particularly helpful for Uber as it works to reform its image following allegations of a culture of sexism and harassment within the company. Buffett told CNBC that he's a "great admirer" of Uber's new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, who took over last year amid the turmoil. Interest from the famed investor offers a boost to companies. When Buffett recently told CNBC that his company bought about 75 million shares of Apple (AAPL) stock during the first three months of the year, Apple stock climbed 4%. That day, the company closed at an all-time high. Buffet said that Apple is "an amazing business" and an "unbelievable company." In February, when Berkshire took a $358 million stake in Israeli drugmaker Teva Pharmaceutical (TEVA), shares of the company spiked 7%. Related: Warren Buffett just bought a ton more shares of Apple Investors also pay attention when Buffett unloads stock. Recently, he sold off shares in GE (GE) and IBM (IBM). An investment in Uber would have been notable in part because Buffett was relatively late to investing in Apple and tech stocks overall. The startup said last week that it posted a $2.5 billion profit in the first quarter after years of mounting losses. However, the impressive figure was almost entirely the result of Uber ceding two of its operations abroad to rivals. Buffett didn't report his first purchase of Apple shares until two years ago, when he bought 9.8 million shares of the company's stock. He has added to those holdings since. Apple is now one of Berkshire's largest holdings. — CNN's Chris Isidore and Seth Fiegerman contributed to this report.
(CNN) So much for the slow-moving lava. Magma from Hawaii's Kilauea volcano traveled down Highway 132 overnight in Pahoa, forcing evacuations as emergency responders worry residents could be painted into a corner on the east side of the Big Island. Residents in Kapoho -- including Kapoho Beach Lots and Vacationland -- have been advised to evacuate, according to a Hawaii County Civil Defense Agency message. It warned that Beach Road, east of Highway 137, was at risk of "possible lava inundation," which could trap residents in the area. Just after 8 a.m., the agency warned "flows are advancing on Highway 137." Just after midnight, observers said lava fountaining from Fissure 8 was fueling the river of lava flowing down Highway 132. It was moving at an accelerated clip of about 10 yards a minute, much faster than the slow-moving stuff residents had seen earlier. Highway 132 has been closed. At that rate, the lava, which forced the evacuations of residents along roads north of Highway 132, covered almost a half-mile in 80 minutes, the Hawaii County Civil Defense Agency said. The pace slowed -- to 3 to 4 yards per minute -- later Wednesday morning and left Highway 132, but was following its "steepest line of descent," which would take it to the Four Corners area, east of Highway 137. Around 1:30 a.m., civil defense warned the lava could reach Beach Road near Four Corners within four to six hours. Fissure 8 was still active hours later on Wednesday, Hawaii County Civil Defense Administrator Talmadge Magno said. The vent erupted to heights of more than 200 feet at times, according to a Facebook post from USGS Volcanoes. Earlier, residents had been advised to take shelter at the Pahoa Community Center, Keaau Community Center and the Sure Foundation Church. Pets are allowed at the shelters. Those who decline to evacuate are on their own, with Hawaii County Mayor Harry Kim saying late Tuesday that first responders would cease going door-to-door in dangerous areas once final evacuation orders were issued. First responders put themselves in danger on Sunday and Monday nights trying to help people who had refused to evacuate, Kim said. About 2,500 people have been evacuated since Kilauea Volcano erupted more than three weeks ago, according to Magno. Lava swallowing homes Though radar hadn't detected any significant bursts of volcanic ash from Halemaumau Crater for several hours late Tuesday, the National Weather Service warned that ash could erupt from Kilauea at any time. Trade winds will push any ash southwest over Kau District and Highway 11, which could affect the communities of Pahala, Wood Valley, Naalehu and Ocean View. JUST WATCHED Lava 'river' engulfs home in minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lava 'river' engulfs home in minutes 00:59 "With winds spreading ash in the same direction, repeated eruptions will lead to a heavier buildup of ash," the weather service said. "In addition, any ash deposited over the last several days will likely be picked up by local winds, contributing to dusty conditions." Early Wednesday, 200-foot-high lava flows were raining black pumice rocks onto the ground below and feeding lava flows to the northeast. Particularly concerning was Fissure 20, which was spewing lava southward to the coast. Authorities estimated Wednesday that lava had consumed 75 homes on the Big Island , including 20 in the previous two days, Magno told reporters during a news conference in Hilo. Lava also threatened a geothermal energy conversion plant, which is closed, Magno said. 'That was my house right there' More than 300 people are staying in emergency shelters. Leilani Estates resident Steve Gebbie said he lost his home to lava Sunday night. He showed a video of his property engulfed by smoldering black lava. Standing in a driveway filming the devastation, Gebbie choked up looking at his neighborhood's losses: "My house is gone. That was my house right there. Randy's house is gone. Donna's house is gone." JUST WATCHED See damage from lava invading Hawaii Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See damage from lava invading Hawaii 02:22 Dangerous volcanic haze has now drifted some 4,000 miles away to the US territory of Guam, which warned residents with respiratory problems to stay indoors if the haze was visible. The haze could also cause issues for the Mariana Islands. There's also the danger of "vog," or volcanic smog, on the Big Island. Vog is a haze created when sulfur dioxide gas and other volcanic pollutants mix with moisture and dust. And in addition to volcanic particles that can cause eye, skin and respiratory irritation, residents were warned to be on the lookout for Pele's hair, a reference to the Hawaiian goddess of fire. Pele's hair is sharp, thin strands of volcanic glass fibers. Pahoa residents reported seeing it fall Monday night. "Avoid touching it or getting it in your eyes," the Hawaii County Civil Defense Agency said. "It can cause injury to eyes and lungs if breathed in." 'Hawaii is open for business' George Szigeti, president and CEO of the Hawaii Tourism Authority, said hotels and outfits that offer activities for tourists have reported a drop in bookings as a result of volcanic activity. JUST WATCHED Man hit by lava bomb describes gruesome injuries Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man hit by lava bomb describes gruesome injuries 01:42 But he emphasized that Kilauea is affecting only 10 square miles of the Big Island, which has an area of more than 4,000 square miles. Also, he said, Hilo and the island's resort areas are nowhere near the volcanic activity. "We've really been trying to clear up some misconceptions and tell people Hawaii is open for business." The reported drop in hotel and activities bookings comes as the Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau reports a significant uptick this month in arrivals to the Big Island, owing largely to an increase in nonstop air service from the US mainland to Hawaii.
OTTAWA — Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould has asked for an independent review of an extradition that resulted in Ottawa professor Hassan Diab spending three years in a French jail, only to be suddenly released. The external review — which has not started — is in addition to an internal "lessons learned'' examination already underway, a spokesman for Wilson-Raybould said Wednesday. French authorities suspected Diab, 64, was involved in the 1980 bombing of a Paris synagogue that killed four people and injured dozens of others, an accusation he has always denied. The sociology professor and his supporters have been urging the federal government to hold a full public inquiry into the case and to reform the Extradition Act to ensure individual rights are respected. In a letter Tuesday to Amnesty International Canada and the British Columbia Civil Liberties Association, Wilson-Raybould said Diab was afforded "all of the procedural safeguards'' under the Extradition Act and that his charter rights were considered during Canadian court proceedings. "Nonetheless, due to the three-year-period that Dr. Diab spent in custody in France, I have been reflecting carefully on this case,'' said her letter, made available to the The Canadian Press by the two rights organizations. "As you know, Department of Justice Canada officials have undertaken a 'lessons learned' review of the Diab extradition proceedings. I have also asked for an independent external review of this matter.'' Josh Paterson, executive director of the B.C. association, said Wednesday he is seeking answers from the minister about the independent review, including whether the findings will be made public. "Who will be or has been appointed? What is the scope of the review? Will they have the power to require the department to co-operate with them?'' No other information was immediately available from Wilson-Raybould's office. Sent to France in 2014 The RCMP arrested Diab, a Canadian of Lebanese descent, in November 2008 in response to a request by France. In June 2011, Ontario Superior Court Justice Robert Maranger committed Diab for extradition despite acknowledging the case against him was weak. The following year, then-justice minister Rob Nicholson signed an extradition order surrendering Diab to France. The Ontario Court of Appeal upheld the decisions of the lower court and the minister, and the Supreme Court of Canada declined to review the matter. "I think that it is very important for there to be an external review of why he was sent from Canada in the first place and let me point out it was the previous Harper government which made those decisions.'' Chrystia Freeland Diab's supporters have long argued he was in Beirut — not Paris — when the attack took place and that his fingerprints, palm prints, physical description and age did not match those of the suspect identified in 1980. In November 2014, Diab was sent to France, where he was held in solitary confinement up to 22 hours a day. In January, French judges dismissed the allegations against Diab and ordered his immediate release. Diab is back in Canada with his wife and children. However, French prosecuting authorities have appealed his release, and a decision is expected July 6. Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland said she and the prime minister had advocated "very energetically'' for Diab's return to Canada. "I think that it is very important for there to be an external review of why he was sent from Canada in the first place and let me point out it was the previous Harper government which made those decisions.'' — With a file from Terry Pedwell
Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @DeanObeidallah . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) Chelsea Clinton is being wrongly attacked on social media for speaking the truth. In an in-depth interview with The Guardian, the former first daughter said of Trump's planned visit to the United Kingdom, scheduled for July: "If I lived in Britain I would show up to protest, because I don't agree with what he's doing to degrade what it means to be an American." Then came Fox News -- and even media outlets not on the right -- taking her quote out of context, with headlines blaring: "Chelsea Clinton says Trump 'degrades what it means to be an American.'" In reality the quote, that began with Clinton first speaking of her own activism in attending "multiple protests" in the United States since Trump won, did not say Trump had been effective at degrading what it means to be American. But she was warning that Trump was in fact trying to do just that. Clinton is 100% correct. Trump has clearly attempted to effectively turn the United States into Trumpistan — a nation where policies are based on bigotry, where the truth doesn't matter and American values of tolerance and pluralism are no more. Just look at Trump's attempts at a Muslim ban, his efforts to ban transgender Americans from serving in the military and his demonization and outright lies surrounding immigrants that began the very first day of his campaign with his false claim that Mexico was "sending" rapists to America. And there are Trump's continued attacks on the First Amendment and our media. He's has even tried to use the apparatus of the federal government to punish The Washington Post by raising the postage costs for Amazon, which has the same owner. If those who opposed Trump had remained silent after he took power, Trump may have well succeeded at degrading what it meant to be American. But Trump didn't, because of Clinton and the millions of others who took to the streets and voting booths to prevent that from happening. Literally the day after Trump was sworn in, we saw massive marches across the nation led by women opposed to Trump, in numbers far exceeding the crowd that witnessed Trump's inauguration. And since then we have seen people take to the streets, the airports and polling places to make it clear that we will not allow Trump to degrade what it means to be American. That's why in January 2017, when Trump first tried to implement his bigoted Muslim ban, thousands and thousands of American spontaneously went to airports and rallied in the streets in opposition. Beyond the protests, we've seen those who oppose Trump take to the polls. In December Democrats won a headline-grabbing victory in Alabama, electing to the US Senate the first Democrat from that state in 25 years. Then came March's stunning special-election victory by a Democrat in a Pennsylvania congressional district Trump carried by more than 20 points in 2016. Since Trump took office, Democrats have flipped over 40 state legislative seats from red to blue. Clinton might have been alluding to the view from outside of America that Trump has degraded our nation's reputation on the world stage. Sadly, that appears to be true. With Trump's "America alone" strategy -- pulling out of the Iran deal despite our European allies urging us to remain it, for example -- our allies don't trust us and our enemies may not even fear us. Why would they? Trump's an erratic, non-stop lie machine. As the Washington Post recently quantified, Trump has made over 3,000 misleading or false statements (or lies, as I call them) to the American people since he took office. The hope is that our allies understand that Trump doesn't define what it means to be an American. That is defined by the American people. And to that point, poll after poll makes it clear a majority of Americans disapprove of Trump's work as president. Even more telling is that in recent polls, those who strongly disapprove of Trump are nearly double the number of those who strongly approve of him. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook In her Guardian interview, Clinton also urged that we speak out against Trump's unleashing of hate and bigotry so that "we don't normalize it" as we "try to detoxify what has been unleashed." She added, "if we don't, we leave a vacuum. And I think the darkness fills that vacuum." She is absolutely right. And each step we take in this battle is another important step in ensuring that Trump doesn't end up actually degrading what it means to be an American.
Washington (CNN) While Democrats came up short in last Tuesday's Arizona special election -- losing by fewer than five points in a district Donald Trump carried by 21 points -- the results offer yet another sign the party still holds the energy edge heading into November's midterm election. As we approach a cluttered stretch of the primary calendar, the results from those contests -- and the next wave of campaign fundraising reports in June -- will help to clarify the Democratic Party's prospects this fall. That deadline will offer a good idea of whether Democrats can maintain momentum. More than three dozen Democratic House candidates outraised Republican incumbents for the second quarter in a row after the most recent filing. Trump's national approval rating, meanwhile, continues to hover around 40%, which poses an additional challenge for GOP candidates running this year. With all that in mind, we are moving a dozen Republican held House districts to a more competitive rating. Each race below is moving in the direction of the Democrats even though the Republican remains favored in all of them. As a reminder, Democrats need a net gain of 23 seats in order to win control of the House. Of the 11 races rated Lean Democratic by CNN, seven are currently held by Republicans, as are 19 of the 21 races rated Toss-Up. Of the 25 races CNN now rates as Lean Republican, all are Republican-held -- or in the case of the Ohio 12th District seat vacated by Pat Tiberi, had been held by a Republican. AZ-06: You might not have to look very far for reverberations from last week's special election results. The neighboring 6th District, represented by GOP Rep. Dave Schweikert, is more favorable terrain for Democrats than the 8th District -- more suburban and home to a higher percentage of college graduates. Trump won here by 10 points, a much slimmer margin than Mitt Romney's 21-point spread in 2012. Arizona has a late primary at the end of August, but Democrats believe Arizona State University nursing professor Heather Ross has the potential to make this race more competitive if she emerges as the nominee. Race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican. AR-02: Arkansas state Rep. Clarke Tucker gives Democrats a candidate who could make inroads in the 2nd District, home to Little Rock. Tucker announced his bid in early February, and despite the late start managed to beat GOP Rep. French Hill in fundraising by about $130,000 in the first quarter. Trump won the district by 10 points, slipping from Romney's 12-point margin four years earlier. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican. CA-04: There are some shared qualities with the northern Sacramento suburbs of California's 4th District and the Phoenix suburbs from Arizona's 8th District. Both have a large contingent of senior citizens. They also have a similar racial breakdown. Trump won only 53% in this district, falling off five points from Romney's 58% mark in 2012. Veteran GOP Rep. Tom McClintock has been outraised by leading Democratic candidate Jessica Morse in three consecutive fundraising quarters. Morse also has a $715,000 to $676,000 cash on hand lead. Race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican. FL-16: GOP Rep. Vern Buchanan has won comfortably the last two cycles, and while he remains a heavy favorite he'll have to work a bit to earn a seventh term in this Sarasota-area district. He's sitting on $2.5 million in the bank and raised $480,000 in the first quarter. He'll likely face Sarasota attorney David Shapiro in November. The Democrat raised $400,000 in the first quarter and is just shy of half a million cash on hand. Race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican. IL-14: Lauren Underwood, a registered nurse and former Department of Health and Human Services adviser in the Obama administration, scored 57% of the vote in a crowded Democratic primary last month. Democrats are hopeful she can give GOP Rep. Randy Hultgren a serious challenge in the 14th District, which is made up of Chicago exurbs. Hultgren has benefited from weakly-funded challengers in previous cycles -- a luxury he likely won't have against Underwood, who raised $465,000 in the first quarter. Hultgren brought in $360,000 -- but still has a significant cash on hand advantage ($783,000 vs. $235,000). While Trump won this district by four points in 2016, Barack Obama carried it with 50% in 2008. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican. MI-01: This northern Michigan district, which includes the Upper Peninsula, went for Trump by 22 points, but gave Romney and McCain single-digit victories. The race is shaping up to be a contest between two Marine Corps veterans -- incumbent GOP Rep. Jack Bergman and Democratic candidate Matthew Morgan. Morgan has outraised Bergman in each of the past two quarters and now holds a $317,000 to $307,000 advantage in terms of cash on hand. Race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican. NJ-03: GOP Rep. Tom MacArthur's support for Trump's agenda (health care repeal and tax cuts) and a strong challenge from likely Democratic nominee Andy Kim make this swing district competitive. The district went for Trump by six points, but backed Barack Obama by four in 2012. Kim, a former national security adviser to Obama, outraised MacArthur by more than $200,000 in the first quarter, though the Republican still holds an advantage of roughly $270,000 in cash on hand. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican. NM-02: Both parties are facing primary fights in the 2nd District, which opened up when GOP Rep. Steve Pearce decided to run for governor in the Land of Enchantment. On the Republican side, it appears to be a contest between state Rep. Yvette Herrell and former Hobbs Mayor Monty Newman. Xochitl Torres Small looks to the the frontrunner for the Democratic nod. The attorney and former field representative for Sen. Tom Udall raised $313,000 in the first quarter, beating Newman and Herrell combined. While registered Democrats outnumber Republicans in this district, Trump carried it by 10 points, which was a wider margin than Romney's seven-point win in 2012. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican. OH-01: All eyes in Ohio are on the 12th District special election in August, but the House race in the Buckeye State to watch in November is likely to be the 1st District, where GOP Rep. Steve Chabot could face a serious challenge from Democrat Aftab Pureval. Pureval, the Hamilton County Clerk of Courts, outraised Chabot by nearly half a million dollars in the first quarter of 2018. This district, which includes the western and northern parts of the Cincinnati metro area, went for Trump by seven points and Romney by six points. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican. OH-07: Speaking of Ohio, GOP Rep. Bob Gibbs improved a bit on his lackluster $86,000 fundraising quarter at the end of 2017 -- raising $113,000 in the first quarter of 2018. Democrat Ken Harbaugh, a former Navy pilot, hauled in $441,000 -- after raising $272,000 in the fourth quarter of 2017. Gibbs still has $1.3 million in the bank compared to Harbaugh's $726,000. The Gibbs campaign and Ohio Republicans have been attacking Harbaugh's primary opponent, Patrick Pikus, who is little known and has only raised $5,000 for his campaign -- perhaps in an attempt to raise his name ID. Democrats see the move as an indication the Gibbs campaign views Harbaugh as a threat. Race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican. WA-05: Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a member of the House GOP leadership, has a tough race on her hands against Democrat Lisa Brown, the former chancellor of Washington State University Spokane. A recent Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a member of the House GOP leadership, has a tough race on her hands against Democrat Lisa Brown, the former chancellor of Washington State University Spokane. A recent poll of the district showed McMorris Rodgers leading Brown by six points, 44% to 38%, with 16% undecided. McMorris Rodgers hauled in $776,000 in the first quarter compared to $649,000 for Brown -- and the Republican leads in cash on hand by more than $700,000. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican. WI-06: Even with House Speaker Paul Ryan's retirement, a lot of attention in the Badger State will be paid to the 1st District race. But the contest in the 6th District could be the best pickup opportunity in the state for Democrats, with Dan Kohl -- nephew of former Sen. Herb Kohl -- giving the party a serious challenger to GOP Rep. Glenn Grothman. Kohl has outraised Grothman now in three consecutive quarters and has $136,000 more in the bank to start April. This is another district where Trump outperformed previous Republican candidates, winning by 17 points. Romney won it by seven in 2012 while Obama carried the district in 2008. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican. Correction: This story has been updated to reflect the correct first quarter fundraising numbers for the candidates running in Illinois' 14th District.
(CNN) Flaky pastries, fine wine and fashionable people smoking lots of cigarettes: Fair or not, this has been a cultural image of France for decades. But there are signs that smoking in France is losing its allure. new study by the French Department of Public Health has found that one million daily smokers in the country quit the habit in the last year. Authorities attribute the drop to recent anti-smoking measures and higher taxes on cigarettes. "This historic decline proves to everyone that it is possible to fight against smoking through coherent and integrated actions," said François Bourdillon, the health department's director general, in the report released Monday. Read More
William D. Hartung is the director of the Arms and Security Project at the Center for International Policy. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's speech this week on next steps in US policy toward Iran read more like a call to war than a carefully crafted foreign policy stance. So much so that the obvious next question is what it might cost if the Trump administration seeks to provoke regime change in Iran. That's tough to answer, since it depends entirely on how the Trump administration chooses to go about it, if it indeed chooses to go down that disastrous road. Pompeo's threat to bring Iran to its knees with punishing economic sanctions clearly won't get the job done, especially since the Trump administration has just alienated its most important potential partners by withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal. Good luck getting France, or the United Kingdom, or Germany, much less Russia or China, to join in a campaign of maximum economic pressure on Tehran after the Trump administration has walked away from a painstakingly negotiated multilateral deal that was working to achieve its only stated objective -- stopping Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. Next-level steps could include supporting anti-regime groups like the Mujahadeen-e-Khalq (MEK), which was for many years on the US list of terrorist organizations. But its ability to win over influential supporters like John Bolton does not mean that the MEK has either the capacity or the support to overthrow the Iranian government. To think that an organization that the New York Times has rightly described as a "fringe dissident group" could overthrow the government of Iran is a fantasy. Non-violent, internal opponents of the Iranian regime would most likely be hurt more than helped by overt US support. And the last time the US launched a coup in Iran -- installing the Shah of Iran in place of the democratically-elected government of Mohammed Mossadeq in 1953 -- the results were counterproductive, to put it mildly. Twenty-five years of dictatorship followed by the rise of an Islamic fundamentalist regime can hardly be called a foreign policy success. So that leaves military action. A bombing campaign could kill thousands of Iranians, but it would be extremely unlikely to undercut Tehran's ability to restart its nuclear weapons program, and might even accelerate that effort. Last but not least, as one analyst of the region has noted , a full-scale war against Iran would make the Iraq and Afghan conflicts look like "a walk in the park." It's impossible to say with any level of precision what a US attempt to overthrow the Iranian government might cost, but our experience with Iraq offers some clues. Economic sanctions hurt millions of ordinary Iraqis. But Saddam Hussein was able to manipulate the shortages caused by sanctions to posture his regime as the sole source of sustenance for the population. As veteran journalist David Rieff noted in a detailed analysis of the 1990s sanctions regime, they "palpably failed to dislodge his [Saddam's] government and in fact strengthened him politically." After sanctions failed to displace Hussein's government, many proponents of regime change in Iraq placed their faith in Ahmed Chalabi and the Iraqi National Congress (INC), an exile group whose main achievement was to supply misleading intelligence about Iraq's nuclear program. When backing Chalabi and the INC failed to undermine Saddam Hussein's regime, the neoconservatives who populated the top ranks of the Bush administration pressed for an invasion. Bush administration officials assured the American public that a war with Iraq would be cheap and easy, a " cake walk " that could cost as little as $50 to $60 billion. So far, as the Costs of War Project at Brown University has calculated, the post-9/11 wars pushed by George W. Bush and his advisors have cost $5.6 trillion , and counting -- more than 100 times the Bush administration's initial claims. More importantly, the wars have cost hundreds of thousands of lives on all sides, including an estimated 200,000 civilians . Is that the kind of regime change the Trump administration has in mind for Iran? Bearing the Iraq example in mind, what would the different options for pursuing regime change in Iran cost? The Trump administration's ditching of the Iran nuclear deal has already cost Boeing a major airline sale to Iran worth $20 billion . The negative consequences of ratcheted up sanctions could cost the US economy billions more by causing a hike in global oil prices, higher prices at the gas pump and a possible reduction in domestic tourism and travel. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Funding internal opponents of the regime could cost an exorbitant amount over a multi-year period. And if unsuccessfully attempting to train 500 "moderate" Syrian fighters cost over $500 million , training a force to attack Iran could run to several billion or more. Lobbing dozens of cruise missiles at Iran to "send a message," as Trump has done twice in Syria, could cost a few hundred million dollars A bombing campaign similar to the one waged against ISIS in Iraq and Syria would cost about $8.3 million a day , or about $3 billion per year. A major bombing campaign like the one inflicted on Iraq in the 1990s would run into the tens of billions. And, judging from the experience in Iraq, a full-fledged invasion could cost trillions, not to mention creating a level of chaos in the region that would make current conflicts worse even as new ones are sparked. The underlying question, of course, is whether the Trump administration should seek to overthrow the Iranian government in the first place. From a security perspective, the answer should be a resounding no. If the administration is nonetheless determined to pursue such an option, the American public should at least be given a sense of what it might cost in both blood and treasure. But don't hold your breath waiting for John Bolton, Mike Pompeo or anybody else in the Trump administration to give you a straight answer.
(CNN) The maker of Taytulla birth-control treatment issued a nationwide recall in the United States on Tuesday over concerns that misplaced capsules in pill packs could cause unintended pregnancies. A physician reported that four placebo capsules were packaged in the wrong order where active capsules should have been, drugmaker Allergan said in a statement The physician sample pack should have 24 pink capsules with hormones followed by four maroon capsules without hormones, Allergan said. Instead, the faulty pack had four maroon placebos at the start of the treatment. "As a result of this packaging error, oral contraceptive capsules that are taken out of sequence may place the user at risk for contraceptive failure and unintended pregnancy," the statement said. "The reversing of the order may not be apparent to either new users or previous users of the product, increasing the likelihood of taking the capsules out of order." Read More
(CNN) For the past 20 years, Hope Workman has hustled up a dirt path on the side of a mountain in Lovely, Kentucky, just to get drinking water. She doesn't trust what comes out of her tap. If she's by herself, she'll take her ATV. If one of her daughters is coming along, they take their four-wheel-drive truck. It takes her about seven minutes to grind up the hill before she reaches her destination: a small plastic well tapped into the side of the mountain with a 3½-foot PVC pipe. The day CNN visited, the temperature was just above freezing, and Hope's hands shivered as she filled jug after jug with crystal-clear drinking water. "This is what we go through to get water, unfortunately," she said. Workman is not the only person in Martin County, Kentucky, or America for that matter, who struggles to get clean water. Two well-publicized crises include Flint, Michigan's, lead contamination and Puerto Rico's failing water systems in the wake of Hurricane Maria. As our water infrastructure system ages, experts say, keeping America's water clean becomes increasingly challenging. The American Society of Civil Engineers gives the nation's drinking water infrastructure a grade of D. According to the the society, about 1 million miles of pipes crisscross the country to deliver us clean water, much of it overseen by local municipalities that are challenged with aging hardware. Many of these pipes were laid underground nearly a century ago and are reaching the end of their life spans. As they age, they can crack, and water breaks become more common. In fact, the entire country loses nearly 6 billion gallons of water a day just to leaky pipes. For many cash-strapped local utilities, it's difficult to find the resources to manage a problem we rarely see. Faucets run brown But when the problem does come to the surface, it's hard to ignore. Just ask the residents of Martin County. Customers of the county's water district post videos and pictures on social media of brown cloudy water spouting out of their taps. Sometimes, it comes out looking like blue Gatorade. Sometimes, it smells like diesel fuel. Locals ask themselves, "Just what's in the water?" Until several months ago, customers received notices on the back of their water bills stating that their water had been tested and found to be above federal limits of trihalomethanes and haloacetic acids . These contaminants are a reaction between the chlorine used to treat the water for bacteria and organic matter that may be found in the water or the pipes. Exposure to these chemicals could mean an increased risk of cancer. Eastern Kentucky has some of the highest levels of cancer in the country due to smoking and obesity, but residents here also wonder whether their water is to blame. 'We're just scared of the water' Martin County resident BarbiAnn Maynard is convinced that her mother's cancer was related to the water. "We don't really know what to do. We're just scared of the water and have been for years," she said. "You're afraid to wash your hands if you've got a cut," Maynard said. Taking a shower is no better. "I don't feel like I'm getting clean. I might smell a little bit better, but I don't feel any better about it." Dr. Don Lafferty, a local physician, feels that he's in a difficult position when patients ask him whether the water is the source of their health issues. "I can't tell them it's safe or it isn't safe," he told CNN's chief medical correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta. "We shouldn't have to be asking ... in 2018 whether or not water is causing cancer in our region." Where the War on Poverty began Nestled in the hills of Eastern Kentucky, Martin County has had a long history tied to coal. Between 1918 and 2015, the county produced more than 436 million tons of coal. But as the coal industry died out, Martin County struggled. Nearly 40% of its population lives at or below the federal poverty level. The unemployment rate in the county is almost double the national rate. But poverty has been endemic to the area for years. President Lyndon Johnson came here in 1964 to launch his War on Poverty. "In 2018, in the very place where LBJ declared war on poverty ... water is our number one issue. That's hard to imagine," said Gary Ball, editor-in-chief of the local weekly newspaper, The Mountain Citizen. What's happened in Martin County is a worst-case scenario that may be happening in other parts of the country, said Lindell Ormsbee, director of the Kentucky Water Resources Research Institute at the University of Kentucky. "I think it's somewhat of a systematic representation of what's happening in a lot of other places where no one's looking. It's almost like the proverbial canary in the mine," Ormsbee said. What is happening? A large part of the issue in Martin County is just hardware itself. There are about 300 miles of piping that deliver water across the county, placed up and over rocky terrain, making them even more susceptible to leaking. Today, more than half of the water that leaves the Martin County Water District treatment center doesn't make it to the faucet. When water systems are operating optimally, there is enough going through the pipes at a high enough pressure that debris from outside the pipe can't make its way inside. Essentially, there's so much water going through so quickly that even if there is a crack in the pipe, the water can act as a barrier. But as soon as that pressure drops or there's less water going through the pipes, there is suddenly room for soil, debris and chemical residue to sneak into the drinking water. And because of the leakage issues, the Water District hasn't been able to flush the water lines clean in years, said Joe Burns of the Kentucky Rural Water Association. "As far as systematic lines, it's been years since it's even been able to be accomplished." Burns' group is working with the Martin County Water District to help make improvements as best as they can. They've been able to reduce the levels of byproduct contaminants to under federal limits by simply changing where they add the chlorine. But on top of issues with the lines, there are upgrades to the water treatment facilities, pumps and meters that still need to be made. Investments in hardware and software are needed For a financially struggling municipality, it is hard to find resources outside raising water rates, which is difficult for a community of people who mostly live on a limited income. Infrastructure isn't just pipes and hardware, Ormsbee said; it also includes financial and technical management. Small water systems, such as Martin County, that serve less than 10,000 customers supply water to nearly 20% of the country . In addition to infrastructure and financial challenges, many of these systems can have a difficult time attracting the technical expertise to help. In fact, small systems made up 72% of EPA violations in 2015 and 2016. Some citizens in Martin County feel that they've been forgotten. "Appalachia has been at the forefront in helping to improve this country for many years. ... We've sent people to die in all of our country's wars. We've populated this country with people in all industries," Lafferty said. "We are Americans, too." Ball points to a new government center and a business complex in Inez, the county seat. The cost is nearly $20 million, money that he said could have been spent on upgrading the water system. Some relief Recently, Martin County received federal grants amounting to $3.4 million to go toward its water system. Experts believe that overhauling the system would take $13.5 million to $15 million. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. President Trump's infrastructure proposal gives some residents hope. The $1.5 trillion plan touted by the White House is supposed to cover all infrastructure upgrades in the nation, but experts believe that it would cost the country $1 trillion just to maintain and meet the demands for drinking water for the next 25 years. Critics further point out the White House's plan earmarks only $200 billion in federal investment. The remainder is to be made up by the states and the private sector. "Time will tell," Lafferty said. "Politicians should remember that 'forgotten people' usually have long memories."
The world is obsessed with fad diets and weight loss, yet few of us know how a kilogram of fat actually vanishes off the scales. Even the 150 doctors, dietitians and personal trainers we surveyed shared this surprising gap in their health literacy . The most common misconception by far, was that fat is converted to energy. The problem with this theory is that it violates the law of conservation of matter, which all chemical reactions obey. Some respondents thought fat turns into muscle, which is impossible, and others assumed it escapes via the colon. Only three of our respondents gave the right answer, which means 98% of the health professionals in our survey could not explain how weight loss works. So if not energy, muscles or the loo, where does fat go? The enlightening facts about fat metabolism The correct answer is that fat is converted to carbon dioxide and water. You exhale the carbon dioxide and the water mixes into your circulation until it's lost as urine or sweat. If you lose 10 pounds of fat, precisely 8.4 pounds comes out through your lungs and the remaining 1.6 pounds turns into water. In other words, nearly all the weight we lose is exhaled. This surprises just about everyone, but actually, almost everything we eat comes back out via the lungs. Every carbohydrate you digest and nearly all the fats are converted to carbon dioxide and water. The same goes for alcohol. Protein shares the same fate, except for the small part that turns into urea and other solids, which you excrete as urine. The only thing in food that makes it to your colon undigested and intact is dietary fibre (think corn). Everything else you swallow is absorbed into your bloodstream and organs and, after that, it's not going anywhere until you've vaporised it. Kilograms in versus kilograms out We all learn that "energy in equals energy out" in high school. But energy is a notoriously confusing concept, even among health professionals and scientists who study obesity The reason we gain or lose weight is much less mysterious if we keep track of all the kilograms, too, not just those enigmatic kilojoules or calories. According to the latest government figures, Americans consume 3.55 kg (125 ounces) of food and beverages every day. Of that, 430 grams (about 15 ounces) is solid macronutrients , 17 grams (0.6 ounces) is fibre and the remaining 3.11 kg (110 ounces) is water What's not reported is that we inhale more than 660 grams (23 ounces) worth of oxygen, too, and this figure is equally important for your waistline. If you put 3.55 kg (125 ounces) of food and water into your body, plus 660 grams of oxygen (23 ounces), then 4.2 kg (148 ounces) of stuff needs to come back out, or you'll gain weight. If you're hoping to shed some weight, more than 4.1kg will have to go. The 430 grams (15.2 ounces) of carbohydrates, fats, protein and alcohol most Americans eat every day will produce exactly 770 grams (27.1 ounces) of carbon dioxide plus 290 grams (10.2 ounces) of water (about one cup) and about 31 grams (1.1 ounces) of urea and other solids excreted as urine. An average 75kg (165 pound) person's resting metabolic rate (the rate at which the body uses energy when the person isn't moving) produces about 590 grams (21 ounces) of carbon dioxide per day. No pill or potion you can buy will increase that figure, despite the bold claims you might have heard. The good news is that you exhale 200 grams (7 ounces) of carbon dioxide while you're fast asleep every night, so you've already breathed out a quarter of your daily target before you even step out of bed. Eat less, exhale more So if fat turns into carbon dioxide, could simply breathing more make you lose weight? Unfortunately not. Huffing and puffing more than you need to is called hyperventilation and will only make you dizzy, or possibly faint. The only way you can consciously increase the amount of carbon dioxide your body is producing is by moving your muscles. But here's some more good news. Simply standing up and getting dressed more than doubles your metabolic rate. In other words, if you simply tried on all your outfits for 24 hours, you'd exhale more than 1,200 grams (42 ounces) of carbon dioxide. More realistically, going for a walk triples your metabolic rate, and so will cooking, vacuuming and sweeping Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Metabolising 100 ounces of fat consumes 290 ounces of oxygen and produces 280 ounces of carbon dioxide plus 110 ounces of water. The food you eat can't change these figures. Therefore, to lose 100 ounces of fat, you have to exhale 280 ounces of carbon dioxide on top of what you'll produce by vaporising all your food, no matter what you eat. Any diet that supplies less "fuel" than you burn will do the trick, but with so many misconceptions about how weight loss works, few of us know why.
Not long ago, fat was the evil dietary villain. Before that it was salt. Now the sugar-free diet has exploded onto the health and wellness scene -- and seems to have topped many people's list of New Year's resolutions. Sugar-free diets encourage people to avoid table sugar (sucrose), sweeteners such as honey and maple syrup, refined flours, condiments, soft drinks, sweets and some fruits such as bananas. Some also recommend eliminating or restricting dairy products. The diet's advocates rightly note that excessive sugar consumption may lead to obesity and therefore increase the risk of type 2 diabetes, heart disease and some cancers. And it's true we are swallowing too much of the sweet stuff, with the average American consuming around 20 teaspoons of added sugar a day. But you don't need to quit sugar to lift your game on healthy eating. Quitting sugar is unlikely to improve your health any more than cutting down on ultra-processed foods, eating more vegetables, cooking food from scratch and limiting how much extra sugar you eat and drink. At best, the sugar-free diet is confusing and imposes an arbitrary set of rules that aren't based on scientific evidence. At worst, such a restrictive diet can create food fear or an unhealthy relationship with food. Diet mentality The sugar-free diet is restrictive, with lists of "allowed" foods (such as whole grains, blueberries and grapefruits) and "not allowed" foods (such as white bread, bananas and raisins). This inadvertently promotes a diet mentality and causes followers to worry about accidentally eating something that's not allowed. People who worry about food are more likely to diet. This may be because they are worried specifically about their weight, or about the impact certain nutrients have on their health. Research shows dieting is not effective over the long term and can lead to greater weight gain over time. The brain interprets dieting and restriction as a famine , which causes the storage of fat for future shortages. Dieting is stressful. In response to this, our body releases stress hormones such as cortisol , which may cause the body to store fat, particularly in the abdominal area. Worrying about food can lead to stress , anxiety and depression, and is one of the defining features of the condition known as orthorexia Orthorexia is the overwhelming preoccupation with eating healthily. People with orthorexia spend a lot of time thinking and worrying about food and eliminating foods that are deemed impure or unhealthy. Some experts suggest this behaviour is a precursor to, or a form of, an eating disorder. Estimates suggest anywhere between 7% and 58% of the population may have the condition. There are no clear diagnostic criteria, which makes it difficult to measure its prevalence. But we know 15% of women will experience an eating disorder at some stage in their life. So we need to ensure nutrition advice, however well-intentioned, doesn't promote or encourage disordered eating. Cutting out the good stuff Some sugar-free diets advise people to cut out or restrict healthy foods and food groups such as fruit and dairy, without evidence to support their exclusion. This perpetuates the food fear/dietary restriction cycle and may contribute to nutrient deficiencies. These diets also recommend people avoid fruit for a period of time , and then re-introduce a limited list of expensive "healthy" fruits (such as berries) while avoiding the cheaper "unhealthy" fruits such as bananas. Whole fruit is a wonderful source of fibre, essential vitamins and minerals, as well as antioxidants. Two serves of fruit per day can reduce the risk of developing some cancers, type 2 diabetes and heart disease. Given American adults only consume half their daily requirements for fruit, the advice to restrict fruit further could result in people missing out on these benefits. Many sugar-free followers also avoid plain dairy products such as milk, yoghurt and cheese, due to the assumption these contain sugars. The sugar in plain dairy products is the natural lactose (a carbohydrate), which is nothing to fear. Unnecessarily avoiding dairy may increase the risk of osteoporosis if not replaced with adequate levels of calcium from other sources. Sugar replacements Strangely, many of the sugar-free recipes use expensive sugar alternatives -- such as rice malt syrup (due to its low fructose content), maple syrup (which is sometimes allowed and sometimes not) and dates -- to replace sugar. However, these are still sugars and contain the same number of calories per gram as any other sugar. These alternatives offer no additional nutritional benefits other than rice malt syrup, which is a useful option only for those with a fructose malabsorption issue, and dates, which contain fibre. People often eat more of the food containing these alternatives under the guise of it being sugar-free , which could lead to unintentional weight gain. One study found people ate about 35% more of a snack when it was perceived as healthy than when it was seen as unhealthy. What to do instead Eat plenty of plants, enjoy whole grains, beans and legumes. Fruit is your friend -- not your enemy. Most people could probably eat a little less sugar, a little less often, but you don't have to quit it for good to be healthy. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Savour every mouthful of that chocolate cake or "sometimes food". Turn off technology and eat the cake mindfully, so that your brain can register that you have eaten it. That way you can get pleasure and satisfaction from it, and you won't be craving it again an hour later. No matter how we choose to eat, remember that health is not simply about the number on the scale, the size of our waist, or the foods we avoid. It's also about our psychological health and our relationship with food, which is just as important as our physical health.
Gene Seymour is a film critic who has written about music, movies and culture for The New York Times, Newsday, Entertainment Weekly and The Washington Post. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) If "Call me Ishmael" is the platinum standard for opening sentences in American fiction, then the following is the single greatest punch line in our nation's literary history: "Now vee may perhaps to begin. Yes?" That, as many of you may remember, is the capper to "Portnoy's Complaint," the 1969 novel that boosted Philip Roth's status from elite literary prodigy to best-selling phenomenon. The query is submitted by Dr. Spielvogel, the psychoanalyst to whom the novel's eponymous protagonist, Alexander Portnoy, has for the previous several hundred pages poured out his heart and soul in a sustained, wildly free-associating aria of bawdy reminiscence and intense self-loathing. In similar fashion, Roth's death at 85 leaves us at the end of a lengthy virtuoso performance thinking somewhat along the same lines as Spielvogel: Now, perhaps, we may begin to know who Philip Roth is and what he left behind. Which is neither as simple nor as tidy a task as it might first appear, given the depth and breadth of Roth's achievements -- and the furor that often accompanied them. He seemed to emerge in the 1950s as fully formed a literary stylist as his equally precocious contemporary John Updike. "Goodbye, Columbus," the novella and short story collection that won the first of what would be several National Book Awards for Roth, was hailed for felicitous writing and evocative portraits of post-World War II Jewish life. Many influential Jewish leaders also reviled it for what they believed were negative depictions of its characters. They also disapproved of "Portnoy's" raunchy portrayal of a prototypical "nice Jewish boy" struggling to break free of his parents' expectations. JUST WATCHED Innovative journalist Tom Wolfe dies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Innovative journalist Tom Wolfe dies 01:22 Yet the novel and its accompanying critical and popular success shook all restraint from its author, who for the rest of his life took audacious chances both with the flow of his writing style and in his explorations of both self and society. Roth was so prodigious and varied in his output that no shorthand characterization of his work would easily suffice, no matter how many times people would try. Too often, for example, book-chat mandarins would consider Roth a writer whose only concern were the vagaries of personal identity as he used such alter egos as Nathan Zuckerman and Peter Tarnopol in what seemed autobiographical novels. He always insisted they were more fiction than documentary: "Am I Zuckerman? Am I Portnoy?" he rhetorically (and coyly) asked an interviewer in 1981. "I could be, I suppose. I may be yet. As of now, I am nothing like so sharply delineated as a character in a book. I am still amorphous Roth." Yet there was nothing amorphous about the way Roth engaged the world, whether in "Our Gang," his impassioned, freewheeling 1971 burlesque about Richard Nixon's administration, or "The Counterlife," his 1986 tour de force in which his alternate "selves" are placed against a backdrop of tension and terror in Israel and Europe. Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'To Kill a Mockingbird' by Harper Lee Hide Caption 1 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – '1984' by George Orwell Hide Caption 2 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'A Brief History of Time' by Stephen Hawking Hide Caption 3 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius' by Dave Eggers Hide Caption 4 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'A Long Way Gone: Memoirs of a Boy Soldier' by Ishmael Beah Hide Caption 5 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'A Series of Unfortunate Events #1' by Lemony Snicket Hide Caption 6 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'A Wrinkle in Time' by Madeleine L'Engle Hide Caption 7 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Alice Munro: Selected Stories' by Alice Munro Hide Caption 8 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Alice in Wonderland' by Lewis Carroll Hide Caption 9 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'All the President's Men' by Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein Hide Caption 10 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Angela's Ashes: A Memoir' by Frank McCourt Hide Caption 11 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Are You There, God? It's me, Margaret' by Judy Blume Hide Caption 12 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Bel Canto' by Ann Patchett Hide Caption 13 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Beloved' by Toni Morrison Hide Caption 14 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Born To Run - A Hidden Tribe, Superathletes, and the Greatest Race the World Has Never Seen' by Christopher McDougall Hide Caption 15 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Catch-22' by Joseph Heller Hide Caption 16 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory' by Roald Dahl Hide Caption 17 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Charlotte's Web' by E.B. White Hide Caption 18 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Cutting For Stone' by Abraham Verghese Hide Caption 19 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Diary of a Wimpy Kid' by Jeff Kinney Hide Caption 20 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Dune' by Frank Herbert Hide Caption 21 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Fahrenheit 451' by Ray Bradbury Hide Caption 22 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream' by Hunter S. Thompson Hide Caption 23 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Goodnight Moon' by Margaret Wise Brown Hide Caption 24 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Great Expectations' by Charles Dickens Hide Caption 25 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies' by Jared M. Diamond Hide Caption 26 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone' by J.K. Rowling Hide Caption 27 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'In Cold Blood' by Truman Capote Hide Caption 28 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Interpreter of Maladies' by Jhumpa Lahiri Hide Caption 29 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Invisible Man' by Ralph Ellison Hide Caption 30 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Jimmy Corrigan: Smartest Kid on Earth' by Chris Ware Hide Caption 31 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Kitchen Confidential' by Anthony Bourdain Hide Caption 32 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Life After Life' by Kate Atkinson Hide Caption 33 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Little House on the Prairie' by Laura Ingalls Wilder Hide Caption 34 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Lolita' by Vladimir Nabokov Hide Caption 35 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Love in the Time of Cholera' by Gabriel Garcia Marquez Hide Caption 36 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Love Medicine' by Louise Erdrich Hide Caption 37 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Man's Search for Meaning' by Viktor Frankl Hide Caption 38 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Me Talk Pretty One Day' by David Sedaris Hide Caption 39 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Middlesex' by Jeffrey Eugenides Hide Caption 40 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Midnight's Children' by Salman Rushdie Hide Caption 41 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Moneyball' by Michael Lewis Hide Caption 42 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Of Human Bondage' by W. Somerset Maugham Hide Caption 43 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'On the Road' by Jack Kerouac Hide Caption 44 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Out of Africa' by Isak Dinesen Hide Caption 45 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Persepolis' by Marjane Satrapi Hide Caption 46 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Portnoy's Complaint' by Philip Roth Hide Caption 47 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Silent Spring' by Rachel Carson Hide Caption 48 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Slaughterhouse-Five' by Kurt Vonnegut Hide Caption 49 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Team of Rivals' by Doris Kearns Goodwin Hide Caption 50 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Age of Innocence' by Edith Wharton Hide Caption 51 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay' by Michael Chabon Hide Caption 52 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Autobiography of Malcolm X' by Malcolm X and Alex Haley Hide Caption 53 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao' by Junot Diaz Hide Caption 54 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Book Thief' by Markus Zusak Hide Caption 55 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Catcher in the Rye' by J.D. Salinger Hide Caption 56 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Color of Water' by James McBride Hide Caption 57 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Corrections' by Jonathan Franzen Hide Caption 58 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair that Changed America' by Erik Larson Hide Caption 59 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Diary of Anne Frank' by Anne Frank Hide Caption 60 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Fault in Our Stars' by John Green Hide Caption 61 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Giver' by Lois Lowry Hide Caption 62 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Daring Greatly: How the Courage to Be Vulnerable Transforms the Way We Live, Love, Parent, and Lead' by Brene Brown Hide Caption 63 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Golden Compass: His Dark Materials' by Philip Pullman Hide Caption 64 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Great Gatsby' by F. Scott Fitzgerald Hide Caption 65 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Handmaid's Tale' by Margaret Atwood Hide Caption 66 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Pride & Prejudice' by Jane Austen Hide Caption 67 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Hunger Games' by Suzanne Collins Hide Caption 68 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The House At Pooh Corner' by A. A. Milne Hide Caption 69 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks' by Rebecca Skloot Hide Caption 70 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Liars' Club: A Memoir' by Mary Karr Hide Caption 71 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Lightning Thief' by Rick Riordan Hide Caption 72 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Little Prince' by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry Hide Caption 73 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Long Goodbye' by Raymond Chandler Hide Caption 74 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11' by Lawrence Wright Hide Caption 75 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Lord of the Rings' by J.R.R. Tolkien Hide Caption 76 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat: And Other Clinical Tales' by Oliver Sacks Hide Caption 77 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals' by Michael Pollan Hide Caption 78 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Poisonwood Bible: A Novel' by Barbara Kingsolver Hide Caption 79 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York' by Robert A. Caro Hide Caption 80 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Right Stuff' by Tom Wolfe Hide Caption 81 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Road' by Cormac McCarthy Hide Caption 82 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Secret History' by Donna Tartt Hide Caption 83 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Shining' by Stephen King Hide Caption 84 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Sun Also Rises' by Ernest Hemingway Hide Caption 85 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Things They Carried' by Tim O'Brien Hide Caption 86 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Very Hungry Caterpillar' by Eric Carle Hide Caption 87 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Wind in the Willows' by Kenneth Grahame Hide Caption 88 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel' by Haruki Murakami Hide Caption 89 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The World According to Garp' by John Irving Hide Caption 90 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Year of Magical Thinking' by Joan Didion Hide Caption 91 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Things Fall Apart' by Chinua Achebe Hide Caption 92 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption' by Laura Hillenbrand Hide Caption 93 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Valley of the Dolls' by Jacqueline Susann Hide Caption 94 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Where the Sidewalk Ends' by Shel Silverstein Hide Caption 95 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Where the Wild Things Are' by Maurice Sendak Hide Caption 96 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Phantom Tollbooth' by Norton Juster Hide Caption 97 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'The Stranger' by Albert Camus Hide Caption 98 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Breath, Eyes, Memory' by Edwidge Danticat Hide Caption 99 of 100 Photos: Amazon's 100 best list Amazon's 100 best list – 'Gone Girl' by Gillian Flynn Hide Caption 100 of 100 And, most especially, the remarkable series of novels he wrote in his 60s, which, in varied ways, confronted the political and cultural history of 20th-century America with both humane warmth and messianic urgency: "American Pastoral" (1997), "I Married a Communist (1998), "The Human Stain" (2000) and "The Plot Against America" (2004), a chillingly reimagined view of World War II America whose reverberations have been felt most keenly in the Trump era. So how, Spielvogel-like, do we start confronting a body of work as daunting in range and ambition as Roth's? Perhaps appropriately with some irony: Back in 1960, when he was still a young literary gun on the rise, Roth delivered a controversial speech in which he said that postwar American reality had become too big, varied and chaotic for novelists to replicate persuasively for their readers. Thirty years later, Tom Wolfe , Roth's contemporary who died last week, countered by saying, in essence, that novelists, including Roth, had simply stopped trying to evoke what Wolfe termed "this wild, bizarre, unpredictable, Hog-stomping baroque country of ours." Leaving aside some of the verbiage, I think Wolfe was wrong when it came to Philip Roth. He did bring America to life for us in the grandest and most intimate terms possible. Assuming civilization lasts long enough to allow us to do so, we'll be picking up the pieces of his work for closer examination decades from now. So begin already!
It's no surprise that some in Albertville have trouble adjusting to the influx of immigrants, restaurant owner Reggie Daniel says. "They don't even like it if you change the menu, much less change their country or their city," he says. But Daniel says most people in Albertville have learned to recognize the value that immigrants bring. "If you were to deport them, the economy here would collapse." It's no surprise that some in Albertville have trouble adjusting to the influx of immigrants, restaurant owner Reggie Daniel says. "They don't even like it if you change the menu, much less change their country or their city," he says. But Daniel says most people in Albertville have learned to recognize the value that immigrants bring. "If you were to deport them, the economy here would collapse." "When I was in high school there were probably 10 Hispanic people in our school. Now my daughter's kindergarten class is 52% Hispanic," says Quinton Williams, executive pastor at LifePoint Church. "There's opportunity here. America was great and is great because of the opportunity it provides." "When I was in high school there were probably 10 Hispanic people in our school. Now my daughter's kindergarten class is 52% Hispanic," says Quinton Williams, executive pastor at LifePoint Church. "There's opportunity here. America was great and is great because of the opportunity it provides." Albertville Mayor Tracy Honea tries to take a positive approach toward immigrants in the community. "I truly believe folks need to be legal," he says, "but it's out of our control on a national level." Albertville Mayor Tracy Honea tries to take a positive approach toward immigrants in the community. "I truly believe folks need to be legal," he says, "but it's out of our control on a national level." Immigrant labor is a key ingredient in getting food onto most American tables, Monte Weldon says. "A lot of people would go hungry if they weren't there," she says. Immigrant labor is a key ingredient in getting food onto most American tables, Monte Weldon says. "A lot of people would go hungry if they weren't there," she says. Michael and Jenifer Rhoden are planning to vote for Donald Trump but say some of his statements about immigration are hard to stomach. Jenifer says it was tough to hear her 10-year-old daughter's reaction. "She told me, 'No, don't vote for Trump. My friends told me if he gets in office they'll send their moms and dads back to Mexico.' " Michael and Jenifer Rhoden are planning to vote for Donald Trump but say some of his statements about immigration are hard to stomach. Jenifer says it was tough to hear her 10-year-old daughter's reaction. "She told me, 'No, don't vote for Trump. My friends told me if he gets in office they'll send their moms and dads back to Mexico.' " The Rev. Guillermo Aristizabal says Albertville's growing immigrant population has made his parish one of the largest in the Southeast. About 2,800 families are members, and when there are big festivals, he says, "it looks like a Latin American town." The Rev. Guillermo Aristizabal says Albertville's growing immigrant population has made his parish one of the largest in the Southeast. About 2,800 families are members, and when there are big festivals, he says, "it looks like a Latin American town." Immigrants who've committed violent felonies should be deported, and there should be thorough background checks before anyone enters the country, Tina Langley says. "Then they can be US citizens. I'm good with that. " But the restaurant manager, 54, says she doesn't like that her grandchildren are being required to study Spanish in school. "I want them to have a choice," she says. "To me, it's like they're saying, you have to speak like they do." Immigrants who've committed violent felonies should be deported, and there should be thorough background checks before anyone enters the country, Tina Langley says. "Then they can be US citizens. I'm good with that. " But the restaurant manager, 54, says she doesn't like that her grandchildren are being required to study Spanish in school. "I want them to have a choice," she says. "To me, it's like they're saying, you have to speak like they do." "You can't just open the floodgates to every nationality and ethnic group. And I think that's what's happened," Marlin Murphy says. "Our country's lost control." The military veteran and retired construction company owner says he's particularly worried about Muslim immigrants coming into the United States. "I think they're a threat and a danger to this country because they're out to kill us." "You can't just open the floodgates to every nationality and ethnic group. And I think that's what's happened," Marlin Murphy says. "Our country's lost control." The military veteran and retired construction company owner says he's particularly worried about Muslim immigrants coming into the United States. "I think they're a threat and a danger to this country because they're out to kill us." Louis Rejouit's store caters to Albertville's Haitian population, which has grown in recent years as chicken plants in the area started recruiting refugees. Louis Rejouit's store caters to Albertville's Haitian population, which has grown in recent years as chicken plants in the area started recruiting refugees. Even when tensions over immigration boiled over in Albertville, officials worked hard to keep them out of the schools, Albertville High School Principal Deidra Robinson says. "Diversity," she says, "is a strength." Even when tensions over immigration boiled over in Albertville, officials worked hard to keep them out of the schools, Albertville High School Principal Deidra Robinson says. "Diversity," she says, "is a strength." Chuck Ellis supported ordinances aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration when he was on Albertville's City Council. Now, he says, the government needs to do a better job of screening people before they enter the country and figuring out who's already here. "If we're not diligent and making sure that people are coming in that have been vetted, we're going to mess up," he says. "We can't have open borders." Chuck Ellis supported ordinances aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration when he was on Albertville's City Council. Now, he says, the government needs to do a better job of screening people before they enter the country and figuring out who's already here. "If we're not diligent and making sure that people are coming in that have been vetted, we're going to mess up," he says. "We can't have open borders." "There's never going to be an American doing the work I do. I'm not stealing anyone's job," says Freddy Salazar, who works in a chicken plant. His wife, Nancy, a preschool teacher, says people who criticize immigrants in Albertville are racist. "There's never going to be an American doing the work I do. I'm not stealing anyone's job," says Freddy Salazar, who works in a chicken plant. His wife, Nancy, a preschool teacher, says people who criticize immigrants in Albertville are racist. Danny Maltbie, a volunteer at the Albertville Museum, says it's time for the city to move forward and accept immigrants. "They're good people," he says. "Let's make them part of our society." Danny Maltbie, a volunteer at the Albertville Museum, says it's time for the city to move forward and accept immigrants. "They're good people," he says. "Let's make them part of our society." Sandra Langlois says an influx of illegal immigrants has made it harder to find work in Albertville, Alabama. "It's unfair," she says. More than a quarter of this town's residents are Hispanic, and they have different views about the impact immigration has on the community. Sandra Langlois says an influx of illegal immigrants has made it harder to find work in Albertville, Alabama. "It's unfair," she says. More than a quarter of this town's residents are Hispanic, and they have different views about the impact immigration has on the community. Albertville, Alabama (CNN) -- There's one question Sandra Langlois is sick of hearing in job interviews. "Do you speak Spanish?" Langlois doesn't -- and doesn't think she should have to. At 42, she already speaks two languages. Born in Germany, she moved to Pennsylvania as a child and learned to speak English fluently. She thought that would be enough to get a job in the United States. Now, as she waits for an interview at the Albertville unemployment office, she's not sure it will be. Hispanic immigrants, she says, have transformed the state she's called home for decades. And the ones who came to the United States illegally, she says, make a tough job market even tougher. Langlois needs to find work, and fast: Her family is living in a motel after the power company turned out the lights in their trailer. She's sharing a car and cell phone with her father-in-law. The Spanish question, she says, has abruptly ended more than one interview. She hopes it won't throw her out of the running this time, too. "It's kind of, really, discrimination," she says. "If you're not here legally, then you need to go ahead and go back home. ... They need to come over here the right way. Don't sneak over. Don't stay here." It's a sentiment that runs deep through some circles of this largely white, working-class town, which made headlines as the epicenter of Alabama's efforts to crack down on illegal immigration. Five years later, people in Albertville are still split over the changes they've seen -- and what they think should happen next. So is the country. Working-class whites -- a group some analysts say could play a decisive role in the presidential election -- are far more likely than others to say immigrants who arrived illegally should be deported. More than half (55%) say that's something the government should attempt, compared with 27% of white college grads. Those statistics don't surprise Glenda Barnes. The 70-year-old Albertville resident says she moved out of her neighborhood when immigrants started moving in. Her street started to go downhill, she says, as people crammed cars onto lawns and stopped taking care of homes. "If you lived here, you'd understand," she says. "Our town was so neat, a nice little town. Now it's like we don't care, and everything's falling in." Rachel Zavaleta isn't surprised by the numbers either. The 29-year-old still remembers what people shouted at her on the playground when she came to Albertville with her family nearly 20 years ago: Go back to Mexico. Albertville bills itself as "the Fire Hydrant Capital of the World," but it's better known for its poultry processing plants. A changing landscape Debates about deporting immigrants who came here illegally aren't just political talking points in Albertville; they're personal. This is a city where officials tried hard to force them out, in a state where lawmakers passed the toughest law in the country aimed at doing the same thing. Five years later, even people who don't see eye to eye on immigration can agree on one thing: It didn't work. Albertville proudly bills itself as "the Fire Hydrant Capital of the World," for the Mueller factory that's manufactured millions there. But across the state, it's better known for another industry: poultry processing plants, which employ thousands of workers -- many of them immigrants. More than a quarter of the town's roughly 22,000 residents are Hispanic. And Alabama's 2011 immigration law scared many people who'd found jobs in the area. Terrified they'd be rounded up and deported, they abandoned homes, pulled their kids out of school and moved to other states. Neighborhoods were left nearly empty. Shopping districts became ghost towns. But in 2012, a federal appeals court gutted much of the law , ruling that parts of it were unconstitutional, including a requirement that public schools determine the immigration status of students and parents. Albertville by the numbers 21,462 Population 6,391 Hispanic population (29.8%) 14,363 White, non-Latino population (66.9%) 3,792 Foreign-born population (17.7%) 71.9% High school graduate or higher 14% Bachelor's degree or higher 5.2% Unemployment rate (Marshall County) Sources: US Census Bureau estimates, Alabama Department of Labor Now, Albertville's Latino immigrant population is thriving once again. A growing number of Haitian refugees, recruited by chicken plants in recent years, have moved to the city, too. The large Catholic church where thousands pray in Spanish every Sunday just paid off its new $1.2 million building, thanks to donations from the congregation. Eateries serving tacos and tamales are easier to find in some parts of the city than restaurants offering grits or fried catfish. The relationships between residents -- and the approaches local leaders take -- have changed. But it doesn't take long to see that tensions are still simmering. Stop by the basketball court where Mexican workers are shooting hoops, and you'll hear how afraid they are that Donald Trump might be president , and what it was like a few years back when people couldn't get water or electricity in their homes unless they could prove they were here legally. Sit for a moment in the Little League stands nearby, and a woman flipping through a coupon book as she leans back in a lawn chair will tell you how immigrants should stop speaking Spanish and sucking benefits from the system. Step into a shopping mall off the busy four-lane highway through town, and you'll see immigrants searching for the right words in an English class as they talk with their teacher about what foods to eat on American holidays and how fast the cashiers speak at Walmart. Cross the parking lot to visit the unemployment office, and you'll hear some people say the influx of immigrants gave the region's economy a boost, while others grumble it cost them their jobs. "I think they should have to learn to speak like we do," says a woman who didn't want to be identified. 'There's plenty of jobs' Langlois runs her fingers through her hair as she scans the bulletin board at the unemployment office, looking for a lead. Could she be a dishwasher or a welder? Will she go back to working at a chicken plant? Is there any other choice? As an immigrant herself, Langlois says she's had to follow strict rules and make sure her documents are in order when she applies for jobs. And she resents immigrants who came to the United States illegally for finding ways to skirt the system. Programming Note White, Working Class & Worried is a CNN partnership with the Kaiser Family Foundation - an extensive survey of white, working class Americans and voters. Watch Anderson Cooper 360 and CNN.com for reports throughout the week. "It's just not fair," she says. "It's like they're getting special treatment." The CNN/KFF poll found that working-class whites were significantly more likely than other groups to say illegal immigration had directly affected them. More than a quarter (27%) say their family has been negatively affected by undocumented immigrants taking jobs in their community, and among this group, 8 in 10 want the government to deport all undocumented immigrants. The trend is even stronger in the South. Working-class whites in this part of the United States are about twice as likely as those in other regions to say they've been affected (40% vs. 18% to 22% in other regions). One possible explanation: The South is where demographers say they've seen the greatest growth in foreign-born and Hispanic populations in recent years. But not everyone thinks immigration in the area hurts a shot at getting a job. "There's plenty of jobs. You've just got to want to do it," Ronnie Wise says as he waits for an interview after filling out an application at the unemployment office. "A lot of people don't want to, and they (immigrants) will. If it weren't for them, we wouldn't have any chicken plants here." If he meets immigrants who need work, Wise says he knows just what he'll do. Help them. Belt buckles inside a display case at an Albertville gift shop show the city's changing demographics. 'There are so many of us' Two belt buckles sit side by side in a glass display case at a gift shop on Main Street. One is a Confederate battle flag. The other says "Hecho en Mexico" -- Made in Mexico. A Mexican family searches for shoes in the back of the store. An American woman circles the store and ends up at the cash register with an ashtray and a bottle of perfume called Love. As she works the front counter at the Gift on Main/El Regalo, Rachel Zavaleta says it's great to see customers from different backgrounds shopping at the store. Times have changed, she says, since the city and state tried to push out immigrants. "Sometimes, you still get a dirty look when you go somewhere. But they don't do it as much, probably because they'd have to be giving dirty looks all day, since there are so many of us," she says. But Trump's campaign is already rekindling friction, she says, in an area where he is heavily favored to win. "You hear people talk, even your friends or people you know, about getting rid of immigrants. They're telling that to us, not realizing that we're Hispanic," she says. "It doesn't click in their heads how it would be affecting us." A Hispanic mayor? Fox News anchors rattle off headlines on TV as Joe Lusk gets ready to dig into his breakfast. After a waitress places his plate on the table, he bows his head in prayer. The 59-year-old fence company owner is a lifelong Albertville resident. And he often stops to eat at this family-run restaurant, where a sign hanging by the front door pays tribute to "Southern living, where the tea is sweet, our words are long, the days are warm and our faith is strong." Lately, he says, the topic of immigration has been coming up more often at the breakfast table. Lusk sees the growing presence of immigrants in Albertville as a clash of cultures that's gradually gotten worse. "There's no place," he says, "to really be away from them anymore." There's no doubt that most immigrants work hard and mean well, he says. But Lusk sees immigrants as a burden. So do nearly half (47%) of the white, working-class people polled, compared with 20% of white college grads. He says immigrants are draining the school and health care systems, and that some of them have brought crime to the city. Those who came illegally should be sent back, he says, but they probably never will be -- given how much of a financial interest many companies have in keeping them around. "If they legalize," he says, "we'll probably have a Hispanic mayor in 10 years." The Albertville Museum displays major moments in the city's history, but so far the exhibits haven't mentioned immigration. 'Let's move forward' Just a few blocks from the center of Albertville, a historical marker in front of the city's museum talks about migration. But it's referring to people who moved to this mountain town from Georgia and Tennessee in the 1800s. It wasn't until about 30 years ago, museum board member Danny Maltbie says, that immigrants from other countries started trickling in. Maltbie spends a lot of time digging up information about Albertville's history. Visit the retired automotive plant electrician while he's volunteering at the museum and he'll tell you about devastating tornadoes that ripped off roofs and forced the city to rebuild -- twice. He'll tell you that the railroad rumbling through town changed everything, bringing fertilizer for the first time and giving farmers the chance to grow crops in the tough mountain soil. He'll tell you that the arrival of the chicken plants decades ago boosted the economy and eventually brought thousands of immigrants here. And he'll tell you how happy he was to give a recent tour of the town cemetery to a class of high school students learning to speak English. "I thought that was a very good thing that those kids came to see our museum and learn about our history," he says. Now, he says, it's their history, too. "They're here," he says. "Let's accept them. Let's move forward." Local legend has it that signs near the US-Mexico border once informed immigrants that jobs were waiting for them in Albertville. Whether that's how they ended up here, there's no doubt they left their mark on the city once they arrived. The museum's volunteer board has debated how to deal with the influx. Inside the one-room museum, there are displays about the town's founder, its Main Street and its small African-American population. But immigration is a topic that hasn't yet been touched on the museum's walls. It's a sensitive issue, museum board member Glenda Wooten says, and they're still trying to sort out the right wording. This month, volunteers added a new entry to the official timeline they hand out to visitors: "1992: First Hispanics moved to Albertville from Mexico to work in the chicken plants. The children were enrolled in the school system, speaking no English and local administrators and teachers did not speak Spanish. Soon, Albertville City Schools' enrollment for Mexicans/Hispanic students was one of the largest in the state." About 40% of students at Albertville High School are Hispanic. The principal says diversity prepares kids for the real world. 'Diversity is a strength' About 40% of Albertville High School's more than 1,300 students are Hispanic, Principal Deidra Robinson says. Students from different backgrounds didn't used to mingle much, she says, but now they stand shoulder to shoulder on the football field and sit together in the cafeteria. "They just grew up together," she says. And even when tension in the community has boiled over, she says, officials worked hard to keep it out of the schools. "We don't let immigration or the diversity of our school be a barrier to our success," she says. "We see it as part of our success. ... It's helping prepare our students for the real world." A majority (60%) of working-class whites in the CNN/KFF poll say increasing diversity is enriching American culture. But 33% view diversity as a threat, and 38% say increasing diversity is harmful because "some people feel like they no longer belong." Robinson says teachers in Albertville make sure everyone has a place. The school system has programs dedicated to helping newcomers who are still learning English, she says, and most immigrants who need the classes are quick learners. There's one figure Robinson says she frequently mentions to skeptical parents and community members as she fights the misconception that large amounts of school resources are being spent on immigrants. Only about 10% of her students are still learning English, she says. "When somebody asks a question, they try to make it about color. I just go to turning it around. ... Most of them are actually proficient in both languages," she says. "That's a comfort to some people." 'I believe in the rule of law' Chuck Ellis thinks of the way his 11-year-old daughter, Marli, wakes up in the morning. She's full of joy when she gets out of bed, he says, knowing things will turn out OK no matter what happens during her school day. But Ellis knows dangers could be lurking. That fear takes hold every time he thinks of the man Marli is named for: his brother-in-law, Marlin Strange, who was shot dead 17 years ago. A Mexican immigrant charged in the slaying is on the FBI's list of most wanted fugitives. Illegal immigration, Ellis says, brought more drugs, crime and prostitution to Albertville. Houses were overrun, with people cramming into buildings and sleeping in shifts. "It became crazy how many problems we ran into," says Ellis, a state trooper who was on the Albertville City Council from 2008 to 2012. "I'm not racist," Ellis says. "I believe in the rule of law." While in office, Ellis made fighting illegal immigration a priority. Public safety, he says, was his aim. It's a concern for many Americans when they talk about immigration. About half (49%) of white working-class Americans think Latin American immigrants increase crime in communities, according to the CNN/KFF poll. That's higher than other groups polled; among white college grads the number is 32%. Along with the city's then-mayor, Ellis supported ordinances that made English the official language, booted taco trucks from operating on Main Street, limited the number of people who could live inside a home and ordered store signs to include English translations. And he invited someone to Albertville to help the city take more substantive measures: Kris Kobach, a prominent conservative attorney who made a name for himself helping governments across the country craft laws to crack down on illegal immigration. In the end, the city decided not to hire Kobach. But Alabama legislators did; he was one of the primary architects of the state's immigration law. And Ellis is proud of inviting him to Albertville. He still has a copy of a newspaper front page that shows him shaking Kobach's hand. Ellis isn't on the City Council anymore; he lost his bid for re-election in 2012. But he's considering another run for county sheriff (he lost his bid to unseat the incumbent in 2014). Rounding up millions of immigrants who entered the United States illegally and deporting them isn't feasible, he says. But more needs to be known about who's already here. "The big thing is the vetting process, making sure that people have done the right things, that people don't have illnesses, that people aren't bad people," he says, "because we've got enough bad people in the country without letting in more." Freddy and Nancy Salazar relax at home with son Aydan, 2. "There is no racism between children," Freddy Salazar says. 'I'm not stealing anyone's job' Nancy Salazar says she'll never shake how it felt to live in Albertville when city and state leaders took aim at illegal immigration. Even though she was born in the United States, Salazar says she felt the glaring heat of racism then. And sometimes, she still does. Hard-working immigrants are the bedrock of Albertville's economy, she says, and it's unfair to blame them for crime in the city or anywhere else. "We are not what they think," she says. "They are just outraged Hispanics have something." In English, Salazar speaks with the smooth lilt of a Southern belle. And in Spanish, her words slice through the air with the sharp precision of a native speaker. The 30-year-old preschool teacher, who was born in Florida to parents who immigrated to the United States from Mexico, sees the importance of keeping traditions alive. On the wall of her living room, her high school senior picture shows her wearing the silver dangly earrings she'd put on for cheerleading practice; she's still embarrassed she forgot to wear pearls that day. Nearby, she keeps a large Virgin of Guadalupe figure standing next to a big-screen TV. Her husband, Freddy, who was born in Mexico, says he's worked hard in difficult conditions to become a supervisor at a nearby poultry plant. His fingers are so swollen from his years on the job that he struggled to get a ring on his finger when the couple recently renewed their marriage vows. "The racists are the ones who don't know the work that we do. They judge without knowing. ... There's never going to be an American doing the work I do. I'm not stealing anyone's job," he says. "There simply is work." Fruits and veggies are plentiful at the Albertville Farmers Market. One vendor says immigrants work hard harvesting crops. 'An invaluable resource' Monte Weldon walks over to a giant Scrabble board on the ground just a few steps from her stall at the Albertville Farmers Market and spells out T-O-M-A-T-O. It's one of many crops Americans wouldn't have a chance to enjoy, she says, without immigrant labor. "They get a bad rap, but you know what, a lot of people would go hungry if they weren't there," she says. "They're an invaluable resource." As she sells tomatoes, okra and black-eyed peas, Weldon says she usually tries to steer clear of arguments over immigration. It's one of those issues where people never seem willing to listen or change their minds. Instead, she focuses on her children. "I taught my kids to understand about different people, different ways to believe. I raised my children in church," she said. "We're not God. It's not our place to judge." The color of your skin doesn't matter, she says, and everyone's blood is red. 'We're a community' "How are we all going to live together here?" That's the question the exasperated publisher of a local newspaper asked back in 2009 at a town meeting as residents and local leaders sparred over immigration. Back then, it seemed like the fury might never die down. Now, while national debate over immigration rages, many in this city have settled for a reluctant truce. Some hope they'll have another shot at getting their way. And others wonder if they're experiencing the uneasy calm that comes before a storm they won't be able to stop. Lindsey Lyons led Albertville's efforts to crack down on illegal immigration and trumpeted the state's law on national media. As mayor, he kept a US Border Patrol baseball cap on display in his City Hall office. Lyons, who lost his post in 2012, declined to comment for this story. When he spoke with CNN in 2011 , he said he had run for office because he was tired of the DUIs, drug trafficking and gang activity that he saw immigrants bringing to Albertville. "We have a right and moral responsibility," he said, "to protect our citizens and our quality of life." Tracy Honea, who ousted Lyons and just won re-election, says when it comes to immigration, he's doing his best to play the hand he was dealt. "I truly believe folks need to be legal," he says, "but it's out of our control on a national level." Honea says he tries to take a positive approach as mayor. "We've worked really hard at trying to create an atmosphere that we're a community, and it's a growing community," he says. On his office wall, Honea keeps a framed photo of Ronald Reagan riding a white horse that he was thrilled to win at a silent auction. Beneath the photo is a quote from the former US President's 1985 State of the Union address: "Freedom is not the sole prerogative of a chosen few; it is the universal right of all God's children." Earlier this year, a class of high school students learning English visited City Hall. Honea fielded questions from them inside the City Council's chambers. And in a class photo outside, he stood behind them, smiling.
In a shocking sting operation, Cobrapost, a news website known for its investigative journalism and sting operations, has allegedly found that mobile wallet company Paytm provided personal data of its users to a political party on the request from PMO during stone pelting protests in Jammu and Kashmir. Senior Vice President of the company Ajay Shekhar is purportedly shown in a sting operation video telling Cobrapost that the PMO wanted personal data of Paytm's users to find out if some of the users were those who pelted stones during protests in Kashmir last year. However, HuffPost India could not independently verify the authenticity of the video. It must noted that government action against stone pelters in Kashmir with pellet guns had drawn severe criticism from all quarters including the United Nations. Many had been killed and further more and been blinded and maimed by pellet guns used by the armed forces. "When the stone-pelting stopped there in J&K, I personally got a phone call from the PMO. They told us to give them data saying maybe some of the stone-pelters are Paytm users," Shekhar alledly told the under cover journalist. #MediaOnSale : Vijay Shekhar of paytm revealed that how they provided the data of their users to a political party, on the order of PMO. pic.twitter.com/6uMtJ6f3QG — Cobrapost (@cobrapost) May 25, 2018 This revelation is in direct violation of the Paytm privacy policy that states: We will not sell, share or rent your personal information to any 3rd party or use your email address/mobile number for unsolicited emails and/or SMS. Any emails and/or SMS sent by Paytm will only be in connection with the provision of agreed services & products and this Privacy Policy. Periodically, we may reveal general statistical information about Paytm & its users, such as number of visitors, number and type of goods and services purchased, etc. We reserve the right to communicate your personal information to any third party that makes a legally-compliant request for its disclosure. Shekhar reportedly told this to the under cover journalist when he met him and other senior officials on the pretext of being sent by the Sangathan (RSS) "to fulfill the assignment received directly from the Sangathan under a "gupt vyavastha" or secret arrangement". During their meeting the top bosses of Paytm also allegedly spoke about their personal relations with the RSS. He is alleged to have said during the video, "RSS is in my blood, I have attended RSS shakhas too." It was reported by Tech Crunch last year that Paytm had 230 million users in India. A registered user has to complete their KYC with providing two government ids (Aadhaar, Passport, PAN card, Ration Card) for them to be able to use the app and make transfers to other people. While Paytm promises to keep such data secure, Shekhar's alleged comments have revealed that users are at the risk of being targeted and their data like Aadhaar and bank account numbers being shared. Watch the video where Shekhar is purpotedly speaking about his affiliations and also about sharing Paytm user date with the PMO: This exposé is a part of Operation 136 that appear to show how the top bosses of prominent media houses including the Times of India, India Today, Hindustan Times, Zee News, Network 18, Star India, ABP News, Dainik Jagaran, Radio One, Red FM, Lokmat, ABN Andhra Jyothy, TV5, Dinamalar, Big FM, K News, India Voice, The New Indian Express, MVTV and Open magazine were ready to run a campaign that had the potential to cause communal disharmony and turn public favour towards the ruling BJP. Cobrapost has published video recordings of the big bosses of the above mentioned media houses who reportedly agreed to run the campaign. However, according to the Cobrapost report, the Dainik Bhaskar Group got an injunction from the Delhi High Court stopping Cobrapost from publishing its investigations on the organisation. Cobrapost's exposé raises questions about how the BJP and its parent Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh are furthering their agenda of Hindutva politics and trying to create a polarisation in a way that can be harmful to the society and influence the upcoming elections in 2019. Read the entire story about the sting operation by Cobrapost here.
Kathryn Vomero Santos ( @kathrynvsantos ) is a scholar of early modern literature and culture who teaches English and co-directs the women, gender and sexuality studies program at Texas A&M University--Corpus Christi. She will be joining the faculty at Trinity University in August. The views expressed in this commentary are solely hers. So said Benedict Cumberbatch recently about working on any project where women and men don't receive equal pay. His comments came on the heels of a rally at the Cannes Film Festival calling for gender equality in the film industry. Cumberbatch's remarks also come at a time when storytelling is changing how we think about feminism, the monarchy and the role of history in our daily lives. When it was revealed that actor Claire Foy, who played the role of Queen Elizabeth II in the first two seasons of the Netflix show "The Crown," was paid significantly less than her male co-star and on-screen husband, Matt Smith, suddenly, the gender pay gap that women have been tirelessly pointing to for decades was thrown into stark relief: The queen -- the lead of all leads -- was not the one making the most money. After their unsatisfying apology prompted a fan petition, the show's production company Left Bank Pictures released a statement to the Daily Mail that expressed their commitment to "the fight for fair pay" and indicated that Foy would receive £200,000 in back pay, a gesture that will hopefully set a material precedent for fairly compensating women in entertainment and other industries. It would seem that we are finally having the conversations that, as Foy herself put it , "people think we've always been able to have, but we haven't." The decision to give Foy back pay for her undercompensated work is one that should be applauded, but it will only really pay off if it becomes a model for examining the structural inequities of the past and taking action to close gaps in both pay and opportunity for more than just those who wear the crown. As the continued success and impact of Lin-Manuel Miranda's hit musical "Hamilton" has recently reminded us, dramatizing history is rarely ever about the past alone. In ways that the creators of art and entertainment cannot always anticipate, historical dramas on both stage and screen often expose the deep roots of present tensions about race, class and gender. And they do so while allowing us -- if not explicitly inviting us -- to imagine a different and more just future, to have the conversations we haven't been able to have yet. As compelling and well produced as it is, "The Crown" is a show about an institution that to many feels outdated and out of touch with the lived realities and political turmoil of the 21st century. But with the news of the show's gender pay gap issues in the spotlight, royal history has unexpectedly become a vehicle for thinking not just about the past but about our present gender politics as we continue to fight for a future in which women -- and not only women in Hollywood or white women -- are paid equally for equal (and sometimes more) work. Telling stories about the past, it turns out, pays off. Given the show's interest in dramatic retellings of recent British history, it is hardly surprising that season 2 would conclude with the words of the writer who made telling such stories an enduring art form: William Shakespeare. As the royal family poses to commemorate the christening of the then latest royal babies, Prince Edward and Lady Sarah Armstrong-Jones, photographer Cecil Beaton recites John of Gaunt's famous patriotic monologue from Shakespeare's "Richard II," which celebrates the former glory of "this England" in order to lament its fallen state under Richard's misrule: This royal throne of kings, this sceptered isle, This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars, This other Eden, demi-paradise, This fortress built by Nature for herself Against infection and the hand of war, This happy breed of men, this little world, [...] This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England. Viewers of "The Crown" who are familiar with "Richard II" might sense the uncomfortable irony of invoking a story about a weak monarch who is deposed and killed -- but the choice to close the season with a nod to this particular play is a fitting one indeed. It's an appropriate ending because more than any other of Shakespeare's plays, Richard II links the crown as an object to the problem of the "king's two bodies," the Tudor legal concept (introduced to scholars by medieval historian Ernst Kantorowicz ) that each monarch's mortal body is joined by coronation with the monarchy's divinely ordained political body. In both its narrative arc and the social controversies its stars' salaries have engendered, "The Crown" has offered today's audiences the opportunity to consider the meaning of the queen's two bodies -- as a woman and as the body politic -- and the bodies of women as they have become increasingly present in today's political landscape. Season 2 of "The Crown" premiered late in 2017 well before the flurry of news coverage of Saturday's royal wedding and the social media commentary on the most recent royal baby , but the show seems to anticipate these conversations about the public role of royal women's bodies. As the final episode concludes with Elizabeth's last and "complicated" pregnancy, which forced her to step away from her official duties until she gave birth, it literalizes a line from Gaunt's speech that immediately follows the selection that closed the season: "This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings." Taking pains to remind its audiences about the physical realities of pregnancy (which to some women, the Duchess of Cambridge so recently seemed to defy by leaving the hospital in heels just hours after giving birth), "The Crown" calls attention to the multiple roles that a woman in a position of political or cultural power must play. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook The royal family and Shakespeare are arguably the two most famous British exports, and both deserve to be asked versions of same questions in our present moment: Are they still relevant? And to whom? Why should we pay any attention to cultural institutions that feel so outdated and seemingly unrelated to what we care about today?
Story highlights Mosul completely freed from ISIS Aid groups are providing ongoing support to Iraqis affected by crisis (CNN) "From here, from the heart of the liberated and free Mosul, by the sacrifices of the Iraqis from all the provinces, we declare the great victory for all of Iraq and Iraqis," Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said Monday. In 2014, ISIS captured Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city. This past October, Iraqi forces began offensive to retake the city. Since then, intense fighting made life unbearable for Mosul's civilians. The bloodshed caused significant displacement of people caught in the crossfire. More than 742,000 people left Mosul, according to the UN. Even though the battle for Mosul is over, many people are at risk of severe psychological damage , including children. And access to clean water, food and medicine is still needed during the recovery process. Click the take action button below to help those in Iraq affected by the crisis:
Story highlights Orlando mass killing fits grim pattern of homegrown terrorism, writes Peter Bergen Since 9/11, every attack on U.S. soil was carried out by citizen or legal permanent resident, he writes Peter Bergen is CNN's national security analyst, a vice president at New America and a professor of practice at Arizona State University. He is the author of the new book "United States of Jihad: Investigating America's Homegrown Terrorists." (CNN) The mass killing in Orlando this weekend fits a grim pattern: Every lethal terrorist attack in the United States in the past decade and a half has been carried out by American citizens or legal permanent residents, operating either as lone wolves or in pairs, who have no formal connections or training from terrorist organizations such as al Qaeda or ISIS. Because 9/11 was carried out by 19 Arab foreign-born terrorists, many Americans may think that terrorist attacks in the United States are carried out by foreigners, rather than by U.S. citizens. But Omar Mateen, who on Sunday carried out the deadliest terrorist attack in the United States since 9/11, is an American citizen who was born in New York to parents who immigrated to the United States from Afghanistan. In fact, since 9/11, a plot which was directed by al Qaeda from Afghanistan and involved only foreign operatives, the real terror threat in the United States has been American citizens or legal permanent residents such as the Tsarnaev brothers, who carried out the Boston Marathon bombings in 2013, and Nidal Hasan, the U.S. Army major who killed 13 at Fort Hood, Texas, four years earlier. In other ways, Mateen is also typical of jihadist terrorists in the States. He was on the radar of the FBI as a possible militant, just as Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who was investigated by the bureau because of a tip from the Russian government in 2011 that he might be a militant. Read More
Just weeks after federal prosecutors in the Russia investigation raided the home of former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort last year, President Donald Trump pardoned political ally and fellow “birther” Joe Arpaio. Within days of his personal lawyer’s offices being searched in April, Trump pardoned Lewis “Scooter” Libby of his 2007 perjury and obstruction of justice conviction for his role in disclosing the name of a CIA agent. And hours after revelations that a former FBI official had turned over a potentially damaging memo to special counsel Robert Mueller, Trump on Thursday morning announced his pardon of conservative activist Dinesh D’Souza. Setting the new case apart from the others: D’Souza had actually pleaded guilty to the charges against him ― making his pardon, say Trump critics, a clear sign to the handful of former Trump aides who have pleaded guilty in the Russia probe and are now cooperating with Mueller’s team. “The president is sending a blazing signal to his surrogates and associates that they will be rewarded if they stay loyal,” said Lisa Gilbert, head of legislative affairs for the open government group Public Citizen. “The precedent is particularly frightening as the important Mueller investigation into obstruction of justice and collusion continues and seems likely to have ongoing indictments and charges of those in the president’s orbit.” A senior White House official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, denied D’Souza’s pardon was a message to anyone. “No. Not at all,” the official said. Trump defenders outside the White House said there was no need for the D’Souza pardon to carry a political message because it had already been sent. “I thought that was Scooter,” said one Republican close to Trump. “What is he supposed to do, not exercise his power because people might misinterpret it?” asked Rudy Giuliani, a pardon attorney in President Ronald Reagan’s Justice Department and now Trump’s lawyer in the Mueller probe. “If you’re looking at it that way, he already sent that message with Scooter Libby.” One former White House aide, though, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that “of course” that was the message Trump was sending. What is he supposed to do, not exercise his power because people might misinterpret it? Rudy Giuliani “It could be construed that the president will take action, eventually, to take care of those who’ve been targeted because they are associated with Trump,” agreed Sam Nunberg, who had worked for Trump for years before he was fired from the campaign in late 2015. “They are attacking us, all Trump associates, like we’re Mafia.” Thus far, former campaign adviser George Papadopoulos, former campaign deputy chairman Rick Gates and former national security adviser Michael Flynn have pleaded guilty in Mueller’s probe. Former campaign chairman Paul Manafort is under indictment and awaiting trial. From the start of the Russia investigation, Trump has labeled it a “witch hunt.” He has said it is treating him unfairly ― a characterization he has used for the way all three of his politically oriented pardon recipients were prosecuted. Arpaio was convicted of criminal contempt of court for refusing to stop racially profiling people he thought looked like illegal immigrants when he was sheriff of Maricopa County, Arizona. Libby was tried and convicted in the case of Valerie Plame, a former CIA agent whose name was leaked to the media by the George W. Bush administration after her former diplomat husband cast doubt on the White House’s claim that Iraq had sought nuclear material. D’Souza pleaded guilty in 2014 to asking associates to make donations to a Senate candidate, and then reimbursing them ― thereby exceeding campaign finance limits. He, like Arpaio and Trump, for years trafficked in the racially charged “birther” lie that former president Barack Obama was not born in the United States and was therefore ineligible to serve in the White House. Trump announced his latest pardon on Twitter Thursday morning: “Will be giving a Full Pardon to Dinesh D’Souza today. He was treated very unfairly by our government!” A few hours later, aboard Air Force One en route to Texas, he told reporters: “What should have been a quick minor fine, like everybody else with the election stuff. ... What they did to him was horrible.” (He added that he was also considering pardoning Martha Stewart, who was convicted of securities fraud, and commuting the sentence of former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich, who was convicted of trying to sell an appointment to a vacant U.S. Senate seat.) The Department of Justice confirmed that the D’Souza pardon did not follow the established process for clemency ― the same way the Arpaio and Libby pardons had not. Giuliani justified Trump’s actions, pointing out that a president has the authority to pardon anyone without using any formal process at all. He added that former President Bill Clinton did worse in the final hours of his tenure by pardoning a fugitive hedge fund manager indicted on tax evasion and wire fraud charges.
Summer job season is heating up, and demand for positions and employees to fill them are both on the rise, new data shows. According to a report from job site Indeed.com, summer job posts as a share of total postings are up 15 per cent from the year before as of May, on top of a 23 per cent jump from the previous year. Searches for summer jobs as a share of total job searches are also up 10 per cent. Watch: Now's the time for teens to apply for summer jobs, experts say. Story continues below. Report author and Indeed Canada economist Brendon Bernard told HuffPost Canada the list of most common job postings shows a lot of positions are geared towards students and teenagers returning to school in the fall. "We see some jobs like babysitter and camp counselor, these are roles where the person is going to be supervising out-of-school children while their parents are at work," Bernard said. Many of the in-demand jobs are also seasonal, tied to industries like construction and home renovation that are more active during the summer months. Jobs like babysitting or working as a nanny are geared towards students and teenagers returning to school in the fall. Bernard said job-seekers will also adjust their searches depending on what industry they're in. "Job seekers with experience in weather-dependent industries like construction are aware that demand for this type of work is really concentrated in this summer month — they're likely to adjust their job searches to reflect those different realities." Rural areas are seeing more demand for summer jobs, because of the seasonality of the jobs there, Bernard said. "I think an explanation of that is that in the more rural provinces, especially up north, the winters are so long that any weather-dependent industry like construction, for example, really has a short time window for when they can perform their work." American students spending summers in school, doing extracurriculars The summer job market is also hotter in Canada than the U.S. The share of job postings containing the word "summer," and the share of searches for summer jobs, were twice as high as those of our southern neighbours. According to the report, a more competitive application process for the top U.S. post-secondary schools is one reason why more teenagers and students may be spending their annual time off doing extracurricular activities or attending summer school, rather than looking for a job. The report also points to the 2001 and 2008-09 recessions, which forced more American adults to look for jobs traditionally held by teens, like part-time retail or customer service jobs. These are the top summer jobs in Canada, according to Indeed.com: Student assistant Labourer Customer service representative Summer associate Babysitter/Nanny Camp counselor Sales representative Instructor Painter Maintenance person Also On HuffPost:
Buying a new car is such an important milestone in anyone's life. Whether it's your first new car or your tenth, the moment you sit in that baby for the first time, it is always extremely special. So, if you are thinking of buying one soon, we are giving you five reasons why you should invest in an epic SUV. SUVs are people friendly Long drives in a new car become even more fun when everyone close to you can enjoy your new prized possession. Unlike a car, a 7-seater SUV is built to effortlessly accommodate anyone and everyone. With its luxurious quilted tan leather seats, your friends and family can comfortably sit back and enjoy the ride. 2. A monocoque SUV will give you the benefits of a SUV without adding bulk to your drive. Most new-car buyers steer away from a sports utility vehicle because of its sheer size. They believe that the size adds bulk to the drive, making the car difficult to handle, especially if one is used to driving a hatchback or a sedan. However, thanks to advances in car tech, the market is now opening to monocoque SUVs, which are as easy to drive as a smaller car despite being a SUV & offer an unmatched view of the road ahead. 3.SUVs offer unmatched all-terrain capability A SUV is a multi-purpose car that's a winner on any kind of terrain and in any kind of situation. It doesn't matter if you are stuck in traffic while getting back home from work or braving the hills during a long weekend trip, a SUV will give you the same driving pleasure in every situation. In short, it's great for city driving as well as for hugging the curves of a mountainous terrain. 4. Features! Features! Features! Apart from performance and go-anywhere capability, a SUV packs in a whole lot of features at a competitive price. Think electric sunroof, power seats, rain-sensing wipers, smart watch connectivity, touch-screen infotainment, GPS navigation, Android Auto, enhanced audio, and many others. With automatic transmission offered on several variants you can effortlessly take on any challenge. An SUV seems like a great new car, right? If these points have resonated with you, then walk into your nearest Mahindra showroom and take home/test drive the all new Mahindra XUV500 that has all these features and much more to offer. For more information, click here https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f8Uh3DtEOcE
(CNN) More than 400 people have been vaccinated and more than 800 contacts traced in the city of Mbandaka in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Use of the experimental vaccine, known as rVSV-ZEBOV, will now spread to the more rural regions of Iboko and Bikoro where the majority of cases have occurred. Vaccination began in the urban setting of Mbandaka to "prevent an urban outbreak" as well as further spread along the nearby Congo river, to reduce "risk through the interior of DRC and surrounding countries," Dr. Peter Salama, the deputy director-general of the World Health Organization's Health Emergencies Program said Tuesday. He confirmed the outbreak spread to Mbandaka after two brothers visited Bikoro to attend a funeral and traveled back to the city. "Mbandaka is relatively safeguarded at the moment," he said, adding that officials "haven't seen an explosive increase in cases" and the teams have reason to "cautiously optimistic." There have been 54 cases of Ebola reported in Congo, including 25 deaths. Thirty-five of those case have been confirmed with laboratory tests. Salama said 47 of the cases were in the more rural regions of Bikoro and Iboko where control efforts will now be focused. "That's where the next phase of vaccination must go." The vaccine is proving to be a very acceptable intervention to the community in Mbandaka, Salama said. "There are no reports of refusal of the vaccination." "Over 90% of eligible people are getting vaccinated," said Dr. Michael Ryan, WHO assistant director-general for Emergency Preparedness and Response, highlighting that this is a strong coverage rate for any vaccine. A health worker prepares an Ebola vaccine to administer to health workers during a vaccination campaign in Mbandaka, Congo. More than 900 contacts are being followed in Congo, and the number is likely to increase. The Ebola vaccine being provided has been shown to be safe in humans and highly effective against the Ebola virus, according to the WHO. A 2016 study found it to be 100% effective in trials in Guinea in coordination with the country's Ministry of Health after the 2014-15 outbreak. Therapeutics to be tried Five experimental drugs to treat Ebola virus disease, including ZMapp and Remdesivir, have now arrived in the country and will be trialed under strict experimental research protocols, Salama said. This means they will have to be used as part of a clinical trial, with ethical review and informed patient consent. Officials expect to get formal approval for delivery in the coming days. W HO officials hope to introduce the life-saving therapies to patients, but their use will require sophisticated monitoring. Some of the treatments require IV infusion, while others require daily assessment of liver and kidney function, according to Ryan. In 2014, ZMapp became known when it was used to treat two American missionary workers, Dr. Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol, who contracted Ebola in Liberia. Prior to that, the experimental drug had been tested only in monkeys. This is "not a simple effort to do this kind of trial in this kind of environment," said Salama. But "if we don't learn now we'll never know which drugs to use in this situation." Vaccination, therapeutic and control efforts have and will be carried out through partnerships between WHO, the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, Medecins sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) and many other NGOs on the ground in Congo. Control efforts will expand to four more provinces considered to be at risk, the IFRC confirmed. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Ebola virus disease, which most commonly affects people and nonhuman primates such as monkeys, gorillas and chimpanzees, is caused by one of five Ebola viruses. On average, about 50% of people who become ill with Ebola die. The first human outbreaks of Ebola occurred in 1976, one in the north of what is now Congo and in the region that is now South Sudan. Humans can be infected by other humans if they come in contact with bodily fluids from an infected person or contaminated objects from infected persons. Humans can also be exposed to the virus, for example, by butchering infected animals. West Africa experienced the largest recorded outbreak of Ebola over a two-year period beginning in March 2014; a total of 28,616 confirmed, probable and suspected cases were reported in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, with 11,310 deaths, according to the WHO.
(CNN) The Italian President nominated Carlo Cottarelli, a former official at the International Monetary Fund, to form an interim government. President Sergio Mattarella called Cottarelli to the Quirinale, the Italian presidential palace, after previous attempts by Italy's populist parties to form a government failed. "I am very honored and I will do my best," Cottarelli told journalists outside the Quirinale. Cottarelli said Mattarella asked him to present a program to Parliament to run Italy until new elections are held early next year. "If my government wins the confidence vote, there will be new elections at the beginning of 2019 after approving the next budget," Cottarelli said. However, he will need to win a parliamentary confidence vote, which appears unlikely, meaning snap elections could be held as early as the fall. Forza Italia, the party of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, said Monday it would not support Cottarelli's appointment. Cottarelli confirmed he would not run in any new elections. Italy's current finance minister, Pier Carlo Padoan, in an exclusive interview with CNN's Richard Quest, defended Cottarelli's appointment. Padoan laid out the potential dangers of the prospective populist government, with its Eurosceptic finance minister. "The situation is the combination of a clearly inconsistent program proposed by the coalition in terms of sustainability of public finances," he said, "and the fact that one option in the back of the mind of an influential member of the government could generate an explosive outcome." Asked whether the snap elections will become a dangerous referendum on the euro, Padoan said, "The Italian electorate is wise enough to understand what's at stake and what's good for them." Situation escalated Sunday On Sunday, Mattarella said he would appoint a technocratic, or nonpolitical, Prime Minster after the designated choice declined to form a government. Giuseppe Conte, a law professor and political novice, was put forward last week by the country's populist parties, which won the most votes in an election in March. But Mattarella told reporters after a meeting Sunday that he objected to Conte's choice for the economic ministry. He said Conte's candidate, Paolo Savona, was unacceptable because the appointment would alarm investors and have dangerous consequences for Italy's outstanding government debt. Mattarella said the country is heading for new elections. "Nobody can say that I have put obstacles to the so-called government of the change," he said, but, "I need to take care of the savings of the Italian people." Around half of Italy's debt is held by Italian citizens in the form of pension and savings bonds. The two largest parties to emerge from the March election, the right-wing League and the anti-establishment Five Star movement, are opposed to the euro. Novice Conte emerged last week Five Star leader Luigi Di Maio and Matteo Salvini, the League leader, have been locked in talks with Mattarella since the vote. During the negotiations, the populists ditched some of their most incendiary campaign vows, such as calling for a referendum on whether Italy should abandon the euro or leave the European Union. Instead they promised a spending and tax-cutting binge that has rattled investors and could contain the seeds of a new European crisis. A populist government in Rome could make it more difficult for European Union leaders such as French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel to push further EU political and economic integration.
(CNN) Welcome to the world, Sebastian Piers Williams. America Ferrera has given birth to her first child with husband Ryan Piers Williams, the star announced on Instagram. In the baby's social media birth announcement, the "Superstore" star said the new trio is "happy, healthy and totally in love." Ferrera said they plan to call the baby boy "Baz" for short. Ferrera announced her pregnancy back in December Read More
The BJP today lost its third straight Lok Sabha by-poll in Uttar Pradesh, this year. Faced with a united opposition, in a constituency with significant Muslim presence, the BJP's efforts to make it a straight Hindu-Muslim fight did not work. As of 3:00 pm, the BJP was trailing by over 42,000 votes in Kairana, according to ANI. The united opposition, comprising the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Samajwadi Party, was fronted by the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), a party which has traditionally enjoyed the support of farmers in the region. The Congress Party did not field a candidate to avoid splitting the vote. While the alliance was targeting the votes of Muslims, Dalits and Jats, the BJP was aiming for the upper caste Hindus, the OBCs, and non-Jatav Dalits. The BJP has also lost the Assembly seat from Noorpur, in western Uttar Pradesh, to the Samajwadi Party, and the Bhandara-Gondiya Lok Sabha seat in Maharashtra, where the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) had formed an alliance. BJP, however, retained the Palghar seat in Maharashtra. The BJP's defeat in western UP today mirrors a similar defeat in eastern UP in March. In the two previous by-polls, in Gorakhpur and Phulpur, Akhilesh Yadav's SP and Mayawati's BSP, joined forces in order to beat the BJP, wresting the seats held by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. BJP's losses today suggest that the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah election juggernaut faces a serious challenge if the Congress and regional parties work together with the sole purpose of beating the saffron party in the 2019 general election. READ: Jats Are Torn Between Voting As 'Hindus' Or As Sugarcane Farmers Communal versus sugarcane While some believe that the result in Kairana today suggest that BJP's strategy of polarization is losing traction, it is the sugarcane crisis in western UP that is more likely to have hurt its chances. Jat farmers have supported the BJP after the Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013, but the non-payment of dues by sugarcane mills appear to have taken precedence over communal feelings. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appearance in neighboring Baghpat to inaugurate a 14-lane expressway made little difference. The Prime Minister's attempt at indirect campaigning backfired when a sugarcane farmer, who was protesting the non-payment of sugarcane dues and a hike in power tariffs in rural areas, died of a cardiac arrest on the same day. As one Jat farmer told HuffPost India, last week, "The situation of the sugarcane farmers has never been so bad under any previous government. It is time for the BJP to get a shock." The results today will also make a case for having a pre-poll alliance as opposed to a post-poll alliance as was the case in the recently concluded Karnataka Assembly election. While the BJP had emerged as the single largest party in Karnataka, the Congress and the Janata Dal (United) acted quickly and forged an alliance in order to prevent their rival from forming the government. Both parties, however, have struggled to stay together in the aftermath of the election. READ: Meet Mriganka Singh, The Soft-Spoken Woman At The Heart Of BJP's Hindutva Battle In Western Uttar Pradesh Muslim woman in Lok Sabha In another significant development, Tabassum Hasan, who ran on an RLD ticket, will be the only Muslim lawmaker from UP in the Lok Sabha. "9 KM Road Just Gave 9 Mins Leads To BJP," Hasan tweeted after winning. In the past, the RLD had managed to successfully transfer Jat votes to Muslim candidates, but that was before the Muzaffarnagar riots had so deeply polarized western UP. Getting Jats to vote for a Muslim woman candidate in 2018 was seen as a test for RLD founder Ajit Singh and whether he could once again reclaim his party's lost glory in the area. The Kairana election was also a battle between two influential families. Hasan, a former parliamentarian, is the mother of Nahid Hasan, the MLA from SP in Kairana. The BJP fielded Mriganka Singh, daughter of Hukum Singh, the BJP lawmaker who had floated the (now disproved) theory of a Hindu exodus from Kairana. Hasan defeated Singh in 2009, but he came to power in 2014 following the Muzaffarnagar riots. BJP hoped that his daughter would ride the sympathy wave, but her chances faded in the face of a united opposition. Also on HuffPost India:
Svay Pak, Cambodia (CNN) Sephak was aged just 13 years old when she was sold for sex by her mother. She was taken to a hospital, issued a certificate confirming her virginity, and then taken to a hotel room where a she was raped for days. She was returned home after three nights. Sephak grew up in Svay Pak, a poor fishing village on the outskirts of the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh. It's a community that has become notorious as a place to buy child sex. Her mother, Ann, said her family had fallen on hard times and that they took out a loan that eventually spiraled to about $6,000 in debt. With money-lenders threatening her, Ann took up an offer from a woman who approached her promising big money for her daughter's virginity. Sephak said her mother was paid $800. But after Sephak's return, her mother began pressuring her to work in a brothel. Ann said she regrets her decision and that if she had known then what she knows now, she would never have sold her daughter. Return to the epicenter Sephak was rescued from her former life by anti-trafficking non-profit Agape International Missions (AIM). Now a woman, she works alongside other survivors in a factory run by AIM, earning money making bracelets and clothing "Today, I feel more much stability than before. Not a lot of stability, but enough," says Sephak. "Now I have a decent job. I really want other people to have the kind of work that I have." American Don Brewster founded AIM in 2005 to fight child trafficking in Cambodia. A former pastor, he says the organization has so far rescued more than 700 people. Most of his efforts are focused in Svay Pak. It's a place where the poverty is overwhelming, with many families scraping by on less than a dollar a day. The residents are mostly undocumented Vietnamese migrants, many of whom live in ramshackle houseboats on the Tonle Sap River, eking out a living farming fish. "When we talk about child sex trafficking, this was at one point the epicenter," says Brewster. "We would say when we came [to Svay Pak] it was 100% -- if you were a girl born here, you were going to be trafficked. We would say today it's significantly below 50%." But Brewster has warned that although children are no longer being sold in brothels here, trafficking is now taking place in hotels, where it is harder to detect, and harder to prevent. The US Department of State's 2017 Trafficking in Person's report says Cambodia does not fully meet minimum standards for eliminating trafficking, but notes that the Cambodian government has made significant efforts to fight human trafficking, including increasing the number of trafficking convictions. 'Sometimes there's no choice' JUST WATCHED Fighting child sex trafficking in Cambodia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fighting child sex trafficking in Cambodia 03:13 As AIM's director of investigations, Eric Meldrum works alongside Cambodian police to track down criminals and rescue victims. He says that in three years, he has helped rescue 130 girls in more than 50 different raids and that AIM's partnership with police has been crucial. "The police are doing a good job," he says. "We've got a very good cooperation with them and there's a definite willingness throughout the police, throughout the hierarchy of the police, to crack down on the issue." Meldrum adds: "This is still a poor country and people are still looking to get money and unfortunately, with a lack of education, lack of jobs, the sex industry is one of the routes that people can make money to send home. "Even sometimes families don't want their daughters or girls in the industry, sometimes there's no choice." In spite of the efforts of NGOs and police, that's a reality still faced by many girls in Svay Pak. "It's hard to understand why these mothers do this," says Sephak. "They don't have money, so they make their daughters work. "Even now, I see a lot of mothers who don't understand the feelings of their daughters. They don't understand that their daughters have hearts, that they suffer."
While Queen Elizabeth II may have kept a very straight face at the royal wedding, it’s clear that Her Majesty is pleased with the newest addition to the royal family. In a photo taken on Wednesday of the queen and Honorable George Brandis, the Australian High Commissioner to the U.K., eagle-eyed viewers noticed a previously unseen photo of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle in the background on a table.
(CNN) In the nutritional world, the benefits of cow's milk are well-known: It's a good source of several important nutrients, including protein, calcium and vitamin D, and an important staple for children. But despite its winning nutrient profile, cow's milk doesn't always have a place within one's diet. Take vegans, who avoid food from all animals, or people who have an allergy to milk protein. Or the large percentage of individuals who have trouble digesting lactose, the sugar in milk, and prefer something other than dairy milks that may be more easily digested. Non-dairy milks, including soy, almond, rice and coconut milk, are juices from nuts, seeds, grains and legumes that are often fortified with vitamins and minerals in an attempt to deliver the equivalent nutrient profile and sometimes taste and consistency of cow's milk. These plant-based "milks" have become increasingly popular and serve as a welcome alternative for those who can't tolerate or choose not to consume cow's milk. According to market research analysis , half of Americans consume these milks, including 68% of parents and 54% of children younger than 18. But how well do these "milks" compare to the real thing? Nutrients in dairy vs. non-dairy milks Cow's milk can be considered the nutritional gold standard. It's high in protein; provides a good mix of key nutrients such as calcium, magnesium, potassium, riboflavin, folate and vitamin B12 and is fortified with vitamin D, according to Vandana Sheth, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. An 8-ounce serving of whole milk provides 8 grams of protein -- that's about 60% of the Recommended Daily Allowance for toddlers and 40% of the RDA for young children. But it's not just quantity that matters when it comes to protein: The quality matters, too. Cow's milk is considered a high-quality protein because it contains all of the essential amino acids required by the human body. Though non-dairy beverages are often substituted for cow's milk, "they are not able to completely mimic the nutritional profile," Sheth said. For example, rice milk, coconut milk and almond milk provide minimal amounts of protein. And if the dairy alternative is not fortified with vitamins such as calcium, D and B12, you might be missing those, Sheth explained. So if you can't consume the cow, what's the next best beverage? Soy milk: The best 'milk' alternative A study published in the Journal of Food Science and Technology that compared the nutritional content of plant-based milks concluded that "nutritionally soy milk is the best alternative for replacing cow's milk in the human diet." Based on the study, an 8-ounce glass of soy milk contains 7 to 12 grams of protein, "which is the highest among all the alternate milk options available." Soy milk's calories are also comparable to those in reduced-fat cow's milk and range from 80 to 100 calories per serving for unsweetened versions. Though soy milk may be a good non-dairy alternative to cow's milk, it's important to "ensure that it is fortified with calcium and vitamins D and B12, especially if you are following a vegan diet," Sheth said. Almond, rice, coconut and hemp milk Almond milk is a good source of heart-healthy fats and vitamins E and A. It is also lower in calories than cow or soy milk (unsweetened versions range from 30 to 50 calories per serving, according to the study), which can be helpful if you're watching calories from beverages. However, fewer calories also means fewer nutrients, including protein, which can be as low as 1 gram for an 8-ounce serving of almond milk. So if you have a soy allergy or you prefer the taste of almond milk, "you will need to plan on getting your protein from other food sources," Sheth noted. On the flip side, rice milk is rich in carbohydrates, which contribute a higher amount of calories: up to 140 calories per cup. It is naturally sweet and can serve as an option for those allergic to soy and nuts. However, as starch contributes almost all of its calories, rice milk is also low in protein and fats. It's not uncommon to find high calorie counts coupled with fewer nutrients. But unlike naturally sweet rice milk, oftentimes, sugar is added to improve the taste of milk, without additional nutrients. "If you have an unsweetened version and sweetened version of almond milk, the sweetened version might not necessarily have more almonds in it. But, for sure, it will have added sugar in it," said Sai Kranthi Kumar Vanga, who authored the study on plant-based milks and is a PhD candidate in the department of bioresource engineering at McGill University. Unsweetened coconut milk has fewer calories than cow's milk (it ranges from 45 to 60 calories per cup), but sweetened versions might have calories similar to 2% milk's, depending on the sugar content, according to Vanga. Most of the calories in unsweetened coconut milk come from saturated fat, though at least one study found that saturated fat from coconut milk may not have a detrimental effect on blood cholesterol levels. Coconut milk also lacks protein and has very few carbohydrates. Hemp milk may be an appealing option for vegans since it is a good source of omega-3 fats, Sheth said; however, "ensure that it is fortified with calcium and vitamins D and B12, and know that it will again not be a good source of protein." A newer alternative, pea-protein-based ripple milk, is promising, as its nutritional composition is similar to cow's milk, however, "further research is needed to assess the pea protein quality," according to Dr. Sarita Singhal, a pediatric gastroenterologist at the Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, Massachusetts, who has researched the nutritional value of plant-based milk alternatives Bioavailability of nutrients in milk There is also the issue of bioavailability in plant-based milks, which refers to the actual amount of a nutrient that will be absorbed once it enters the body. For example, calcium is often added to plant-based milks to mimic levels present in cow's milk, but that doesn't mean all of it is absorbed and therefore available to be used for its intended purpose. As something that might impact bioavailability, consider "antinutrients" in soy -- compounds that can combine with proteins or minerals in foods and make them unavailable for absorption. For example, phytic acid in soy can prevent minerals such as calcium, zinc and magnesium from being absorbed, Vanga said. "And unless the human body can absorb a particular compound, you are not benefiting from it." "Adding calcium to a product does not guarantee nutritional equivalence with other products containing similar amounts of calcium because the bioavailability of calcium varies significantly in fortified beverages," Singhal added. To optimize your intake of nutrients with plant-based milks, its important to shake the carton well before you pour, since vitamins and minerals may settle at the bottom, Sheth explained. Infants and toddlers Until the age of 2, the only suitable milk beverage for ideal growth and development and to prevent nutritional deficiencies in children (other than breastfeeding) is whole cow's milk or formula. If your child is sensitive or allergic to cow's milk, specialized hypoallergenic formulas can be considered, Sheth explained. A plant-based milk should be considered only after the age of 2. "If you do choose to provide a plant-based milk to your child [and] if over the age of 2, I would suggest soy, as it provides about 6 to 8 grams of protein per cup," she said. "It's also a good idea to consult with a registered dietitian to discuss your child's unique situation and get guidance about the right choice to allow for normal growth and development." Taste matters Nutrition aside, the taste of non-dairy milks can vary greatly. Vanga's study noted that the "beany flavor" of soy milk can be problematic for some. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "Soy milk has been on the market for decades, but there have been numerous reports which showed that people are moving away from soy milk primarily because of the taste," Vanga said. Almond milk and other plant-based milks have gained traction and captured the market, as they have a "better flavor profile compared to soy milk." So if you opt for non-dairy milk, the type you choose will depend on your personal preference and what nutrients you're trying to replace by consuming it. But whichever you pick, be sure to read labels carefully, and seek out other foods for those nutrients that fall short.
(CNN) Here's a look at some recent cases of foreign governments detaining US citizens. For information about other missing Americans, see Robert Levinson Fast Facts or POW/MIA in Iraq and Afghanistan Fast Facts . Currently Detained Americans Iran: Siamak Namazi, a Dubai-based businessman with dual US and Iranian citizenship, is detained while visiting relatives in Tehran. Namazi is the first US citizen reported to have been detained in Iran since the announcement of an international agreement on Iran's nuclear program. Baquer Namazi, a former UNICEF official and father of Siamak Namazi, is also detained, his wife Effie Namazi says on Facebook. He is an Iranian-American. October 2016 - Baquer Namazi and his son Siamak are sentenced to 10 years in prison and fined $4.8 million, according to Iran's official news channel IRINN. Iran officials say five people were convicted and sentenced for "cooperating with Iran's enemies," a government euphemism that usually implies cooperating with the United States. Baquer Namazi and his son Siamak are sentenced to 10 years in prison and fined $4.8 million, according to Iran's official news channel IRINN. Iran officials say five people were convicted and sentenced for "cooperating with Iran's enemies," a government euphemism that usually implies cooperating with the United States. August 2017 - An Iranian appeals court upholds the convictions of Baquer and Siamak Namazi. An Iranian appeals court upholds the convictions of Baquer and Siamak Namazi. January 28, 2018 - Baquer Namazi is granted a four-day leave by the Iranian government, after being discharged from an Iranian hospital. Namazi's family say the 81-year-old was rushed to the hospital on January 15 after a severe drop in his blood pressure, an irregular heartbeat, serious depletion of energy and coloring turning white. This was the fourth time Namazi had been transferred to a hospital in the last year. He underwent emergency heart surgery to install a pacemaker in September. Reza "Robin" Shahini July 11, 2016 - San Diego resident Reza "Robin" Shahini is arrested while visiting family in Gorgan, Iran. Shahini is a dual US-Iranian citizen. October 2016 - Shahini is sentenced to 18 years in prison. February 15, 2017 - Goes on a hunger strike to protest his sentence. Goes on a hunger strike to protest his sentence. April 3, 2017 - The Center for Human Rights in Iran says Shahini has been released on bail while he awaits the ruling of the appeals court. The Center for Human Rights in Iran says Shahini has been released on bail while he awaits the ruling of the appeals court. Karan Vafadari December 2016 - Vafadari's family announces that Karan Vafadari and his wife, Afarin Niasari, were detained at Tehran airport in July. Vafadari, an Iranian-American, and Niasari, a green-card holder, ran an art gallery in Tehran. Vafadari's family announces that Karan Vafadari and his wife, Afarin Niasari, were detained at Tehran airport in July. Vafadari, an Iranian-American, and Niasari, a green-card holder, ran an art gallery in Tehran. January 2018 - Vafadari is sentenced to 27 years in prison. Niasari is sentenced to 16 years. Xiyue Wang July 16, 2017 - The semi-official news agency Fars News, citing a video statement from Iranian judicial spokesman Gholamhossein Mohseni-Ejheie, reports that a US citizen has been sentenced to 10 years in prison after being convicted of spying. The semi-official news agency Fars News, citing a video statement from Iranian judicial spokesman Gholamhossein Mohseni-Ejheie, reports that a US citizen has been sentenced to 10 years in prison after being convicted of spying. Princeton University identifies the man as Chinese-born Xiyue Wang, an American citizen and graduate student in history. According to a university statement, Wang was arrested in Iran last summer while doing scholarly research in connection with his Ph.D. dissertation. Turkey: Turkey has carried out a widespread purge since a failed military coup in July 2016, detaining tens of thousands of people, including several non-diplomatic US citizens, it accuses of having links to Turkey has carried out a widespread purge since a failed military coup in July 2016, detaining tens of thousands of people, including several non-diplomatic US citizens, it accuses of having links to Fethullah Gulen . Gulen is a Turkish cleric living in Pennsylvania whom Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan blames for orchestrating the coup attempt. Gulen has denied involvement in the coup. Ankara has repeatedly pressured Washington to extradite Gulen since the coup, and the issue has become a major thorn in relations. Andrew Brunson October 2016 - Andrew Brunson, a North Carolina native, is arrested in Izmir on Turkey's Aegean coast, where he is pastor at the Izmir Resurrection Church. Brunson, an evangelical Presbyterian pastor, is later charged with plotting to overthrow the Turkish government, disrupting the constitutional order and espionage. Andrew Brunson, a North Carolina native, is arrested in Izmir on Turkey's Aegean coast, where he is pastor at the Izmir Resurrection Church. Brunson, an evangelical Presbyterian pastor, is later charged with plotting to overthrow the Turkish government, disrupting the constitutional order and espionage. March 2018 - A formal indictment charges Brunson with espionage and having links to terrorist organizations. If convicted, he faces up to 35 years in prison. April 16, 2018 - Brunson's trial begins. He rejects the allegations listed in the indictment, denying that he has links to the organization of Gulen or to the Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK. Serkan Golge July 2016 - While on holiday in Turkey, While on holiday in Turkey, Serkan Golge is arrested and accused of having links to the Gulenist movement. Golge is a 37-year-old NASA physicist who holds dual Turkish-US citizenship. February 8, 2018 - Golge is sentenced to 7.5 years in prison. Formerly Detained Americans Cuba: Alan Gross December 2009 - Alan Gross is jailed while working as a subcontractor on a US Agency for International Development project aimed at spreading democracy. His actions are deemed illegal by Cuban authorities. He is accused of trying to set up illegal Internet connections on the island. Gross says he was trying to help connect the Jewish community to the Internet and was not a threat to the government. August 2010 - While on a trade mission in While on a trade mission in Cuba , New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson presses Cuba to free Gross. March 12, 2011 - Gross is found guilty and sentenced to 15 years in prison for crimes against the Cuban state. March 30, 2011 - Former President Jimmy Carter visits Cuba and tries to secure Gross' release on humanitarian grounds, arguing that Gross' mother and daughter are battling cancer. He is unsuccessful. September 7-14, 2011 - Richardson visits Cuba on a private mission to win the release of jailed American contractor Gross. He is unsuccessful. April 11, 2014 - Ends a hunger strike that he launched the previous week in an effort to get the United States and Cuba to resolve his case. Ends a hunger strike that he launched the previous week in an effort to get the United States and Cuba to resolve his case. December 17, 2014 - Gross is released as part of a deal with Cuba that paves the way for a major overhaul in US policy toward the island. Gross is released as part of a deal with Cuba that paves the way for a major overhaul in US policy toward the island. Democratic Republic of Congo: Darryl Lewis April 24, 2016 - Darryl Lewis, a security adviser working in Katanga, is taken into custody and accused of mercenary activities. According to the US Embassy in Kinshasa, he was not armed and the allegations against him are false. He is released on June 8, 2016. Egypt: 16 American NGO Employees December 2011 - Egyptian authorities carry out 17 raids on the offices of 10 nongovernmental organizations. The Egyptian general prosecutor's office claims the raids were part of an investigation into allegations the groups had received illegal foreign financing and were operating without a proper license. February 5, 2012 - Forty-three people, including 19 Americans, face prosecution in an Egyptian criminal court on charges of illegal foreign funding as part of an ongoing crackdown on NGOs. The defendants include 19 Americans, five Serbs, two Germans, three Arabs and Egyptians. Among the American defendants is Sam LaHood, International Republican Institute country director and the son of US Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. February 15, 2012 - US State Dept. confirms there are 16 Americans being held not 19 as the Egyptian government had announced. February 26, 2012 - Formal reading of the charges against the NGOs. None of the sixteen detained Americans appears in court. February 29, 2012 - The travel ban is lifted. March 1, 2012 - A group from the 43 detainees including American, Norwegian, German, Serbian and Palestinian activists leave Cairo after each posted 2 million Egyptian pounds bail. March 8, 2012 - Trial resumes and is adjourned until April 10. Robert Becker, an employee of the National Democratic Institute (NDI), is the lone American to appear in court. April 10, 2012 - Trial is adjourned. April 20, 2012 - CNN is told Egyptian officials have filed global arrest notices with Interpol for some of the Americans involved in the NGO trial. June 5, 2012 - The trial resumes and among the defendants to appear in court are two Americans; Sherif Mansour, a recently naturalized American citizen born in Egypt and former employee of Freedom House, and Robert Becker, formerly with National Democratic Institute (NDI). June 4, 2013 - An Egyptian court sentences a total of 43 NGO workers, including several Americans and other foreigners. The court sentences 27 NGO workers in absentia to five-year sentences; 11 to one-year suspended jail sentences; and five others to two-year sentences that were not suspended, according to state-run newspaper Al Ahram. Only one American had remained in Egypt to fight the charges, but he also left after the court announced his conviction and the two year sentence. An Egyptian court sentences a total of 43 NGO workers, including several Americans and other foreigners. The court sentences 27 NGO workers in absentia to five-year sentences; 11 to one-year suspended jail sentences; and five others to two-year sentences that were not suspended, according to state-run newspaper Al Ahram. Only one American had remained in Egypt to fight the charges, but he also left after the court announced his conviction and the two year sentence. Iran Saeed Abedini September 26, 2012 - According to the American Center for Law and Justice, Saeed Abedini, an American Christian pastor who was born in Iran and lives in Idaho, is detained in Iran. The group says that Abedini's charges stem from his conversion to Christianity from Islam 13 years ago and his activities with home churches in According to the American Center for Law and Justice, Saeed Abedini, an American Christian pastor who was born in Iran and lives in Idaho, is detained in Iran. The group says that Abedini's charges stem from his conversion to Christianity from Islam 13 years ago and his activities with home churches in Iran. January 16, 2016 - Iran releases four US prisoners including Abedini, Amir Mirzaei Hekmati, and Jason Rezaian, in exchange for Iran releases four US prisoners including Abedini, Amir Mirzaei Hekmati, and Jason Rezaian, in exchange for clemency of seven Iranians imprisoned in the United States for sanctions violations Amir Mirzaei Hekmati August, 2011 - Hekmati travels to Iran to visit relatives and gets detained by authorities, according to his family. His arrest isn't made public for months. December 17, 2011 - Iran's Intelligence Ministry claims to have arrested an Iranian-American working as a CIA agent, according to state-run Press TV. December 18, 2011 - Iran's semi-official Fars news agency broadcasts a video in which a young man says his name is Iran's semi-official Fars news agency broadcasts a video in which a young man says his name is Amir Mirzaei Hekmati , and that he joined the US Marine Corps and worked with Iraqi officers. December 19, 2011 - The US State Dept. confirms the identity of the man detained in Iran and calls for his immediate release. December 20, 2011 - Hekmati's family says that Hekmati was arrested in August while visiting relatives in Iran. The family asserts that they remained quiet about the arrest at the urging of Iranian officials who promised his release. December 27, 2011 - Hekmati's trial begins in Iran. Prosecutors accuse Hekmati of entering Iran with the intention of infiltrating the country's intelligence system in order to accuse Iran of involvement in terrorist activities, according to the Fars news agency. January 9, 2012 - An Iranian news agency reports that Hekmati is convicted of "working for an enemy country," as well as membership in the CIA and "efforts to accuse Iran of involvement in terrorism." He is sentenced to death. End of January 2012 - Behnaz Hekmati, Amir Hekmati's mother, travels to Iran alone and sees her son, according to sources close to the family. March 5, 2012 - An Iranian court dismisses a lower court's death sentence for Hekmati and orders a retrial. Hekmati remains in prison. An Iranian court dismisses a lower court's death sentence for Hekmati and orders a retrial. Hekmati remains in prison. April 11, 2014 - Amir Hekmati's sister tells CNN that Hekmati has been convicted in Iran by a secret court of "practical collaboration with the US government" and sentenced to 10 years in prison. Amir Hekmati's sister tells CNN that Hekmati has been convicted in Iran by a secret court of "practical collaboration with the US government" and sentenced to 10 years in prison. Jason Rezaian July 24, 2014 - The Washington Post reports that its Tehran correspondent and Bureau Chief Jason Rezaian, his wife Yeganeh Salehi and two freelance journalists were detained on July 22, 2014. An Iranian official confirmed to CNN that the group is being held by authorities. The official did not say what they have been charged with. The Washington Post reports that its Tehran correspondent and Bureau Chief Jason Rezaian, his wife Yeganeh Salehi and two freelance journalists were detained on July 22, 2014. An Iranian official confirmed to CNN that the group is being held by authorities. The official did not say what they have been charged with. July 29, 2014 - Iran releases one of three people detained alongside Rezaian, a source close to the family of the released detainee tells CNN. The released detainee is the husband of an Iranian-American photojournalist who remains in custody with Rezaian and his wife, according to the source. Iran releases one of three people detained alongside Rezaian, a source close to the family of the released detainee tells CNN. The released detainee is the husband of an Iranian-American photojournalist who remains in custody with Rezaian and his wife, according to the source. August 20, 2014 - The Washington Post reports the photojournalist detained with Rezaian in July has been released. At her family's request, the Post declines to publish her name. October 6, 2014 - According to the Washington Post, Rezaian's wife, Yeganeh Salehi, has been released on bail. December 6, 2014 - During a 10-hour court session in Tehran, During a 10-hour court session in Tehran, Rezaian is officially charged with unspecified crimes , according to the newspaper. April 20, 2015 - According the Washington Post, Rezaian is being charged with espionage and other serious crimes including "collaborating with a hostile government" and "propaganda against the establishment." October 11, 2015 - Iran's state media reports that Iran's state media reports that Rezaian has been found guilty but no details are provided about his conviction or his sentence. His trial reportedly took place between May and August. November 22, 2015 - An Iranian court sentences Rezaian to prison. The length of the sentence is not specified. An Iranian court sentences Rezaian to prison. The length of the sentence is not specified. January 16, 2016 - Iran releases four US prisoners including Iran releases four US prisoners including Rezaian, Amir Mirzaei Hekmati, and Saeed Abedini, in exchange for the clemency of seven Iranians indicted or imprisoned in the United States for sanctions violations. May 1, 2018 - Joins CNN as a global affairs analyst. UC-Berkeley Grads July 31, 2009 - Three graduates from the University of California at Berkeley, Sarah Shourd of Oakland, California, Shane Bauer, of Emeryville, California, and Joshua Fattal, of Cottage Grove, Oregon, are detained in Three graduates from the University of California at Berkeley, Sarah Shourd of Oakland, California, Shane Bauer, of Emeryville, California, and Joshua Fattal, of Cottage Grove, Oregon, are detained in Iran after hiking along the unmarked Iran-Iraq border in northern Iraq's Kurdish region. September 22, 2009 - Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad publicly insists that the American hikers represented illegal entry and that he has no control over the case. October 2009 - The Iranian government allows a Swiss diplomat to visit them at Evin Prison. November 9, 2009 - Iran charges the three with espionage. December 14, 2009 - The Iranian Foreign Minister of Affairs Manouchehr Mottaki states the three will stand trial. February 2, 2010 - Ahmadinejad announces the possibility of an exchange for Iranians serving sentences in America. February 3, 2010 - Secretary of State Clinton says that there are no negotiations taking place between Washington, DC and Iran regarding prisoner exchanges. March 9, 2010 - The families of the three detained hikers speak by phone to the hikers for the first time since they were jailed. May 20, 2010 - The detainees' mothers are allowed to visit their children. May 21, 2010 - The mothers are allowed a second visit, and the detained hikers speak publicly for the first time at a government-controlled news conference. August 1, 2010 - Iran restates the three should be tried for illegal entry. August 5, 2010 - Reports surface that Shourd is being denied medical treatment. September 14, 2010 - Shourd is released on humanitarian grounds from Evin Prison on $500,000 bail. September 19, 2010 - Shourd speaks publicly to the press in New York. Shourd speaks publicly to the press in New York. September 24, 2010 - Shourd and her mother meet with Ahmadinejad in New York to discuss the release of her friend, Fattal and her fiancé, Bauer. Shourd and her mother meet with Ahmadinejad in New York to discuss the release of her friend, Fattal and her fiancé, Bauer. November 6, 2010 - Fattal, Bauer and Shourd are scheduled for trial on charges of spying in Iran's Revolution Court, but the trial is postponed. November 27, 2010 - Two days after Thanksgiving, Fattal and Bauer are allowed to call home for the second time. Each call lasts about five minutes. January 31, 2011 - Iran issues a summons for Shourd to return to Tehran for a trial on espionage charges. The trial is scheduled for February 6, 2011. February 6, 2011 - Fattal and Bauer's trial begins. Shourd has not responded to a court summons to return to stand trial. May 4, 2011 - Shourd announces she will not return to Tehran to face espionage charges in a court hearing scheduled later in the month. May 11, 2011 - The trial is delayed again after the suspects are not brought from the prison to the courthouse. July 31, 2011 - Fattal and Bauer's final hearing takes place as closing arguments are presented. August 20, 2011 - Fattal and Bauer each receive five years for spying and three years for illegal entry, according to state-run TV. They have 20 days to appeal. August 28, 2011 - Attorney Masoud Shafiee announces that he has filed an appeal in the case. He says it could take from a few days to few months for the court to respond. September 13, 2011 - Ahmadinejad tells NBC, "We tried last year to free one of the three persons and we are also trying to make arrangements for the freedom of the other two. I think these two persons will be freed in a couple of days." Fattal and Bauer will be released from Tehran's Evin prison after a $500,000 bail is paid for each of them, their attorney, Masoud Shafiee, says. September 14, 2011 - A Western diplomat tells CNN an Omani official is en route to Tehran to help negotiate the release of Fattal and Bauer. Oman helped secure the release of Shourd in 2010. September 21, 2011 - Fattal and Bauer are released from prison on bail of $500,000 each and their sentences are commuted. Their lawyer declined to say who had paid the bail. Fattal and Bauer are released from prison on bail of $500,000 each and their sentences are commuted. Their lawyer declined to say who had paid the bail. September 25, 2011 - Fattal and Bauer arrive back in the United States. North Korea: Kenneth Bae December 11, 2012 - US officials confirm that American citizen Kenneth Bae has been detained in US officials confirm that American citizen Kenneth Bae has been detained in North Korea for over a month. April 30, 2013 - North Korea's Supreme Court sentences Bae to 15 years of hard labor for "hostile acts" against the country. North Korea's Supreme Court sentences Bae to 15 years of hard labor for "hostile acts" against the country. August 30, 2013 - North Korea rescinds its invitation for King to travel to North Korea and try to secure the release of Bae. October 11, 2013 - Bae meets with his mother in North Korea. This is the first time his family has been able to see him for almost a year since Bae's November 3 arrest. January 20, 2014 - A statement is released in which Bae says that he had committed a "serious crime" against North Korea. Any statement made by Bae in captivity is sanctioned by the North Korean government. The country has a long history of forcing false confessions. A statement is released in which Bae says that he had committed a "serious crime" against North Korea. Any statement made by Bae in captivity is sanctioned by the North Korean government. The country has a long history of forcing false confessions. November 8, 2014 - The State Department announces that The State Department announces that Bae and Matthew Miller have been released and are on their way home. Jeffrey Fowle June 6, 2014 - North Korea announces it has detained US citizen Jeffrey Edward Fowle , who entered the country as a tourist in April. Fowle was part of a tour group and was detained in mid-May after leaving a bible in a restaurant. June 30, 2014 - North Korea says that it plans to prosecute Fowle and another detained American tourist, Matthew Miller, accusing them of "perpetrating hostile acts North Korea says that it plans to prosecute Fowle and another detained American tourist, Matthew Miller, accusing them of "perpetrating hostile acts October 21, 2014 - A senior State Department official tells CNN that A senior State Department official tells CNN that Fowle has been released and is on his way home. Aijalon Gomes January 25, 2010 - Aijalon Mahli Gomes, of Boston, is detained in Aijalon Mahli Gomes, of Boston, is detained in North Korea after crossing into the country illegally from China. He had formerly taught English in South Korea. April 7, 2010 - He is sentenced to eight years of hard labor and ordered to pay a fine of 70 million North Korean won or approximately $600,000. He is sentenced to eight years of hard labor and ordered to pay a fine of 70 million North Korean won or approximately $600,000. July 10, 2010 - Gomes is hospitalized after attempting to commit suicide. August 25-27, 2010 - Former Former President Jimmy Carter arrives in Pyongyang, North Korea, with hopes of negotiating for Gomes' release. August 27, 2010 - Carter and Gomes leave Pyongyang after Gomes is granted amnesty by Carter and Gomes leave Pyongyang after Gomes is granted amnesty by Kim Jong Il for humanitarian purposes. Kim Dong Chul October 2015 - Kim, a naturalized American, is taken into custody after allegedly meeting a source to obtain a USB stick and camera used to gather military secrets. In January 2016, Kim, a naturalized American, is taken into custody after allegedly meeting a source to obtain a USB stick and camera used to gather military secrets. In January 2016, Kim is given permission to speak with CNN by North Korean officials, and asks that the United States or South Korea rescue him. April 29, 2016 - A North Korean official tells CNN that Kim has been sentenced to 10 years of hard labor for subversion and espionage. Kim Hak-song May 7, 2017 - The state-run Korean Central News Agency reports that US citizen Kim Hak-song was detained in North Korea on May 6 on suspicion of "hostile acts" against the regime. The regime describes Kim as "a man who was doing business in relation to the operation of Pyongyang University of Science and Technology." The state-run Korean Central News Agency reports that US citizen Kim Hak-song was detained in North Korea on May 6 on suspicion of "hostile acts" against the regime. The regime describes Kim as "a man who was doing business in relation to the operation of Pyongyang University of Science and Technology." May 9, 2018 - US President Trump announces that Kim Hak-song, Kim Dong Chul and Kim Sang Duk, also known as Tony Kim, US President Trump announces that Kim Hak-song, Kim Dong Chul and Kim Sang Duk, also known as Tony Kim, appear to be in good health and are returning to the United States with Secretary of State Pompeo. Pompeo was on a visit to Pyongyang to discuss Trump's upcoming summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Kim Sang Duk April 22, 2017 - US citizen Kim Sang Duk, also known as Tony Kim, is detained by authorities at Pyongyang International Airport for unknown reasons. Kim taught for several weeks at Pyongyang University of Science and Technology. US citizen Kim Sang Duk, also known as Tony Kim, is detained by authorities at Pyongyang International Airport for unknown reasons. Kim taught for several weeks at Pyongyang University of Science and Technology. May 3, 2017 - State-run Korean Central News Agency reports that State-run Korean Central News Agency reports that Kim is accused of attempting to overthrow the government. May 9, 2018 - US President Trump announces that Tony Kim, Kim Hak-song and Kim Dong Chul US President Trump announces that Tony Kim, Kim Hak-song and Kim Dong Chul appear to be in good health and are returning to the United States with Secretary of State Pompeo. Pompeo was on a visit to Pyongyang to discuss Trump's upcoming summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Euna Lee and Laura Ling Prior to this event, no Americans had ever been tried in Prior to this event, no Americans had ever been tried in North Korea 's Supreme Court. March 17, 2009 - Journalists Euna Lee and Laura Ling cross into North Korea, are apprehended by North Korean soldiers, and charged with illegal entry to conduct a smear campaign. June 4, 2009 - They are sentenced to 12 years hard labor in a North Korean prison with no forgiveness and no appeal allowed. August 4, 2009 - Former President Bill Clinton travels to Pyongyang on a private humanitarian mission to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Il to help secure their release. Former President Bill Clinton travels to Pyongyang on a private humanitarian mission to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Il to help secure their release. August 5, 2009 - The women are pardoned and released after 140 days in captivity. The women are pardoned and released after 140 days in captivity. May 18, 2010 - Laura Ling and sister Lisa Ling's book, "Somewhere Inside: One Sister's Captivity in North Korea and the Other's Fight to Bring Her Home," is published. September 28, 2010 - Lee's book, "The World Is Bigger Now: An American Journalist's Release from Captivity in North Korea...A Remarkable Story of Faith, Family, and Forgiveness," is published. Matthew Miller April 25, 2014 - North Korea's news agency reports that Matthew Todd Miller was taken into custody on April 10. According to KCNA, Miller entered North Korea seeking asylum and had torn up his tourist visa. November 8, 2014 - The State Department announces The State Department announces Bae and Miller have been released and are on their way home. Merrill Newman October 26, 2013 - Merrill Newman of Palo Alto, California, is detained in North Korea, according to his family. Just minutes before his plane is to depart, Newman is removed from the flight by North Korean authorities, his family says. Merrill Newman of Palo Alto, California, is detained in North Korea, according to his family. Just minutes before his plane is to depart, Newman is removed from the flight by North Korean authorities, his family says. November 22, 2013 - The US State Department says North Korea has confirmed to Swedish diplomats that it is holding an American citizen. The State Department has declined to confirm the identity of the citizen, citing privacy issues, but the family of Newman says the Korean War veteran and retired financial consultant has been detained since October. November 30, 2013 - The Korean Central News Agency The Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) reports Merrill issued an apology to the people of North Korea, "After I killed so many civilians and (North Korean) soldiers and destroyed strategic objects in the DPRK during the Korean War, I committed indelible offensive acts against the DPRK government and Korean people." His statement ends: "If I go back to (the) USA, I will tell the true features of the DPRK and the life the Korean people are leading." December 7, 2013 - Newman returns to the United States, arriving at San Francisco International Airport. North Korea's state news agency reports Newman was released for "humanitarian" reasons. Newman returns to the United States, arriving at San Francisco International Airport. North Korea's state news agency reports Newman was released for "humanitarian" reasons. Eddie Yong Su Jun April 12, 2011 - An American man has been detained by North Korean authorities, State Department officials tell CNN. A diplomatic source familiar with the case says the man entered North Korea in November. April 14, 2011 - The KCNA reports that US citizen Eddie Yong Su Jun was arrested in November 2010 and has been under investigation for committing a crime against North Korea. No details are provided on the alleged crime. April 2011 - North Korean says Yong Su Jun has admitted his crime. The specific nature of the crime has not been revealed. May 27, 2011 - Following a visit from the American delegation which includes the special envoy for North Korean human rights, Robert King, and the Deputy Assistant Administrator of the US Agency for International Development, Jon Brause, to North Korea, Following a visit from the American delegation which includes the special envoy for North Korean human rights, Robert King, and the Deputy Assistant Administrator of the US Agency for International Development, Jon Brause, to North Korea, detainee Eddie Yong Su Jun is released Otto Frederick Warmbier January 2, 2016 - Otto Frederick Warmbier, a University of Virginia college student, is detained in North Korea after being accused of a "hostile act" against the government. Otto Frederick Warmbier, a University of Virginia college student, is detained in North Korea after being accused of a "hostile act" against the government. February 29, 2016 - The North Korean government releases a video of Warmbier apologizing for committing, in his own words, "the crime of taking down a political slogan from the staff holding area of the Yanggakdo International Hotel." It is not known if the student was forced to speak. The North Korean government releases a video of Warmbier apologizing for committing, in his own words, "the crime of taking down a political slogan from the staff holding area of the Yanggakdo International Hotel." It is not known if the student was forced to speak. March 16, 2016 - Warmbier is sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for crimes against the state, a North Korean official tells CNN. Warmbier is sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for crimes against the state, a North Korean official tells CNN. June 13, 2017 - Warmbier is transported back to the United States via medevac flight to the University of Cincinnati Medical Center. There, doctors say that he has suffered severe brain damage. Warmbier is transported back to the United States via medevac flight to the University of Cincinnati Medical Center. There, doctors say that he has suffered severe brain damage. Doctors say Warmbier shows no current signs of botulism, which North Korean officials claim he contracted after his trial. June 19, 2017 - Warmbier's family issues a statement that he has died. April 26, 2018 - Warmbier's parents file a wrongful death lawsuit against the North Korean government charging that the country's regime tortured and killed their son, according to lawyers for the family. Warmbier's parents file a wrongful death lawsuit against the North Korean government charging that the country's regime tortured and killed their son, according to lawyers for the family. Venezuela: Timothy Hallett Tracy April 24, 2013 - Timothy Hallett Tracy, of Los Angeles, is arrested at the Caracas airport, according to Reporters Without Borders. Tracy traveled to Timothy Hallett Tracy, of Los Angeles, is arrested at the Caracas airport, according to Reporters Without Borders. Tracy traveled to Venezuela to make a documentary about the political division gripping the country. April 25, 2013 - In a televised address, newly elected In a televised address, newly elected President Nicolas Maduro , successor to the late Hugo Chavez , says he ordered the arrest of Tracy for "financing violent groups." April 26, 2013 - State Dept. spokesman Patrick Ventrell confirms the arrest of an American in Caracas but declines to comment on the specifics of the case. He says the accusations are the latest in a series of allegations in recent weeks made by the Venezuelan government that "foreign actors" are attempting to influence political developments in the country. April 27, 2013 - Tracy is formally charged with conspiracy, association for criminal purposes and use of a false document. June 5, 2013 - Tracy is released from prison and expelled from Venezuela. Joshua Holt May 26, 2018 - Joshua Holt and his Venezuelan wife, Thamara Holt, are released by Venezuela. The two had been imprisoned there since 2016. The American traveled to Venezuela to marry Thamara in 2016, and shortly afterward was accused by the Venezuelan government of stockpiling weapons and attempting to destabilize the government. He was held for almost two years with no trial.
Here are all the ways they made their moment in the world spotlight stand out: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle , now the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, took their vows Saturday at Windsor Castle and nudged the royal family into a more modern era, with a ceremony that bucked convention and tradition throughout. Reverend Michael Curry’s energetic sermon... Curry, who is American, spoke animatedly about love, God and Instagram in a long and partly improvised sermon before a bunch of royals who seemed... perplexed. He even evoked slavery as he spoke about “the dynamic power of love.” It was just a bit of a shift from the sermon delivered at the 2011 wedding of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. The reverend is the first black person to lead the Episcopal Church, which is part of the Anglican Communion like the Church of England. Twitter lit up with Americans celebrating the significance of both Curry’s presence and his words. ...which included a quote by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. “We must discover the power of love, the redemptive power of love,” Curry said, quoting the late civil rights leader. “And when we discover that, we will be able to make of this old world a new world. Love is the only way.”
As Muslims in Gurugram gathered under police protection to offer Friday namaz yesterday, some members of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti (SHSS), a weeks-old Hindutva organisation fanned out across the city to record video clips of men praying at construction sites, by-lanes and sidewalks, and parking lots. The footage, SHSS members said, was for their campaign against prayers in public spaces. The outfit, its members said, was set up on April 28, after when six Hindu men were arrested for disrupting namaz on a barren spot of government land in Gurugram's Wazirabad area on April 20. Since then, the outfit has frequently been in the news for disrupting namaz, organising public marches, and making provocative demands, such as namaz should only be held in areas where at least half the residents are Muslim. The very existence of the SHSS, its supposed agenda, and the circumstances of its creation offers an insight into the growth of scores of "astro-turf" style Hindutva outfits, that claim to be grassroots organisations but are actually synthetic fronts propped up by political parties to push their own state governments to take extreme positions on sensitive issues. The SHSS, for instance, was formed with the support of Usha Priyadarshi, the BJP's Haryana State General Secretary OBC Morcha, who told HuffPost that she was integral to the creation of the SHSS. SHSS members work out of the Vivekanand Global School, a private school where Priyadarshi serves an managing director. The outfit's coordinator, Mahavir Bhardawaj, told HuffPost he was a journalist with Jansatta, a widely read Hindi newspaper. Mukesh Bhardwaj (no relation), editor-in-chief of Jansatta said Mahavir Bhardwaj is a freelance journalist whose articles the paper publishes time to time, but was not an employee of the paper. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube Soon after SHSS aired its demands, the BJP-run Haryana state government also clarified its stance on the offering of Muslim Friday prayers in public places. In a press conference, Haryana Chief Minister, Manohar Lal Khattar told ANI, "There has been an increase in offering namaz in the open. Namaz should be read in mosques or idgahs rather than in public spaces." Khattar's statement prompted a fresh round of media coverage, an fresh airing of the SHSS's claims about the growing presence of Bangladeshis and Rohingyas in Gurugram, and culminated in Friday's prayers under police protection. Now as a the Friday prayers in Gurugram have become a full-blown national issue, Priyadarshi, the BJP leader, completed the feedback loop between her government and the SHSS, by telling HuffPost she supported the statement by her Chief Minister. "It's their right to practice their religion. But you cannot just sit down on roads and public spaces and create problems for others," Priyadarshi said. So we want them to go to designated places to read namaaz." Yet the Hindus and Muslims who live together on the barren, dusty, plot of land where the controversy around Friday namaz began, are perplexed that a neighbourhood argument between Muslim worshippers and seven Hindu men on motorcycles has spiralled into an acrimonious national debate. 'No history of communal strife' The plot of land at the heart of this dispute belongs to the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) in Gurugram's Wazirabad area and is used as a dumping ground for refuse - most likely by the various offices and residential complexes that encircle it. In a two-story building at one end, approximately 65 Hindu and Muslim families from West Bengal and Bihar live in small one and two room units, and share common utilities like toilets, drinking water and common areas. "Why, Muslims and Hindus can't live together or what?" asked Mireja Bibi, when asked if there had ever been communal tension in the house. Mireja, who is Muslim, and her friend Dipali Karmakar, who is Hindu, said they were both from West Bengal's Malda district, and had come 18 months ago to look for work. Both women are employed as domestic workers in Gurugram's upscale gated communities, while their husbands work as gardners and janitors in nearby office complexes. Dipali Karmakar (second from left) and Mireja (second from right). The men living in the house have been offering prayers in the empty ground in front of the house for the past two years, Dipali said. "A lot of other men from around this area also came here for namaaz. We don't know all of them but some stay in shanties nearby and work as labourers. Many of them are Bengalis," she said. Hiralal Chaudhry, who built the house in the plot adjacent to HUDA's land, said in the years his family had owned the land, they had never sensed any communal tension in the area. That's one of the reasons that Chaudhry decided to build the house, which he finally started renting out two years ago. "Over the last two years, my tenants have regularly performed namaaz and no one has bothered them," Chaudhry said. "Of course, someone has instigated the Hindu men to do this." Chaudhry said a few of the accused men live a couple of houses behind his and had never bothered his tenants in the past. On the afternoon of April 20, Dipali Karmakar and Mireja Bibi had just returned from work, when their children told them that some boys from the neighbourhood had ridden in on bikes and yelled at the men performing namaz a few dozen feet away from their house. At the time, between 200 and 300 people had gathered for namaz, a policeman said. According to an eyewitness who lives in the house and participated in the namaaz, seven men came on bikes and started shouting 'Jai Shri Ram' and calling them Bangladeshis. "They were laughing and shouting. It lasted for a 10-15 minutes," said the witness, a teenager who preferred to remain anonymous. When the worshippers got up and left, the trouble-mongers also disappeared. Over the next few days, a video of the incident started getting shared on WhatsApp and social media platforms like Facebook. Haji Shehzad Khan, a real estate businessman, received the video on WhatsApp the same day the incident occurred. He spent the next few days trying to identify the Hindu men in the video. "I waited for four days and then filed a police complaint," he told HuffPost. On 27 April, police arrested six men from nearby Wazirabad and Kanhai villages for threatening the Muslim worshippers. A day later, 21 Hindutva organisations in Gurugram came together to form Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti. The Samiti helped the Hindu men get bail and began what they call a 'movement' against Muslims reading namaaz 'illegally' in public spaces. On 4 May, reports poured in from across Gurugram that Hindutva organisations have been descending on namaaz sites, and preventing Muslims from offering prayers. Soon, Dipali said, a steady stream of 'important-looking people' who 'came in big cars' began frequenting the spot. "I told Mireja we are outsiders here," Dipali said. "You people pray inside the house instead of running into danger. We don't know these people -- the politicians, police, anyone." The local police confirmed that the men they arrested -- all in their late 20s and early 30s -- were locals who did odd jobs like working in garages or as mechanics. They were not known to belong to any political outfit. Temples and Playgrounds The six men who were arrested told the police that they disrupted the namaaz because the Muslim men were occupying a space that they wanted to use as a sports ground. "The men were from Wazirabad and Kanhai villages. They said that there weren't playgrounds around where they lived," Suresh Kumar, assistant sub-inspector of Sector 53 police station told HuffPost India, adding that the men insisted they were not part of any political organisation. The police said the accused stuck to this account even when they were grilled on why they never had issues before and how less than an hour's namaaz would come in the way of using the ground as a playground. But the public conversation was being shaped by Mahavir Bhardwaj, a freelance journalist who named himself the coordinator of the SHSS and has launched a determined campaign based on claims which he has no proof of. HuffPost met Bhardwaj in a swanky, spacious office in the backyard of the Vivekanand Global School in Sector 7, Gurugram, the school owned by Usha Priyadarshi, the BJP leader. The Hindu youth, Bhardwaj claimed, were enraged because the Muslim men were offering namaaz in front a temple in the Wazirabad plot. He insisted that the men had 'warned' the worshippers a week before against reading namaaz in front of a temple. The men who interrupted the Friday prayers didn't belong to any Hindutva group or political party, Bhardwaj said. "They are just concerned locals who took action in the interest of the country," he said. "They should be felicitated, instead, they were arrested." When visiting the site where the namaaz was disrupted, HuffPost could not seen any Hindu temple in front of the spot where prayers were held. Huda department installed three public notice boards at sector-43 where Muslim community members offer the Namaz every Friday, on May 4, 2018 in Gurgaon, India. Bhardwaj claims the SHSS wants a ban on all public displays of religion, yet the memorandum submitted by the SHSS to the deputy commissioner of police on 9 May, demands Muslims be barred from offering namaaz at public places in Gurugram. The document, a copy of which is with HuffPost, also asked the police to find the Rohingyas and Bangladeshis in Gurugram 'fast-growing Muslim population' and drive them out. The document makes no mention of Hindus or any other religion. The SHSS has also claimed that the men offering Friday prayers chanted slogans in support of Pakistan, and Azad Kashmir, and were going door to door to sell cow meat. ASI Suresh Kumar, the investigating officer, said that there was no evidence that the men were shouting at anti-India, pro-Pakistan slogans or selling cow meat. "We have a task-force which regularly conducts raids to track illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. Residents of that area are not illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. They are mostly labourers from West Bengal," he said. He added that in the last couple of years at least, he has not received any complaints of harassment against the migrants from the locals in the area. Enter the Congress HuffPost met Khan at the office of Aamir Hasan, the ex-general secretary of the Haryana Pradesh Youth Congress, and currently the vice-chairperson of the Congress' minority cell in Gurugram. "When attacks such as these happen, it harms the cosmopolitan image of the city. This city is full of migrant workers from across the world and corporations are investing hundreds of crores here. We want peace and hope people will work their differences out peacefully," Hasan said. Khan told HuffPost that the attack on the prayers were a clear act of aggression, which is why he filed the complaint. "These prayers have been taking place for years. Why this attack now? Most of these namaaz readers are poor people, labourers. They cannot afford to spend Rs 30-40 to go to a far away place to offer prayers. So they should just stop praying?" he asked. Twelve years ago, Khan said, he had submitted intimations to local police and administrations that they're going to hold prayers in certain public spaces. He says that he did it in the capacity of a 'social worker'. "No one objected. The administration didn't ask us to stop namaaz anywhere. Yes, these are public spaces, but a Friday prayer hardly takes more than an hour," Khan told HuffPost. Hasan added that after the 20 April incident, imams and locals from at least 20 neighbourhoods in Gurugram had called him, expressing concern about possible attacks and cancelling plans to hold prayers. Hasan later released a statement congratulating the divisional commissioner and deputy commissioner of Gurugram for helping maintain law and order and said that the party wants the 'social fabric of the society to be intact'.
(CNN) Amid the furor caused by Roseanne Barr's racist tweet about former Obama administration official Valerie Jarrett , the role of one high-profile political player seems to be being ignored. That player's name? Donald Trump Jr. Let's start from the beginning. Aside from Jarrett ( and me! ), Barr's late-night Twitter vitriol was aimed at billionaire philanthropist George Soros. It began just before midnight Sunday, when Barr, inexplicably, tweeted this: "Chelsea Soros Clinton." Clinton, the daughter of the former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former President Bill Clinton, responded Monday morning by noting thather middle name is Victoria andshe is not related to Soros in any way. Clinton also touted the work Soros' Open Society Foundation does. Which set Barr off. (Or maybe, more off?) She responded to Clinton this way "Sorry to have tweeted incorrect info about you!I Please forgive me! By the way, George Soros is a nazi who turned in his fellow Jews 2 be murdered in German concentration camps & stole their wealth-were you aware of that? But, we all make mistakes, right Chelsea?" Which is where Don Jr. enters our story. He retweeted that Roseanne response, and a subsequent one that read : "Soros' goal; the overthrow of us constitutional republic by buying/backing candidates 4 local district attorney races who will ignore US law & favor 'feelings' instead-and call everyone who is alarmed by that 'racist'." The idea of Soros as some sort of secret Nazi is commonplace in right-wing conspiracy circles -- touted by the likes of Alex Jones and Glenn Beck. The widely debunked claim is based on a incomplete reading of a Soros quote during a 1998 "60 minutes" interview. (You can read the full debunking by Snopes here .) Retweets may not equal endorsements, but let's be clear about what Don Jr. is doing here: Blasting out a debunked conspiracy theory that throws allegations of Nazi sympathizing at a high-profile person. (Trump Jr. has 2.84 million Twitter followers .) That is odious, at best. But, when it's done by the oldest son of the president of the United States -- and one of his closest political advisers -- it's more than that. It's dangerous. And Don Jr. -- not surprisingly -- doesn't seem to grasp that fact. "Page Six is doing what they normally do, lying and obfuscating. They know full well that I did not RT anything that was anti-semitic, but I guess facts don't matter when you're a dishonest, clickbait rag. #FAKENEWS," he tweeted in response to a New York Post story about his Roseanne retweets This is far from the first time Don Jr. has caused controversy via his Twitter account. The most famous/infamous episode was when Don Jr. posted his full email exchanges with Rob Goldstone , publicist for Russian pop star Emin Agalarov, in advance of the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting between the two of them as well as several other Russians and top Trump officials. Then there were the two tweets Trump Jr. liked that insinuated that David Hogg, a prominent gun control voice in the wake of the mass shooting at his Florida high school, was some sort of FBI plant. (Hogg's father is a former FBI agent.) And then he liked a tweet by actor Rob Schneider that read : "Why doesn't CNN or New York Times, Fox News report the fact that ALL THESE MASS MURDERERS WERE ON ANTI-DEPRESSANT DRUGS? #BigPharmaOwnsMedia" Here's the thing: This isn't some random private citizen pushing debunked conspiracy theories. It's the son of the president of the United States. We shouldn't overlook or ignore that fact.
Please enable Javascript to watch this video CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Investigators say a woman tried to hide in the ceiling at the Grayton Road Tavern and wait until the bar closed, but she was caught before she carried out her plan. The tavern is home of the popular Queen of Hearts game, but the notoriety of the game has also attracted the attention of undesirables. "People just I guess assume that we have $5.5 million stashed in our walls here; that is clearly not the case," said Jennifer Natale, general manager. "So last night I got a phone call that we had a female come into the ladies room and somehow ended up climbing up into the ceiling. When I got here, a couple of ceiling tiles were on the ground; the vent was hanging," James Page, owner, told FOX 8. Surveillance cameras were rolling as a woman went into the bathroom Monday night and climbed up into the ceiling, apparently looking for a place to hide until after closing time. You see a tile from the drop ceiling fall as she crawled toward the kitchen. When employees realized someone was up in the ceiling, they called 911 and Cleveland police and firefighters responded and searched for the woman. She is eventually found hiding in a small space above a cooler in the kitchen and is taken into custody. "Not sure why you would be up there; it's about 120 degrees up there and probably about two hours so couldn't believe it," Page said. Police told the owner of the tavern that the woman has a history of hiding in bars and restaurants and then stealing anything she can after closing time. The truth is there is very little cash at the Grayton Road Tavern. "All the money, it's not on site. We take it off every night; it does not stay here, and the one safe that we do - with the little bit of cash that we do keep, it's a big safe; nobody is getting into it." The owner said if the woman planned to tamper with the board and try and find where the Queen of Hearts was hidden, it was a plan doomed to fail. The board, which the tavern purchased from Nannicola bingo supplies, is sealed and certified, so that players can be confident that it has not been tampered with in any way. "The one thing I will say if anyone tried to do that to our board, we would immediately cease our game. We would go ahead and get a new board from Nannicola and then we would just restart the game from there," Natale said. Investigators said the woman has a serious drug addiction and steals whatever she can to support her habit. The owner of the bar points out they have someone watching the building 24/7 and they have many police officers who are customers. More stories on Queen of Hearts. 41.499320 -81.694361
(CNN) When Christopher Michael Everett went to his first SoulCycle class, he gave it his all. He sat in the front of the class, cranked the resistance on his bike and started pedaling. Within the first five to 10 minutes, his thighs began to hurt and feel abnormal. But he powered through the pain and stuck it out until the end of the class. "They say go big or go home. I probably should have went home," said Everett, a 33-year-old actor in Los Angeles. For the rest of the day, he felt OK, but the following night was marred by excruciating thigh pain. Unable to sleep, he searched for "Spin class and sore legs" and came across a personal account written by a woman who needed to go to the hospital after a cycling class for a condition called rhabdomyolysis. Rhabdomyolysis leads muscle tissue to break down and release a harmful protein into the bloodstream. Everett recognized the symptoms she mentioned, such as soreness, swollen thighs, nausea and an inability to bend the knees. He had all of them except dark brown urine , which he was not about to wait for, he said. Everett immediately went to the ER and was diagnosed with rhabdomyolysis. He stayed in the hospital for a week. What is rhabdomyolysis? Rhabdomyolysis quite literally means "breakdown of muscle," said Dr. Derek Fine, associate professor of medicine and interim chief of nephrology at Johns Hopkins Medicine. When the muscle breaks down, it releases myoglobin, a protein that can poison the kidneys, into the bloodstream. The condition is caused by any type of trauma to the muscle. There are also toxins in some medications and illicit drugs that can cause it, he said. The first descriptions of the condition were among people who had been trapped under bombed buildings during World War II, Fine said. Recently, strenuous exercise has been popping up as another common culprit, seen in people who do activities like Spinning, P90X, CrossFit, weightlifting and running. "I've had patients come in who can't walk. They can't get out of bed. They call 911 because their muscles don't work," Fine said. In rhabdomyolysis cases that are easier to treat, the patient is given fluids to rehydrate and released from the hospital after a few days of monitoring, Fine said. Everett said he was hooked up to an IV and pumped with fluids for seven days to flush out the toxins in his kidneys. He was not released until his levels of CPK -- creatine phosphokinase, an enzyme that leaks into the blood when muscle tissue is damaged -- were normal. Worst-case scenario If the condition is really severe, the kidneys may shut down, and the patient could end up on dialysis. With kidney failure comes the risk of an overload of potassium in the body, which could lead to abnormal heart rhythms and death. In April, the American Journal of Medicine released a study on three cases of rhabdomyolysis that were caused by Spinning classes. In one case, a 33-year-old kindergarten teacher was put on dialysis when she had kidney failure and experienced fluid overload from her hydration treatment. "It's tough to tell somebody who's 33 years old, 'I need to start you on dialysis.' And so you treat them with a lot of fluids, and you hopefully get them to the point where their kidneys open up and they start getting rid of the toxins and they don't have to go on dialysis," said Dr. Alan Coffino, a nephrologist and chairman of medicine at Northern Westchester Hospital in New York and a co-author of the study. He treated the 33-year-old. "In her case, we had to pull the plug and put her on dialysis." After two weeks, her kidneys opened up, and she was released from the hospital. Another potential symptom of rhabdomyolysis is compartment syndrome, Coffino said, which is when muscles swell and are unable to expand. In some cases, surgery is needed to release pressure from the muscle. Everett said the swelling of his thighs concerned the doctor. "He was like, 'if your thighs get any more swollen, we're going to have to cut those open,' " he said. But the swelling did not increase, and Everett was able to avoid surgery. How to avoid rhabdomyolysis People who work out regularly can get rhabdomyolysis, Coffino said, as well as those who don't exercise often. Those who are fit typically get it if they push themselves too hard or if they try a new exercise that works a different muscle group. The study he co-authored points out that of the 46 people documented in medical literature who got rhabdomyolysis from a Spin class, 42 developed it after their first class. Everett worked out every two to three days and considers himself fit, but he had never taken a Spin class before. "I just wish SoulCycle would have said at the beginning of the class, 'if you work out too hard, this can happen to you,' " Everett said. Its been one month since he was hospitalized, and his legs are still sore. SoulCycle has not responded to requests for comment. Although any type of extreme exercise can lead to the condition, the popularity of Spinning is what concerns Dr. Maureen Brogan, associate professor of medicine at New York Medical College, nephrologist at Westchester Medical Center and the lead author of the study. "I mean, Spinning, you burn 600 calories in an hour, and you lose up to a liter an hour of sweat," Brogan said. "Six hundred calories is like running six miles. So if you're not conditioned, you wouldn't just run six miles." One of her patients developed rhabdomyolysis after spending only 15 minutes on a bike. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Rhabdomyolysis can occur at any age and in both men and women. In Brogan's Spinning study, it was more common in females, but that's because more women tend to participate in the exercise, she said. To avoid the condition, it is important to be slow and gradual when beginning a new type of workout, she said. When going to a class, you should tell the instructor if you are new, and make sure to hydrate before, during and after exercising. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications can be damaging to the kidneys, so they shouldn't be taken after an intense workout, Brogan said. If someone does develop rhabdomyolysis, it could worsen their condition. "It's better just to err on the side of caution and take things slowly," Brogan said.
(CNN) You are probably familiar with the Mediterranean diet, which emphasizes fruits, vegetables, nuts, whole grains and olive oil. The diet has been associated with a lower incidence of cardiovascular disease, cancer and Type 2 diabetes, as well as a reduced risk of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. But there's another diet that has its roots overseas, and it appears to offer similar health benefits. The Nordic diet consists of foods traditionally sourced in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. Similar to the Mediterranean, the Nordic has been linked to decreased risk for cardiovascular disease and Type 2 diabetes . Other research suggests that the Nordic diet may be beneficial for weight loss Another similarity between the two is that they are both based on "seasonal, sustainable and locally sourced foods with an emphasis on plant-based eating," explained Layne Lieberman, registered dietitian and author of "Beyond the Mediterranean Diet: European Secrets of the Super-Healthy." Staples of the Nordic diet are based on the Baltic Sea diet pyramid , created by the Finnish Heart Association, the Finnish Diabetes Association and the University of Eastern Finland. They include berries and fruits; fatty fish (such as herring, mackerel and salmon); lean fish (such as cod, haddock and halibut); legumes; vegetables, including cabbage and root vegetables; and whole-grain cereals including barley, oats and rye. "There are several things I like about the Nordic diet," said Lauri Wright, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. "First, it is plant-forward and reduces meat consumption. Second, the Nordic diet has a core principle of sustainability, emphasizing local and fresh, which I think is very beneficial for the environment and for health." Though the Mediterranean and Nordic diets include similar foods, a major difference is in the fats that are used: The Mediterranean region is known for its olive oil production, and that is why olive oil predominates in this region, whereas the Nordic diet promotes canola oil (also known as rapeseed oil), Lieberman explained. Canola oil and olive oil are both rich in monounsaturated fats, which promote heart health by raising HDL, the "good" cholesterol, and lowering LDL, the "bad" cholesterol; however, "canola oil doesn't have the antioxidants that olive oil does," Wright said. Although the Nordic diet can offer a very healthful way of eating, it doesn't specify how much food you should consume. "You always need to monitor portion sizes for weight control," Wright said. The new Nordic diet The Nordic diet has been around for quite some time, tied, as it is, to Nordic nutrition recommendations, which have been published every eight years since 1980. Those guidelines serve a similar role as US dietary ones. But a "new Nordic diet" was developed in 2004 by Nordic chefs in an effort to improve the culinary appeal of the diet. "The new Nordic diet is based on seasonal ingredients, and it aims to elevate the products that are available in the Nordic region," said Roberto Flore, who heads culinary research and development in the Nordic food lab at the University of Copenhagen. "Techniques used to process food can be diverse and not necessarily related to past Nordic traditions of cooking." The new Nordic diet includes a lot of the existing diet principles but also aims to create flavors, extend the availability of local products during winter seasons and increase the nutritional value of the food. It also includes recommendations to eat organic produce whenever possible, eat more food from wild landscapes, avoid food additives and eat more home-cooked food. If you want to try the new Nordic diet, you can simply start incorporating its principles into your daily diet, regardless of where you live, explained Flore, who recently showcased the new Nordic diet as part of a culinary demonstration at a World Health Organization symposium that discussed the diet's benefits. At the event, he cooked semidry smoked Danish squid with fermented celeriac and sour fish broth, served with a side of wild pickled flowers, as an example of a dish that "fully shows off the soul of the new Nordic cuisine and how the principles of it are applied in a dish." But for a meal-by-meal account of what the new Nordic diet looks and might taste like, check out Flore's menu below, which also includes some elements and products from the Mediterranean areas. A typical day on the new Nordic diet Breakfast generally includes dry fruits, grains, berries and fermented dairy products such as skyr or kefir. In winter, breakfast might be porridge made with oats. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Lunch is generally light and includes rye bread, salads, fermented products, pickles, herrings and eggs. A large space is given to vegetables, and there is a great appreciation for roots and earthy flavors, including mushrooms and other products from the forest in autumn, Flore explained. During springtime, lunch might include asparagus, green peas, rhubarb and lots of wild herbs and fresh fruits. For dinner, fish might be served, but lots of chefs serve small quantities of sustainably sourced meat or animals hunted in the wild, according to Flore. Like with lunch, a large space is reserved for vegetables at dinner. A rich umami paste may be used for seasoning ingredients and adding flavors to meals.
(CNN) It's an image that has transfixed Paris and the world: A young boy dangling precariously off a fifth-floor apartment balcony as others rush to rescue him. There's a lot going on in the dramatic photo above, a screenshot from a cellphone video shot by a bystander Saturday on the Paris street below. We'll try to break it down. 1. Why is the boy hanging over the balcony? The 4-year-old was being looked after by his father in Paris while his mother was elsewhere. The dad had left the boy alone and the youngster had wandered out on the balcony. Neighbors told CNN the boy had actually fallen from the balcony above -- on the sixth floor -- but somehow caught himself on the railing below. Read More
(CNN) Abdalla hears his English teacher's voice beaming across the room like a ray of sunshine. "What... is... the... matter?" The teacher sounds out each syllable, pausing as photos of injuries flash on a projection screen. If you go to the doctor, she says, these are words you'll need to know. In this Atlanta classroom, dozens of refugees who just arrived in the United States take notes. Like them, Abdalla wants to learn. But he finds it hard to focus on the lesson. He's thinking of his daughter, Batulo. She's the one who soaks her feet in cold water to keep from dozing off while she studies. She's the one who taught him the basics of speaking and writing in English. She's the one who makes her brothers and sisters do their homework. She's the one who should be here. Abdalla is a tailor who barely had a chance to study in their native Somalia. Batulo is a bright student who loved to share lessons she learned at school. She's 22 and dreams of becoming a doctor. Photos: Refugees face uncertain journey to US President Trump's travel ban has created anxiety for Somali refugees at the crowded Kakuma refugee camp in Kenya, some of whom are in limbo while awaiting resettlement in the US. Batulo Abdalla Ramadhan, 22, had been scheduled to travel in early February to join her parents and siblings in Atlanta, but Trump's executive order put her plans on hold. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Refugees face uncertain journey to US Abdullahi Ali Abdullahi, 31, was to be resettled in Columbus, Ohio, with his family until the travel ban, which was announced two days before they were scheduled to leave. In the interim his medical insurance expired and he cannot travel until it is renewed. "We may be Muslims, but we have never taken part in terrorist attacks and we don't believe in it," he told CNN. Abdullahi's family fled Somalia when he was 6, after his grandfather was killed, and he has lived in refugee camps ever since. "I still have the hope that I will be in America," he said. "I want to do anything that will help develop the United States. I want to do that because they'd be giving me respect to welcome me." Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Refugees face uncertain journey to US Mumina Hassan Aden, who fled to Kenya in 1992 after witnessing three of her uncles killed in Somalia. She and her three children had been approved to move to Rochester, New York, before the travel ban was announced January 27. "I am traumatized and stressed because of the Trump ban that I may have to stay here (at Kakuma) forever," she said. "I have no life here. I want to get a job and be the breadwinner of the family." Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Refugees face uncertain journey to US Ayan Abdi Hujale, a daughter of Mumina Hassan Aden. Their family had given away almost all of their belongings in anticipation of coming to the US. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Refugees face uncertain journey to US Suban Abdi Hujale, sister of Ayan Abdi Hujale. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Refugees face uncertain journey to US Zakaria Abdi Hujale, brother of Ayan Abdi Hujale and Suban Abdi Hujale. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Refugees face uncertain journey to US Hindia Abukar Abdullahi, from the Lower Juba region of Somalia. She had been approved to relocate to Colorado with her brother-in-law and his family before the travel ban. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Refugees face uncertain journey to US These six children -- Mohamed Ahmed Manengera, Abubakar Ahmed Manengera, Marwo Ahmed Manengera, Ali Ahmed Manengera, Yussuf Ahmed Manengera, and Nimo Ahmed Manengera, from left to right -- had been approved to move to Colorado with their parents before the travel ban. Instead, they remained at Kakuma, which is home to some 160,000 refugees. "Life is about survival here," said their mother, Mano Abukar Abdullahi, who has been trying to resettle to the US since 2013. "I want my children to get a better life than what we have at the camp." Hide Caption 8 of 8 Only days ago, Abdalla thought America would give his daughter a chance to continue her studies and follow that path. Instead, she's stuck in a refugee camp nearly 8,000 miles away, and he's not sure if she'll ever make it. "I feel," Abdalla says, "like someone cut off my arm." A new life The day her family learned they'd be coming to the United States, Batulo was the one who opened the letter. "Dad, we passed!" she shouted into the phone. Abdalla was so overjoyed he wanted to run naked through the streets. The years of screenings and interviews were worth it. Finally, after suffering an unspeakable tragedy and spending years on the run, his family would be safe. But for Batulo, the joy was short-lived. Because of her age, she's not considered a dependent minor. Officials separated her case and told her she'd travel on her own later. Abdalla tried to reassure his daughter. They'd just be apart for a matter of days, he told her. Then they'd begin a new life together. That all changed on January 27. The search for safety Donald Trump was days away from taking the oath of office when Abdalla Ramadhan Munye and Habibo Mohamed landed in the United States. The Somali refugees had seven children in tow -- two daughters, three sons and a niece and nephew they'd been raising for a decade. The family was just settling into their new apartment in the Atlanta suburb of Clarkston when Trump went to the Pentagon and signed an executive order titled "Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States." Instead of settling into their new apartment, Somali refugees Habibo Mohamed and Abdalla Ramadhan Munye are fighting to reunite with their daughter. His order blocked refugee arrivals for four months and banned travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries , including Somalia, for at least 90 days. Those were necessary steps, Trump said, to keep the US safe. Batulo called her parents in tears from Kakuma, the Kenyan refugee camp she thought she was about to leave. Her trip had been canceled. The stroke of a president's pen that day rewrote the first chapter of this Somali refugee family's life in the United States. Their fresh start became a frantic search for help. Buried alive Batulo was weaving through the market stalls in Kakuma when she got the call. She had been searching for new shoes for her journey. The official on the other end of the line told her not to bother. "You are not able to go," he said. "There is no journey taking place." Her flight had been canceled because of the new presidential order. She began to cry. Batulo had already given away most of her clothes and books to friends who needed them more. She'd moved in with a family who said she could stay with them while she waited. She thought her flight was just days away. Crowds gather outside the airstrip at Kakuma camp in northwest Kenya, where about 160,000 refugees live. Now, however, a devastating reality is starting to set in: Her life of the past few days -- cooking and cleaning in a home that is not her own, relying on the kindness of a family that is not hers -- might be the only life she has left. With her family gone, the joy has faded away from the world around her. In Kakuma, where she's lived for seven years, she watches the children playing outside, the chickens and goats ambling down the dry dirt roads, the occasional motorcycle rumbling by, sending dust into the air. But that isn't what she sees. "I just see Kakuma, I just see it, I'm just inside the hole," she says. "They are ... burying me while I'm alive." A presidential plea Tears well up in Habibo's eyes as she faces a room full of cameras. She chokes up as she tells reporters about the last conversation she had with her daughter: "I'm afraid she feels I abandoned her." Abdalla sits beside his wife, searching for the right words. Speaking through an interpreter, Abdalla says he's afraid something will happen to the daughter they left behind in Kakuma. He begs the US government for help. Speaking through an interpreter at a press conference in suburban Atlanta, Abdalla and Habibo plead for help. There's one person in particular he hopes will hear his plea: first lady Melania Trump. "She's a mother and she knows the love of a child," Abdalla says. "I would like her to do her best to convince the president to change his mind." An exodus begins Abdalla is terrified of losing another daughter. He already lost one. The horrific details of that day in 2004 are still sharp in his mind. How he and his oldest son, Ramadhan, went out to grind corn -- past the mango groves and the river where they'd hide sometimes when violence came to the Somali countryside. How they headed back home and suddenly heard screams. How they realized the screams were coming from inside their house. How he found Habibo crying in a corner and their daughter, Famo, on the ground, covered in blood. How Habibo told him men had stormed into their home, wearing masks and shouting in Somali. How their 11-year-old had been raped and shot between the eyes. How he tried to save her, pulling her in a cart toward the hospital. How people warned him it was too late and told him she was gone. How they were right. How he buried her. How he knew that day that they had to leave Somalia. Keeping his family safe -- and together -- has been Abdalla's mission ever since. 'We are sorry' Around the English classroom at the International Rescue Committee's Atlanta office, students practice reciting the ailments they've just learned. On the walls, colorful posters spell out the the days of the week, the seasons of the year and the names of US presidents. Erin Harwood begins her lesson at the International Rescue Committee's Atlanta office, where dozens of refugees who've just arrived in the United States are learning English. While her students study, teacher Erin Harwood keys up a different presentation on the projector. The screen shows a picture of Trump at a desk beside a photo of protesters waving signs. "The president passed a refugee ban for 120 days. ... This word, ban, means stop," she tells them. "Do you know why?" A student in the middle of the classroom offers an answer: "Because he didn't know the refugees." Harwood nods. "He is a little afraid. He is afraid about terrorism," she says. "But there are many people who think this is not a good idea. We want you to come here. We are sorry for the danger that he has put you in. And we are sorry for your families." She pauses, choking up. "I am sorry for your families." A map flashes across the screen with seven countries highlighted in red. Several people in the classroom cheer when they see their homelands, unaware of why they've become the subject of this latest lesson. "Number One Syria!" yells one man. "Number One Iraq!" another counters. But the mood quickly darkens as Harwood explains more about the travel ban. She tells her class that it will be harder -- maybe even impossible -- for refugees to ever come again from those seven countries. A worksheet outlines vocabulary refugees need to know if they go to the doctor. Several women begin to cry. Harwood tries to reassure them. "You are here legally. You should not be worried," she says. "The problem is for your families who want to come." The teacher passes out flyers advertising a community meeting where experts will answer refugees' questions about the executive order. Abdalla writes down the address so he won't forget. Disconnected The voice of a child singing the ABCs echoes from a toy as 11-year-old Mana plays on the dining room floor. A cell phone video game blares in the living room as 7-year-old Ibrahim races a motorcycle down a track. Plates clank in the kitchen as 20-year-old Asha does the dishes. There's a stack of shoes outside their front door, with a playground and a pond nearby. Happy families walk hand in hand as they take their children to school. To the outside eye, this three-bedroom apartment in a placid neighborhood is a hive of a activity. But Abdalla sees what isn't there. His phone rings. It's Batulo. Abdalla hands the phone to his youngest son, Ibrahim. When the 7-year-old learned last week that his sister wasn't coming, he bolted out of the apartment and fell on his face. He still has a scrape above his lip. Ibrahim, 7, at right, lights up when he hears his sister Batulo's voice on the phone. Batulo reminds him to study and go to school. He smiles. The family passes the phone around the room. Each of them lights up when they hear her voice. Batulo tells her mother she doesn't have enough money to buy textbooks for school. Then suddenly, the connection goes dark. Everyone in the apartment freezes, like parts of a machine that halt when a gear stops turning. The distant sounds of car horns and children laughing filter through the open front door. But inside the apartment, quiet sniffles are the only sounds. Habibo knows the signal is often spotty in the refugee camp. But any time a call gets disconnected, she's terrified. She uses her bright yellow hijab to wipe away her tears, curls up on the couch and waits for her daughter to call back. Looking for help Batulo uses a plate to fan the flames beneath a pot on the dirt floor. The kitchen is hot and quickly fills with smoke. She's cooking fava beans and bread for dinner. Living on her own, she might not have enough food. So she's staying with this family of about a dozen people to share when resources are scarce. "I don't have a job. I don't have anyone helping me," she says. "I just come here to look for help." Batulo makes bread in a small kitchen at the Kakuma camp. Now that her parents and siblings have left, she's staying with another family to make sure she has enough food. Batulo sleeps on a mattress with two other people, swatting away mosquitoes at night. Thorny shrubs line the maze of paths between homes in this massive camp, where about 160,000 refugees live. Calls to prayer waft through the air, which is thick with the smell of hot dust and burning trash. Houses are made of mud, tin metal sheeting or wood layered with found items like tires or -- in the case of Batulo's current home -- cut and flattened tin cans. The toilet is a hole in the ground lined with corrugated tin metal sheeting. Her 24-year-old brother, Ramadhan, also lives in Kakuma and digs toilets for a living. He's also applied for refugee resettlement in the United States. But he's waiting for immigration officials to give him the green light to travel. For now, whenever he earns anything extra, he gives Batulo money to call their parents. Batulo pleads for their help convincing authorities to let her join them. She's heartbroken, but not hopeless. In her spare time, she pores over the two books she has left: a copy of the Quran and an English textbook called "New Horizons." Wrong number The phone rings. Abdalla looks up. Is it Batulo? He doesn't recognize the number. At night, he has trouble sleeping, thinking that the phone might ring. When it does, his heart jumps. Could it be good news, or something unthinkable? With his daughter stuck thousands of miles away, fear rattles Abdalla whenever his cell phone rings. Whenever Batulo calls, he only talks with her briefly. He passes the phone quickly to others in the family because it's too heartbreaking to hear the pain in her voice and not know how to help. But this time, the voice on the other end of the line is speaking in English, not in Somali or the Bantu language they often speak at home. "I was calling about the Ford Explorer you listed for sale on Craigslist." Abdalla and his son, Juma, look at each other quizzically. They don't understand what the man is saying. They try to tell him why. "Wrong number. Wrong number," Juma says. The man on the phone won't take no for an answer. "I'm calling about the Craigslist ad," he says in a Southern twang. Abdalla takes the phone and gives it a try. "No English. Speak Somali," he repeats. The man on the other end seems puzzled, too. "I don't speak Somali," he says. "I'm an American. This is America." On the run In Kenya, they were known as wakimbizi. The Swahili word has come to mean refugee. But literally translated, it can also have another meaning: "people on the run." For more than a decade, Abdalla and his family have been trying to stop running. After Famo's death, they fled their village for the Somali capital of Mogadishu, where Abdalla says he worked in construction and his children sold charcoal for a year so they could make enough money to flee the country. Abdalla and his family leave their shoes outside their apartment in Clarkston, Georgia. Today, they've left the door ajar to let in the breeze. But on some days when a stranger knocks, they're still scared to open it. From there, they made their way to Kenya, trekking on foot for days until they reached their destination. Fueled by fears for their family's safety, they moved across Kenya to Kakuma in 2009. In 2012, they asked the UN for asylum, hoping an agency would help resettle them in a far-off land away from the dangers and uncertainties of life in refugee camps. It took them years of applications, screenings and interviews to make it to the United States. This was supposed to be the last stop in their search for peace. But when a stranger knocks on the door of their Clarkston apartment, they are still too scared to answer. A little escape The family crowds into the living room, huddling around a cell phone that's sitting atop a plug less than a foot above the floor. The tiny Samsung screen is smaller than an index card, but it still pops out against the blank white wall. After he gets a job, Abdalla hopes to save enough money to buy a TV for his family. But for now, this cell phone is one of their few escapes. Abdalla and his family don't have a TV, so they relax in their living room by watching videos on a cell phone. A dubbed Somali version of the 2007 movie "Shoot 'Em Up" is playing. The film stars Paul Giamatti and Clive Owen. The family got it about six months ago in Kenya. They've watched it almost every day since. It's the best movie they have, Abdalla says. In it, a drifter on the run saves an innocent child. An unanswered question Abdalla and his family sit alone in the last row of folding chairs in an empty auditorium. They've arrived at the Clarkston Community Center an hour and a half early for a refugee advocacy meeting. They weren't sure how long it would take to get here from their apartment, and they didn't want to be late. They've been waiting for more than a week to come to this meeting, ever since their English teacher told them about it in class. They hope they'll have a chance to meet with officials who can help bring their family back together. Abdalla smiles and nervously checks his phone. He's waiting for another message from Batulo. Two days ago, his daughter called with news they'd been praying for. The International Organization for Migration scheduled a new flight for her to come to the United States. Her arrival could be days away. Batulo has lived in the Kakuma refugee camp since 2009. But until now she's never been apart from her family. But to Abdalla and Habibo, it still seems like a dream that could disappear. Before long, the room is packed with refugees searching for answers about the executive order. A local resettlement official takes the stage to share a rundown of the latest developments. Federal courts have temporarily blocked the travel ban, she says. "Right now refugees are still arriving, and they will still arrive as long as the courts decide that the president can't stop refugee resettlement," Frances McBrayer of Catholic Charities of Atlanta tells them. It's been days since the judges' decision. But this is the first Abdalla and Habibo have heard of it. A feeling of relief washes over Habibo. The courts have given her hope. But no one can answer her most pressing question: Is Batulo really on the way, or could another decree leave her stuck in Kenya? 'A younger man' Abdalla holds his phone out in front of him and walks toward the window of the apartment, letting the afternoon sun hit his face. Batulo texts her family a photo to let them know she's OK. He's using an app on his phone to video chat with Batulo, who's at a transit center in Nairobi waiting to begin her journey. It's been almost a month since the last time they talked face to face. Batulo is more than 8,000 miles away now. But this is the closest she's been in weeks. She can close her eyes and picture her life in the United States. She imagines sitting on a couch with her brothers and sisters, watching a movie. She imagines finding a job and earning enough money to help her family. She imagines the beautiful home where they will live. But looking at her cell phone screen, Batulo is shocked. Her father is wearing a suit coat -- something she never saw him do in the refugee camp. It changes the way she sees him. "You look like a younger man," she says. The suit coat was a donation Abdalla picked up recently at the IRC. And it's come in handy as he learns to handle winter weather. "You'll see," he tells his daughter. "It's so cold here, even you will wear a jacket." Lights in the sky Abdalla clutches his cell phone as the van hurtles down the highway. It's been nearly 24 hours since the last message from his daughter flashed across the screen. Batulo told him she was on a plane at the Nairobi airport. He hasn't heard from her since. Questions are racing through his mind. Batulo's family excitedly searches for signs of her at the Atlanta airport. It's been more than a month since they were together. Is she on the way? What if she gets lost? Is the nightmare they've been living really about to end? Abdalla stares out the front windshield of the van shuttling him and his family to the Atlanta airport. He doesn't look at the billboards or the exit signs or the other cars zooming past. His eyes are focused on the night sky. The white and red lights on passing planes swoop like twinkling birds overhead. He hopes Batulo is inside one of them, looking down and watching him, too. Racing to reunite For minutes that feel like hours, Abdalla and his family stand like statues in a line, their eyes laser focused on the set of escalators at Atlanta's airport where waves of arriving passengers emerge. Businessmen with briefcases, pilots in uniforms and families wearing winter coats come into view. But so far, there's no sign of Batulo. Suddenly, Abdalla yells and bolts across the waiting area, past a bright red security line on the floor that says "DO NOT CROSS." Guards shout. He doesn't hear them. To Abdalla, only one thing matters now. He sees his daughter's face and sprints toward the light. He sweeps Batulo into his arms and carries her like a running back toward a wall on the other side of the lobby. The rest of the family follows, like a trail behind a comet as it speeds through the sky. Habibo sobs as she sits beside Batulo on the airport floor. They had feared this day would never come. Batulo is still wearing a plastic pouch around her neck, stuffed with a plane ticket and an ID card from the International Organization for Migration. "I am a refugee from SOMALIA," the card says. "I may not speak English and need help to find my next flight." Batulo flew more than 10,000 miles to get here, from Kakuma to Nairobi to Dubai to New York to Atlanta. American Airlines Flight 1687 brought her to a strange city, yet she is home. Abdalla and his family sit on the airport floor, pressed together like puzzle pieces. They cling to each other, sobbing. A new home Batulo beams as she sips a can of Sprite through a straw. Her sisters tug at her arms, pulling her from room to room as they show her their new home. The living room floor is covered with plates stacked high with food that the family cooked together for hours as they awaited her arrival. They sit in a circle, devouring baked chicken, fried fish, french fries and ugali, a cornmeal dish they prepared especially for Batulo. Abdalla sends a voice message to Ramadhan, his oldest son, who's still living in Kakuma. Batulo made it safely, he says. Batulo's brother, Juma, pulls her suitcase as the family heads home from the Atlanta airport. Ramadhan replies that he's relieved. "God willing," he says, "someday I will make it, too." As they eat, Batulo's family peppers her with questions. Is there a still a mango hanging from the tree outside the transit center in Nairobi? How many countries did you fly through to get here? When we left, you didn't look like this. Why are you so thin? Ibrahim brings out some of his favorite new toys. Together, they sing the ABCs. He falls asleep, curled up on the floor beside his sister. Abdalla yawns, then quickly gulps down a cup of coffee. Exhaustion is starting to set in, but this is a moment he doesn't want to miss. He leans back against the couch and listens to his daughters' voices. The only sound he hears is laughter.
Ed Sheeran is a music superstar. And that means people are clawing at the Grammy winner wherever he goes. But if you want to get your mitts on Sheeran, you’re going to have to go through his bodyguard, Kevin Myers, first. Sheeran hired security in 2015 after fans started “getting a little grabby.” Probably a good idea. And if you’re going to have a bodyguard, why not make it one who can entertain you after you’ve spent the day entertaining everyone else? Myers started an Instagram account on April 7 to document his life as Sheeran’s muscle, and he is certainly entertaining. It doesn’t look like Myers gets to rub shoulders with celebrities very often. He’s usually in the background keeping a close eye on Sheeran, as the photos often hilariously show.
Priyanka Chopra, whose espionage drama Quantico just got canceled by ABC, is reportedly dating musician Nick Jonas. "They are dating and it's brand new. It's a good match and they are both interested in each other," Us Weekly quoted a source as saying. According to the report, the couple spent the Memorial Day weekend together and even attended the Beauty and the Beast live concert at the Hollywood Bowl. Another source told People magazine, "They're flirtatious and have been hanging out and text all the time. The relationship is very casual." The couple was first seen attending the Met Gala together last year which sparked rumors of a potential relationship. In an interview with Jimmy Kimmel, Chopra said, "We were on the same table and we already know each other. So he was like 'Hey, you wanna go together?' And I was like 'Yeah, okay, let's go together.' It ended up working out." Glen yesterday with friends 2/2 A post shared by Glen Powell Fans (@glenpowell_) on May 29, 2018 at 12:49pm PDT In the past, Nick Jonas has dated Miley Cyrus, Selena Gomez, Gigi Hadid, Kendall Jenner and Rita Ora among several others. Chopra's last publicly-known relationship was with Shahid Kapoor and she's said she's been single ever since. HuffPost India has reached out to PC's reps and is awaiting a response. Also see on HuffPost:
President Donald Trump announced on Tuesday that the U.S. will withdraw from the international nuclear accord with Iran, the landmark 2015 agreement curbing Iran’s nuclear development program in return for sanctions relief. By ending America’s participation in the deal, Trump fulfills a major campaign promise. But the decision could set the stage for an international political crisis and uncertainty over the future of Iran’s nuclear program. Here’s what you need to know about the agreement: The Deal Also known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the deal is the result of a decade of international negotiations to curb Tehran’s nuclear ambitions. Although Iran is banned from possessing nuclear weapons as a state party of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, it failed to disclose the existence of its uranium-enrichment program for 18 years, causing alarm when its clandestine program was revealed in 2003. Negotiators from Iran and six other world powers, including the United Nations Security Council’s five permanent members and Germany, reached the historic agreement on July 14, 2015. It placed strict limits on Tehran’s nuclear program that were set to last for more than a decade. The United Nations Security Council endorsed the deal on July 20, 2015, officially agreeing to “terminate” U.N. sanctions on Iran. Danish Siddiqui / Reuters Iranian President Hassan Rouhani attends a meeting with Muslim leaders and scholars in Hyderabad, India, February 15, 2018. The JCPOA was a “once in a lifetime opportunity,” then-President Barack Obama said at the time it was agreed. “This is our best bet by far to make sure Iran doesn’t get a nuclear weapon,” Obama added. Tehran had always maintained that its nuclear development was only intended for energy and other peaceful purposes, but fears the Islamic Republic was working on developing a nuclear bomb had been rising in the West. Critics of the agreement, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, argued that the deal at its core was not tough enough on Iran. “Not a single nuclear facility is shut down, including the underground facilities that [Iran builds] illicitly,” Netanyahu said in 2015. “Thousands of centrifuges will keep spinning, enriching uranium. That’s a very bad deal.” Trump has echoed these concerns, repeatedly calling it “the worst deal ever.” KEVIN LAMARQUE via Getty Images What It Does At its most basic level, the deal meant Iran agreed to put heavy restrictions on its nuclear program in exchange for world powers lifting economic sanctions that target the country. The deal lasts until 2030, with some restrictions expiring before then and other inspection measures extending years beyond that date. Prior to the agreement, international sanctions and trade embargoes had cost the Iranian economy tens of billions of dollars. Iran stood to benefit from a potential increase in foreign investment and access to the Swift international banking system. In return, the rest of the parties to the agreement believed they had security that Iran was always at least a year away from being able to build a nuclear weapon during the time that the deal was enforced. Under the terms of the deal, Iran agreed to remove or reduce many of the components needed to create nuclear weapons. The country accepted a 98 percent reduction of its uranium stockpile, the removal of a reactor core used to make plutonium at the Arak heavy water plant and the reduction of thousands of centrifuges needed to enrich uranium. Iran also agreed to limit its research and development work, as well as several other restrictions. The deal contained strict rules on monitoring and inspection of Iran’s nuclear sites. The International Atomic Energy Agency was required to extensively monitor Iran’s nuclear facilities, and IAEA workers had access to a live video stream of areas including Iranian uranium enrichment plants. Inspectors also have wide-ranging access to sites within the country that they deem necessary to investigate. While conducting this monitoring and inspection regime, the IAEA confirmed nine times that Iran was in compliance with the JCPOA. JIM WATSON via Getty Images
Hoi An, Vietnam (CNN) New Yorker Neal Bermas had traveled around the world, but Vietnam literally stopped him in his tracks. There, the businessman saw starving children in Ho Chi Minh City while on a trip to Asia in 1999. "There were bands of these poor, homeless kids on the streets ... and they were begging for milk, not for money," Bermas said. "It stayed with me." Bermas, who did consulting for hotels and restaurants, saw there was an effort under way to help street kids get simple food service jobs. He realized he could help. Combining his business savvy with an ambitious nonprofit model, in 2007 he co-founded STREETS International , based in Hoi An. The organization provides at-risk young people with a rigorous 18-month training program, preparing them for careers in Vietnam's booming culinary and hospitality industries. "(They) come from the whole country with all kinds of very, very difficult paths," Bermas said. "We offer them a structured program and a very rich apprenticing experience." STREETS' participants range in age from 16 to 22. The group provides housing, meals, medical care, clothing and support services to help trainees gain skills and confidence for employment at top resorts. Some come from more than 600 miles away to participate in the free program. They receive a stipend and transportation assistance to visit their family. "We build possibilities and aspirations for those communities," Bermas said. "Where we take one young person from the village, suddenly ... the whole village starts to think about, 'maybe my kid, too.'" Currently, 75 trainees are enrolled. The group's full-time staff and teachers are all Vietnamese, and Bermas often brings in chefs and other experts to enhance the training. He and his team work with the government and ensure they follow all safety and labor laws and regulations. JUST WATCHED CNN Hero Neal Bermas: 'Oodles of Noodles' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Hero Neal Bermas: 'Oodles of Noodles' 02:39 By the end of this year, nearly 250 young people will have completed the program. Bermas said 100% of STREETS graduates have found employment, mostly at four- and five-star hotels in Vietnam. "It works. And that's a push to do more to reach more young people," he said, adding that the group stays in regular contact with all graduates for at least two years after graduation, most longer. Bermas plans to expand the program to other areas of the country. CNN's Allie Torgan spoke with Bermas about his work. Below is an edited version of their conversation. CNN: Who are the young people applying to your program? Bermas: All the young people in our program come from poverty -- without enough to eat, without electricity and plumbing. From leprosy villages, from HIV backgrounds; some have been trafficked, sometimes more than once. Part of the process of selecting and getting to know the trainees is that we visit wherever they're from -- the home, in many cases the orphanage, the NGO, the isolated village, sometimes even a street corner. We want to know the most about them we possibly can, how difficult their conditions have been and how they have been wounded by life. Or what support there is. It's a great resource to a young person's development in our program. This is the first real chance for many (of them) to transition from poverty and life on the streets to the dignity of self-sufficiency that comes with a successful career. You shouldn't discount a young person's future because of their past, no matter how dire it's been. CNN: You've created an extensive program. Besides the hands-on culinary and hospitality training, what else is involved? Bermas: There's a whole team of colleagues, educators and professionals who have worked developing all this. We have daily curriculums and lesson plans, from the first day to the last day -- designed to deliver quite sophisticated, substantive material. We have a computer language lab. We have tutoring every day of the week. English language instruction is a big part. And a whole array of life skills, from hygiene to CPR, budgeting and banking, physical exercise and being healthy. Depending on which track the trainees are going, they have classroom experience in a small teaching kitchen if they're becoming professional chefs, or in the classroom to learn about hospitality and service. And our three eateries have many purposes; each one brings a different set of skills for apprenticing. CNN: You left Manhattan behind to do this. Why did you decide to move to Vietnam? Bermas: The truth is, the early vision was that I would work with colleagues and assemble a team here. And I could travel back and forth and make sure everything was going well. It became clear very early on that if I was to really realize this ambition on behalf of the young people in the program, I would have to be here and do it. It was probably the best, if not certainly the most meaningful, decision I've made in my adult life. This work at STREETS is never easy, but it's important. I know now that I need to be sure there is a STREETS around 10 years from now. CNN: You've kept your focus on the local community. How have they embraced you? Bermas: It's traditional here in Vietnam when you open a new business that the business community and friends and family all send you large wreaths of flowers opening day to wish you good luck. The day we opened the restaurant -- we'd been working so hard to open, to get this thing going -- and I came down the street, and there were so many of these big, beautiful wreaths full of flowers that said in Vietnamese, "Congratulations" and "Welcome." And who had sent them? All the local shops and friends we had made. I was so touched by this. The flowers poured out into the street. It was amazing. I literally couldn't get in the front door of the restaurant. Want to get involved? Check out the STREETS International website and see how to help. To donate to STREETS, click the CrowdRise widget below.
This essay is part of a column called The Wisdom Project by David Allan, editorial director of CNN Health and Wellness. The series is on applying to one's life the wisdom and philosophy found everywhere, from ancient texts to pop culture. You can follow David at @davidgallan . Don't miss another Wisdom Project column; subscribe here . (CNN) Have you ever asked yourself why you wanted (or want) to have children? Those who wrestled with the decision or struggled to conceive a child have probably thought about it a good deal. And some have always known the answer, maybe since they were kids themselves. But for many parents and would-be parents, the question may seem odd or elementary -- which makes it a great question to tackle. One answer is that we, as a species, harbor an evolutionary drive to propagate. Our small part -- at its most basic, perhaps unconscious and even (by design) pleasurable level -- is to carry on our DNA to the next generation. If enough of us do that (and we avoid destroying the planet), human beings will thrive. Another answer is simply social and cultural norms. The majority of the people you know, and most of those you don't, are doing it. This is why people who don't have kids often have an answer to "Why?" at the ready: because everyone asks them. Rarely, though, are parents asked what motivated them to have kids. There's little need to explain behavior that is typical and expected. But even with evolutionary hardwiring and societal peer pressure as part of the equation, that usually doesn't fully explain the unique, individual drives that lead people to want to make other people. Whatever your reason, it says something important about you and about the kind of parent you are or hope to be. I think it's worth exploring. You are the parenting expert you've been looking for Why did you decide to have children? Why do you want one, or a second or third? What is it about your personal desires, history, influences and beliefs that led to such a major life decision? Why spend so much time and money, and take on all that additional stress, anxiety and responsibility? Knowing why you got into this game can give you the insight needed to play it to the best of your ability. You are your own best guide to navigating the million and one parenting questions, conundrums and choices you will face from here on out. Historically, people have had children out of economic necessity, to work the farm, for example. Conversely, children can be symbols of prosperity. They can be a reflection of yourself or a vessel for your own wishes and goals. Or parenting can be a noble act of sacrifice for the greater good. Pete Seeger is credited with this sweet answer: "We do it for the high wages ... kisses." When I asked friends and family this question, it was interesting to see how some knew their answers right away while others stared off in the distance with a puzzled look on their faces, as if they'd never pondered it before. Here's a taste: Re-create my own childhood joys Grow and share familial love Make myself a better person Start my own family after being on my own for a long time Add to a greater sense of life's purpose Fit in and meet society's expectations Because kids are fun to hang out with and talk to Help make the world a better place Be a better parent than I had A spiritual call to action Repay what I owe my parents Give in to a biological urge Cultivate a strong relationship with my kids so they remain a part of my life after they move out My wife had her answer at the ready: "I wanted to feel the intense love a parent has for a child." It's a desire she's had since she was a young girl. As I began to tell her my reason, I saw a nervous look on her face. "I feel like we should have had this conversation before we had kids," she said, cutting me off. "What if I don't think your answer is a good one?" "Too late," I said. My reasoning lies in the high premium I put on experience: travel. Film. Reading. Writing. Storytelling. Humor. Food and drink (more drink than food). Spirituality. Nature. Being a parent is a unique experience. I am aware of the missed adventures and career options I might have pursued were it not for my two daughters. But still, being their father comes out far ahead. I also hubristically thought I'd be very good at parenting. There's a part of me that wanted to improve upon my own upbringing. Since I was a kid, I'd been convinced I would be an amazing father. That was, of course, before I became one. Parenting, it turns out, is humbling in the way it exposes your insecurities and personality flaws. I'm getting better, and I try to live up to that potential, but I routinely fall short -- which every parent can relate to. Put your answer to good use "Mindful parenting" is one of the most enlightened trends in the history of parenting techniques. It's about being present with your children but also better understanding your motivations and feelings while parenting. Getting in touch with your motivation for becoming a parent gives you a perspective too often lacking at difficult parenting moments. My answer, about wanting these unique and varied parenting experiences, has helped me embrace a wider spectrum of them. It's easy to revel in a bear hug or a shared laugh, but I'm extending that love of experience for more challenging moments, such getting screamed at in the middle of a bath time. Staying present and connected to whatever is going on when I'm with my daughters gives them more of the attention they need from me and makes meaningful moments more frequent and poignant. Your own answer to the question is something of a parental compass needle too, pointing the way when you are unsure how to parent in a given situation. Get back to the roots of your parenting motivation. It could impact how you respond to frustrating moments, how you spend your weekends, what behavior you model and how you talk to your children about life. New CNN Parenting column: Go Ask Your Dad This column, The Wisdom Project , is getting a spinoff series called Go Ask Your Dad, about parenting wisdom. There is no shortage of parenting advice out there -- professional, familial, terrible -- but there is not enough that looks beyond the new trend or list of tips to get at what we want out of life for ourselves and our children. Subscribe to this column Don't miss another Wisdom Project column by subscribing here. Go Ask Your Dad will explore useful paradigms and best parenting practices that will help you think of old problems in new ways or new problems previous generations didn't face. And for free, I'll throw in social science research, personal anecdotes and too many metaphors. We all need guideposts through this (at times, uncharted) desert, so that we know we're on the right path. Start with the question of why you headed out on the path in the first place. The answer to why you became a parent will help you more clearly draw your map.
(CNN) Blame President Trump for his tepid moral response. Call the neo-Nazis and white nationalists thugs. Fill your Facebook and Twitter accounts with moral outrage. But the tragedy that took place in Charlottesville this month could not have occurred without the tacit acceptance of millions of ordinary, law-abiding Americans who helped create such a racially explosive climate, some activists, historians and victims of extremism say. It's easy to focus on the angry white men in paramilitary gear who looked like they were mobilizing for a race war in the Virginia college town. But it's the ordinary people -- the voters who elected a reality TV star with a record of making racially insensitive comments, the people who move out of the neighborhood when people of color move in, the family members who ignore a relative's anti-Semitism -- who give these type of men room to operate, they say. Riot police form a line of defense in front of the statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee in Emancipation Park, recently renamed from Lee Park. Riot police form a line of defense in front of the statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee in Emancipation Park, recently renamed from Lee Park. Counterprotesters line the route taken by white nationalists and neo-Nazis during the "Unite the Right" rally. After clashes with anti-fascist protesters and police, the rally was declared an unlawful gathering and people were forced out of Emancipation Park, formerly called Lee Park and home to a controversial statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. Counterprotesters line the route taken by white nationalists and neo-Nazis during the "Unite the Right" rally. After clashes with anti-fascist protesters and police, the rally was declared an unlawful gathering and people were forced out of Emancipation Park, formerly called Lee Park and home to a controversial statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. A woman is treated for exposure to pepper spray during clashes between white nationalists and counterprotesters at Emancipation Park. A woman is treated for exposure to pepper spray during clashes between white nationalists and counterprotesters at Emancipation Park. White nationalists, neo-Nazis and members of the alt-right movement exchange volleys of pepper spray with counterprotesters as they enter Emancipation Park. White nationalists, neo-Nazis and members of the alt-right movement exchange volleys of pepper spray with counterprotesters as they enter Emancipation Park. A white nationalist is seen with a cut below his eye suffered during clashes with counterprotesters at Emancipation Park . A white nationalist is seen with a cut below his eye suffered during clashes with counterprotesters at Emancipation Park . A counterprotester uses a lighted spray can against a white nationalist at the entrance to Emancipation Park. A counterprotester uses a lighted spray can against a white nationalist at the entrance to Emancipation Park. A counterprotester strikes a white nationalist with a baton during clashes at Emancipation Park, where white nationalists are protesting the removal of the Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee monument. A counterprotester strikes a white nationalist with a baton during clashes at Emancipation Park, where white nationalists are protesting the removal of the Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee monument. A woman receives first aid after a speeding car slammed into this silver convertible as it navigated through a crowd of counterprotesters. A woman receives first aid after a speeding car slammed into this silver convertible as it navigated through a crowd of counterprotesters. People fly into the air as a vehicle drives into a group of people demonstrating against a white nationalist rally after police cleared Emancipation Park in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday, August 12. People fly into the air as a vehicle drives into a group of people demonstrating against a white nationalist rally after police cleared Emancipation Park in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday, August 12. That was the twisted formula that made the Holocaust and Rwanda possible and allowed Jim Crow segregation to survive: Nice people looked the other way while those with an appetite for violence did the dirty work, says Mark Naison, a political activist and history professor at Fordham University in New York City. ''You have to have millions of people who are willing to be bystanders, who push aside evidence of racism, Islamophobia or sexism. You can't have one without the other,'' Naison says. "We are a country with a few million passionate white supremacists -- and tens of millions of white supremacists by default," he says. Many people prefer to focus on the usual suspects after a Charlottesville happens -- the violent racial extremists who are so easy to condemn. Yet there are four types of ordinary people who also play a part in the country's racial divisions, Naison and others say: No. 1: The 'down-low' segregationists Many of the white racists who marched in Charlottesville were condemned because they openly said they don't believe in integration or racial equality. But millions of ordinary white Americans have been sending that message to black and brown people for at least a half a century. They send it with their actions: They don't want to live next to or send their children to school with black or brown people, historians say. Busing, a nationwide campaign to end school segregation by shipping students of color to white schools, collapsed in large part because of fierce opposition by white parents. "White flight" -- white families fleeing city neighborhoods after people of color moved in -- helped create the modern suburbs. Think only white supremacists oppose integration? These ordinary white Boston parents protested busing in 1974. This isn't the Jim Crow segregation that one reads about in the history books. It's the covert or "down-low" segregationist movement that has shaped much of contemporary America since overt racism became taboo in the 1960s, says David Billings, who wrote about growing up white in the segregated South in his memoir, "Deep Denial: The Persistence of White Supremacy in United States History and Life." "Across the country, white people withdrew from the 'public' sphere and migrated to 'whites only' suburbs to evade racial integration," Billings wrote. "The word 'public' preceding words like 'housing,' 'hospital,' 'health care,' 'transportation,' 'defender,' 'schools,' and even 'swimming pool' in some parts of the country became code words that meant poor and most often black and Latino. The word 'private' began to mean 'better.''' This white separatism continues today. Whites move out so often when nonwhites move in that sociologists have a name for the phenomenon. It's called "racial tipping." This separation also occurs in the private lives of many white Americans, according to one pollster. In 2013, Robert Jones, CEO of the Public Religion Research Institute, made a splash after conducting a survey where he found that 75% of whites in the United States didn't have a single person of color in their social circle -- they only had white friends. We are a country with a few million passionate white supremacists -- and tens of millions of white supremacists by default. Mark Naison, a political activist and history professor at Fordham University Jones polled a complex subject. Many people of color self-segregate as well, and some American neighborhoods are so segregated that residents never come in contact with people of other racial or ethnic groups. Yet some white Americans are driven by the same impulses that drove some of the white racists in Charlottesville -- racial separation. "White people in the past century and a half have made a conscious effort to resegregate themselves," says Edward Ball , author of "Slaves in the Family," a memoir about coming to terms with learning his family owned slaves. "We have to work hard to make our social lives reflect our values, because white people do not choose the company of people of color generally," he says. Ball once wrote that "unconsciously or inadvertently, all of us white folks participate in forms of supremacist thought and activity." The angry white men in Charlottesville were just being open about their white supremacy. Ball says he wasn't surprised by their boldness. "Their climate is now better for them," he says. No. 2: Those who say 'yes, but...' President Trump's critics blasted him for not coming out strong enough against the white racists who marched in Charlottesville. Trump initially denounced the "egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence on many sides." It was the "many sides" qualifier that infuriated some people. They wanted an unequivocal denunciation of racism from a leader. Trump's "many sides" response, though, wasn't that abnormal in the context of US history. It used to be the norm for white political leaders to draw a moral equivalence between racists and those who suffered from their acts of brutality, historians say. It's the "yes, but" rhetorical maneuver -- condemn racism but add a qualifier to diminish the sincerity of what you just said. White families fleeing people of color helped create suburban America. It's called "white flight." The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. ran into this "yes, but" response so much that he wrote about it in his "Letter from Birmingham Jail." He wrote: "I have almost reached the regrettable conclusion that the Negro's great stumbling block in his stride toward freedom is not the White Citizens' Counciler or the Ku Klux Klanner, but the white moderate who is more devoted to 'order' than to justice; who prefers a negative peace, which is the absence of tension, to a positive peace, which is the presence of justice; who constantly says: 'I agree with you in the goal you seek, but I cannot agree with your methods of direct action...'" President Dwight Eisenhower took the "yes, but" approach when he complained he couldn't move too fast to comply with the Supreme Court's decision to integrate schools because people had to respect the Southern way of life, says Carol Anderson, author of "White Rage" and a professor of African-American studies at Emory University in Atlanta. A recent Washington Post article gave other examples: When Southern governors like Orval Faubus of Arkansas and Earl Long of Louisiana were pressured in the 1950s to end segregation, they called both the NAACP and the White Citizens' Councils, a rabid segregationist group, "extremists." The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. once said moderate whites who refused to take a stand on racial justice angered him more than the KKK. "You get that equivocation," says Anderson, "that trying to make a system that absolutely strips people of their humanity on par with people demanding their humanity." That "yes, but" approach is often used today to discredit the grievances of the Black Lives Matter movement, another professor says. Whenever an unarmed black or brown person is shot by police, some deflect the issue by saying, "Yes, but all lives matter." "When a police officer shoots an unarmed black person, even then it's controversial to say racism is a factor," says Erik Love, a sociologist at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania. "We say, 'Why don't we talk about these other issues. What about the crime rate, what police officers need to protect themselves.' And suddenly we're not talking about race anymore." No. 3: Those who choose chaos There's a famous line from the classic film, "Casablanca." A police officer is closing down a casino, declaring, "I'm shocked -- shocked -- to find that gambling is going on in here!" -- all while pocketing his casino winnings as they're being handed to him on the sly. That line could apply to Trump supporters who say they're frustrated by the President's statements on race since Charlottesville erupted. How could you be shocked? "This is who he is, this is what he does," says Anderson, the Emory University professor. "'Mexicans are rapists and criminals.' That's what he said in his first speech. Their complicity comes in the form of self-denial instead of owning it." For those who say they voted for Trump despite his intolerance, Anderson offers this analogy: Minister Louis Farrakhan. Farrakhan is a leader in some parts of the black community because of his message of self-help and black empowerment. He reached peak popularity in the 1990s, but he also preached anti-Semitic, anti-white, anti-Catholic and anti-homosexual rhetoric . And the organization he leads, the Nation of Islam, has taught that white people are inherently evil. Fordham professor Mark Naison says America is at a scary place now where open, communal warfare could erupt. "If he was running for office and black people voted in droves for him, the narrative would be, 'They're supporting a racist,''' she says. Ta-Nehisi Coates, an acclaimed writer on race relations, made a similar argument after Trump's election in an interview with Vox's Ezra Klein , where he responded to commentators who said not all white voters who supported Trump endorsed all of his ideas. "As my buddy said, is that what you said to the followers of Louis Farrakhan? No, nobody says that to the followers of Louis Farrakhan. No, they blasted him as an anti-Semite, which he is, and say, 'how can people follow this bigoted message?' That's the ultimate testament -- that you could be Donald Trump and be President. There is no black person who could have the kind of vices Donald Trump has and, hell, be governor. Maybe you could be mayor somewhere." Many voters knew Trump would bring something else to the Oval Office -- chaos. That's why they chose him. He's their first reality TV president, one writer says. Many voted for Trump because they liked the persona he cultivated as the star of "The Apprentice." Reality TV rewards characters who say rude and reprehensible things, characters are often cast as racial stereotypes, and those who provoke the most chaos get the most attention, says Joy Lanzendorfer, author of the Vice article, "How Reality TV Made Donald Trump President." "He would say horrible things about people, act out and break the rules, but people weirdly respected it," she says. "They said he was a winner, and that's how a winner wins." It's not, however, how many would want a nation's leader to handle a racial crisis. No. 4: Those who look the other way Ari Kohen knows something about the cost of hate. When he looked at images of neo-Nazis chanting "Jews will not replace us!" in Charlottesville, he thought of his grandfather, Zalman Kohen. He was living in rural Romania in 1944 when the Nazis rounded him up with the help of his neighbors and sent him to a death camp. This is who he is, this is what he does. 'Mexicans are rapists and criminals.' That's what he said in his first speech. Their complicity comes in the form of self-denial instead of owning it. Carol Anderson, author of "White Rage," on Trump voters who expressed dismay at his conduct after Charlottesville His grandfather survived, moved to the United States and lived until he was 90. But he never returned to Romania, says Kohen, an associate professor of political science at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. "He could never forgive his neighbors," he says. "These were people who, maybe they didn't love Jews, but these were people who lived next to each other. They knew his family and he knew their family. The idea that they could all stand by while life was completely and forever changed for large portions of their community -- he could never understand it." Many scholars have been vexed by the same question. When they examine genocidal events like the Holocaust, many come to the same conclusion: Never underestimate the ability of ordinary people to look away. Some do it with family members. Kohen says the hundreds of white racists who descended on Charlottesville must have family or friends who noticed their behavior beforehand. He suspects that some refused to confront them. "There's this wink and nod, everyone knows that this person is going down a dangerous path and people passively go along with it," he says. "They don't want to rock the boat. This is family or a friend. It's hard to distance yourself from people you care about." When ordinary people refuse to speak out, a country can descend into violence -- as it did in Northern Ireland. This passivity extends to how people react when their country's leaders become intolerant, others say. Once you see it coming, you have a duty to act, says Naison, the activist and Fordham professor. "If you don't speak up when this sort of ideology is being promoted at the highest level, you end up being complicit in the actions taken by its more extreme adherents," Naison says. "Once the demons are unleashed, you've become a co-conspirator." Naison says he doesn't think most Americans realize how dangerous it is in their country right now. He's warned people who voted for Trump. "I told these guys, you can't control this; you're playing with fire," Naison says. "Open, violent communal warfare is scary. You can't control it. Look at what happened in the Balkans, Northern Ireland, Israel." There's also evidence, though, that millions of ordinary Americans from all walks of life don't want that kind of America. Heather Heyer, the demonstrator who lost her life in Charlottesville, was a young white woman who marched in solidarity with black protesters. Millions of Americans have since taken to the streets or social media to stand against what happened there. Former President Barack Obama even weighed in with a photo and quote that's become the most liked tweet ever on Twitter. Obama quoted Nelson Mandela, the South African leader who knew something about hate and reconciliation. In his 1994 autobiography "Long Walk to Freedom," Mandela wrote: "No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin or his background or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite." Yet to get to that place Mandela talked about, it may be necessary to not just look at the usual suspects people condemn when racial violence spills into public view. If you want to know why those white racists now feel so emboldened, it may help to look at all the ordinary people around you, your neighbors, your family members, your leaders. But first, start by looking at yourself.
In an interview after the royal wedding, the photographer revealed how he got all of the children who were part of the ceremony to pose for the photos. “I could hear the kids started crying in the background and there was some chaos,” he told People. “And then I heard this magic word behind me that was Smarties, which is obviously an English candy, much like M&Ms, and they were being bribed with one Smartie here and one Smartie there.”
Dana Santas is the creator of Radius Yoga Conditioning , a yoga style designed to help athletes move, breathe and focus better. She's the yoga trainer for the Atlanta Braves, the Philadelphia Phillies, the Tampa Bay Rays, Tampa Bay Lightning, Orlando Magic and dozens of pros in the National Football League, National Hockey League, National Basketball Association and Major League Baseball. (CNN) At the start of every year, millions of people resolve to get in shape. A few months later, the majority of them have abandoned their commitments. The likely cause? Too many of us view diet and exercise programs as punishment for bad behavior rather than a positive lifestyle change. We think we can achieve our aesthetic goals of trimming and toning by forcing ourselves -- like it or not -- to show up at the gym and go through the motions. Whether walking mindlessly on the treadmill while watching TV or pushing ourselves in a bootcamp-style class designed to "crush" us, we usually disregard any connection between our mind and body in an attempt to simply get through our exercise. This war-against-our bodies, means-to-an-end approach is not only difficult to maintain, but highly destructive to our self-esteem and body image. You can frame your exercise goals to support a positive body image . Still, most get-in-shape aspirations are aesthetically focused, striving for a body that looks better rather than a mind and body that feel better. Yet connecting your mind and body is the key to dropping the "no pain, no gain" negativity and building an appreciation to sustain your efforts toward improving, inside and out. Yoga is a practice intended to cultivate a mind-body connection, increasing awareness of both your physicality and your ability to be mindful and present. By fostering a sense of self-love and respect in the moment, yoga can help you learn to respect your body as it is and honor your efforts to become healthier. Doesn't that sound more desirable and sustainable than waging a war against yourself? To benefit from yoga's mind-body approach, you don't need to become a full-fledged yogi. Simply integrate the basic yoga exercises I've outlined below into your lifestyle to initiate and maintain a positive connection between your mind and body. This will facilitate more effective follow-through in your other health and wellness practices. Pick the exercises that you like and do them at least a few times per week, always starting by establishing deep breathing. Your breath serves as the strongest bridge between your mind and body, as well as a powerful means of combating stress Remember that the idea is to train yourself to treat your body with respect and kindness, so do not force any of the poses or approach the exercises with anything other than a sense of self-care and nonjudgment. While practicing your yoga, stay focused on all the sensations you experience. Move out of any position that causes pain or feels "wrong." Maintain your concentration on breathing within each posture. If, at any point, you lose the ability to breathe deeply, back off until you regain it. Deep breathing Sit comfortably on the floor or in a chair with your hands resting on your legs. If desired, practice yoga's jnana mudra (a symbolic hand gesture of wisdom) by touching your thumb and index finger together. Slightly bow your head and close your eyes. Taking conscious control of your respiration, begin lengthening and deepening your inhalations and exhalations. Focus your awareness on the movement of your rib cage and the path of the air in and out of your nostrils. Inhale and fill your lungs to capacity, fully expanding your lower ribs. As you exhale, internally rotate your low ribs and release your rib cage downward. Avoid vertical movement as you inhale -- no shoulder shrugging. Concentrate all of your senses on the subtle sensations of your breathing for 10 or more long, deep breaths Downward dog Downward dog is one of the most recognized traditional yoga postures, but it's not necessarily the easiest. It requires total body effort with complete concentration. If you can't perform 180 degrees of shoulder flexion -- comfortably raising both arms straight above your shoulders -- don't force this position. Only go as deeply as your shoulders allow. Start on your hands and knees with your hands slightly forward of your shoulders and your hips above your knees. Turn your toes under and exhale as you lift your knees, engaging your quadriceps (muscles of the front of your legs) to begin straightening your legs while bringing your pelvis up and back to create an A-frame shape with your body. Use your midback muscles to pull your shoulder blades toward your waist, broadening your upper back and lengthening your spine. The tailbone should serve as the apex of the posture without rounding in the low back. Modified bent-knee downward dog Initially, keep your knees bent in downward dog as you work on alignment, strength and mobility before attempting the full expression of the pose with straight legs and full shoulder flexion. You can also slowly pedal out your heels, by straightening one leg at a time to ease into the posture. Hold for five or more long deep breaths, being mindful of all the points of instruction and the corresponding sensations of strengthening and stretching in your body. Warrior series Move through warrior one, warrior two and reverse warrior, holding each position for three to five breaths before reversing back through the series to standing. Repeat on the other side. Warrior one From standing, step your right leg back into a lunge but drop your heel all the way down and point your toes out slightly. Keep your back leg straight with your forward knee flexed to align above your ankle. Lift your arms overhead, shoulder-distance apart, keeping the shoulder blades stable down the back to maintain length in your neck. Hold for three to five long, deep breaths, concentrating on a balance of strength and stretch in your legs and stability in your core. Warrior two From warrior one pose, open your right hip to angle your right foot out to 90 degrees. Maintain the muscular effort from the previous pose to keep your right leg straight and your left knee bent above your ankle. Do not allow the knee to dip inward and come out of alignment with the ankle. Open your upper body to the right as you bring your arms down to shoulder height and out to the sides, aligned over your hips. Reach your right arm back and left arm forward with your palms down. Look over your front hand and take three to five long, deep breaths, focusing on the opposing reach of your arms and sense of strength and balance in your body. Reverse warrior From warrior two position, inhale as you turn left palm up and sweep your forward arm up and back, creating a significant side stretch and lateral bend. Allow your right hand to slide down the back your right leg while you maintain the current position of your hips/pelvis, legs and feet. Hold for three to five long, deep breaths with your attention on filling the left side of your rib cage on inhalations to expand and stretch side waist muscles, and using exhalations to tuck the right ribs and increase the depth of the posture. Progressive muscle contraction/relaxation This practice is all about using the mind to speak to the body. You can do this practice from virtually any position as it uses mostly isometric muscles contractions and requires very little to no movement. My pro athlete clients commonly use this technique to release tension while lying down in bed or while seated during long flights. Close your eyes and focus your attention at the top your head. Breathe in and out. On your next inhalation, close your eyes tightly and tighten your jaw by clenching your teeth. Exhale to release. Inhale fully into your rib cage and hold your breath, creating tension in your chest, upper back and neck. Exhale to release. Inhale and squeeze your hands into fists, trying to make contact and create tension in all the muscles of your arms. Exhale to release. Inhale to squeeze the muscles of your bottom and pelvic floor, tightening your abdomen as well. Exhale to release. Inhale to curl your toes and try to make contact and create tension in all the muscles of your legs. Exhale to release. Take five more, long, deep breaths, while immersing your mind in the sense of resting in awareness of your body in a state of complete relaxation.
(CNN) The NAACP has described itself as the "oldest and boldest" civil rights group in America, but it may soon tack on another word to its billing: "woke." The slang term, used to describe an unaware person who has become socially conscious, is how one national NAACP leader described the group's recent metamorphosis. Others talked with unabashed excitement about the civil rights movement becoming "more militant" and "back to the streets." In-your-face rhetoric is not usually associated with the venerable NAACP. The 108-year-old organization has been like the Cadillac of civil rights groups -- its name still has cachet, but people prefer newer models of activism. It's been overshadowed by Black Lives Matter and accused of being obsolete. The Green Book, a pamphlet listing safe places to stay and eat for black drivers, was the black version of Triple-AAA during the Jim Crow era. But something changed when a local NAACP official recently found a way to catapult the group back into the national spotlight. He issued a travel advisory for the state of Missouri, urging "extreme CAUTION" for any person of color traveling there. The advisory evoked the Green Book , a pamphlet that guided black motorists across the treacherous terrain of Jim Crow's America. Reporters started asking if Missouri is the new Mississippi. And NAACP leaders seemed delighted. "We were built for this moment," says John Gaskin, a spokesman for the group's St. Louis branch. "Cadillacs are built for the highways." Yet the story behind the story -- why the NAACP came up with the advisory and what it says about a potentially seismic shift in the group's philosophy -- is as interesting as the advisory itself. Over the top or on the mark? Start with a basic question: Is the advisory really necessary, or is it a bit over the top? Consider the history. This is the first time the NAACP has issued a travel advisory. It was founded during a period of widespread lynching in the United States and didn't issue one then. The NAACP is known for its civil rights work in the legal arena. But will the legacy of NAACP giants like Thurgood Marshall, in center, matter much in the era of Black Lives Matter? It didn't issue one after four black girls were killed in a church bombing in Birmingham, Alabama, in 1963. It didn't issue one when Medgar Evers, one of its most prominent leaders, was shot to death in front of his Mississippi home that same year. It didn't issue one when riots erupted across America after the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. five years later. Why now? Nimrod "Rod" Chapel Jr., president of the NAACP's Missouri State Conference, says he decided to issue the advisory after the state's Legislature passed a law in June making it more difficult to sue for housing or job discrimination. The full NAACP subsequently adopted his advisory at its national convention. Chapel says the Missouri law "is worse than Jim Crow in some ways." As justification for the advisory, he also cited a report that said black motorists are 75% more likely to be stopped by officers in Missouri than white drivers. Some may say there goes a bunch of crazy kids. These are young folks who were concerned about their community, and they did something about it. That's called activism. In the NAACP, there's room for everybody, whether it's Black Lives Matter or other people of conscience. Nimrod "Rod" Chapel Jr., president of the NAACP's Missouri State Conference, on the Black Lives Matter movement "I don't think we could have responsibly done anything less," Chapel says. "We have a society in Missouri that has turned its back on morality. You cannot legalize discrimination and harassment, and they've done that by giving immunity to people who do it." Then there's Missouri's peculiar history. It's where race riots erupted in 2014 in the St. Louis suburb of Ferguson after a white police officer shot Michael Brown, an unarmed black youth, to death. None of that, though, is enough to merit the group's first travel advisory, one critic says. Rick Moran, an editor with American Thinker, condemned the travel advisory in a recent column . He says it was much more dangerous driving while black in Jim Crow Mississippi than contemporary Missouri. "The whole thing is nonsense," Moran says. "It's a fundraising gimmick. It just seems like that's something you do when you're sitting around the table and someone says, 'Gee, we're kind of low on fundraising, what can we do to goose that number?' " Gaskin, of the St. Louis NAACP, acknowledged that the type of racism in contemporary Missouri is not as lethal as other eras in American history. He cited the 1964 murder of three civil rights workers ambushed on a rural Mississippi road, which was depicted in the movie "Mississippi Burning." But that doesn't mean the travel advisory isn't merited, he says. "Racism here in Missouri is hidden, and that can be the most devastating racism," Gaskin says. "We're not talking 'Mississippi Burning' racism. We're talking about the sort of racism of being pulled over and asked additional questions that you might not be asked in Illinois. Folks on your street might not be so welcoming." The advisory may have done its job. It focused national attention on the state of Missouri and brought publicity to the NAACP, which only last month had been publicly blasted by a powerful group of black ministers for verging on irrelevance. "The work of the NAACP is more important than ever before," Gaskin says. "If it wasn't relevant, this wouldn't be the leading story of the last couple of days. That's why this made the headlines -- because this is the NAACP." During the era of Jim Crow, highway travel could be treacherous for black families. Many dressed up for travel but packed their own food because they weren't allowed to eat at many restaurants. And at least one historian who is an authority on driving while black during those "Mississippi Burning" days wasn't offended by the travel advisory. Calvin Ramsey wrote the play " The Green Book ," which traces the rise of the unofficial travel advisory that many blacks and Jews used during the Jim Crow era. He says he wasn't surprised by the NAACP's actions. "I guess they'd rather be over the top than under the radar," Ramsey says. "There's a lot of raw nerves since [President Donald Trump's] election. I thought that we had passed this in a lot of ways, but I was never totally convinced that we passed this completely." The notoriety the NAACP's advisory attracted is a sign of progress, he says. "We didn't have a CNN before and people were out there on their own," he says. "A lot of things happened that were never reported. The Green Book was our AAA guide because we couldn't belong to AAA. It was a lifesaver." Glimpses of a new NAACP The travel advisory also may hint at the NAACP's new direction. The group has gone through a rough patch. In May, it announced it would not renew the contract of its then-president, Cornell William Brooks. Its leaders called the decision part of a "transformational, systemwide refresh and strategic re-envisioning." The whole thing is nonsense. It's a fundraising gimmick. It just seems like that's something you do when you're sitting around the table and someone says, 'Gee, we're kind of low on fundraising, what can we do to goose that number?' " Rick Moran, conservative columnist on the NAACP's travel advisory for the state of Missouri In June, the group held its annual national convention, where leaders talked openly about trying to remain relevant. One writer, Michael A. Fletcher of ESPN, while covering the convention said the group's traditional approach of working within legal and legislative channels for social change can now seem " ponderous or even irrelevant" because of the "raucous" demonstrations of groups like Black Lives Matter. And just weeks before the convention, a group of black ministers released a blistering open letter demanding that the NAACP change. The African Methodist Episcopal Church's Council of Bishops called on NAACP leaders to "restructure the organization" to avoid irrelevancy. The A.M.E. Church is a pillar in the black community and has provided many of the NAACP's best-known leaders. "Longevity alone is not proof of relevance," the statement read. "For the reality is that today the NAACP is smaller and less influential than it has ever been in its history." How would a new NAACP look if it answered the challenge by the A.M.E. Church? It may look a little more like Black Livers Matter. Ferguson demonstrators during 2014 protests over the police shooting of Michael Brown. The wave of activism following Ferguson has challenged the NAACP to rethink its tactics. Traditional civil rights group have been wary and critical of Black Lives Matter activists. The movement, which gives prominent places of power to women and members of the LGBT community, is run very differently than many civil rights groups. Traditional civil rights groups evolved out of the black church, which tended to be led by autocratic men who condemned gays and lesbians and didn't see women as equals. Even today, some black churches still won't allow women to preach and few officially affirm gay and lesbians. Some of that wariness also may be rooted in generational differences. There have often been clashes between older civil rights leaders and the young folks they condemned for moving too fast and being too aggressive. Andrew Young, a close aide to King, once apologized after calling Black Lives Matter activists "unlovable little brats." Now, however, at least some NAACP leaders are talking about Black Lives Matter activists as potential allies, not rivals. Chapel, the Missouri NAACP official who issued the travel advisory, says he admires Black Lives Matter. "Some may say there goes a bunch of crazy kids," he says. "These are young folks who were concerned about their community, and they did something about it. That's called activism. In the NAACP, there's room for everybody, whether it's Black Lives Matter or other people of conscience." The NAACP has lasted a long time for a reason. There's a risk when you copy the latest flavor. You risk losing your core constituency. Shayne Lee, University of Houston sociologist Anthony Davis, national coordinator for the college and youth division of the NAACP, is a fan as well. "I love it," he says. "As a result of the Black Lives Matter movement, the social justice and civil rights movement has been able to become more militant. It's OK to be back in the streets. We would love to partner and work with Black Lives Matter because we appreciate them for what they do." Davis says the NAACP is already adjusting its outreach to younger people. He says it's creating more engaging platforms on social media to attract youth and touring with hip-hop stars to register voters for the 2018 midterms. "Over the last year, we've done a good job branding ourselves as not only this historic civil rights group, but the youth and college division is more hip and, I hate to use this term, but, 'woke,' " Davis says. Becoming more like Black Lives Matter, though, might not be good for the NAACP, one sociologist says. He says the group lacks structure and long-term vision. The Black Lives Matter movement has also been weakened by infighting. "The NAACP has lasted a long time for a reason," says Shayne Lee, a sociologist with the University of Houston. "There's a risk when you copy the latest flavor. You risk losing your core constituency." The Missouri travel advisory may mark a new direction for the NAACP, but the kind of leader the group chooses next may serve as the ultimate proof of a new "woke" NAACP. Gaskin, the St. Louis NAACP leader, sounds confident. Some in the black community, he says, were asleep during the last eight years while Barack Obama was President. Now they're in the Trump era, and they're taking a second look at the NAACP. "At that time, they didn't think they needed us," he says. "You don't miss water until your well dries." The next few months and years will show if the group can not only be "bold," "old" and "woke,'' but do something else: Adapt.
Whatever your style, surely you’ll find some inspiration in the hairstyles below: Maybe you’re looking for something long and sleek, like Sandra Bullock , or you want to embrace your natural curls, like Kerry Washington , or perhaps you want to channel your inner Tan France and let your salt-and-pepper mane become your signature. We compiled 50 of our favorite celebrity hairstyles for both men and women to try right now. With summer approaching, it’s a prime time to chop off all that fall and winter hair damage and try out a new ’do. Looking to change things up with your hair, but not sure where to start? Tan France Jean Baptiste Lacroix via Getty Images "Queer Eye" star Tan France is always rocking his signature salt-and-pepper 'do, with plenty of volume on top and clean, cropped sides. Lucy Hale Matthew Eisman via Getty Images The actress' honey-blond lob hairstyle is perfect for summer. Kerry Washington Mike Coppola via Getty Images Kerry Washington's natural curls are full of texture and volume. Katie Holmes Roy Rochlin via Getty Images Katie Holmes' cropped cut is fun, flirty and ﻿﻿great for summer. Constance Wu Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images Not many people can pull off short bangs, but Constance Wu really rocks them. If you're feeling a little adventurous, this is a great style to try. Rita Moreno Frazer Harrison via Getty Images Rita Moreno is proof that gray hair is beautiful. We love her layered cut, which has plenty of volume and movement. Bella Hadid Emma McIntyre via Getty Images The model's sleek ponytail-bun hybrid is a great style to try, especially when you want to keep frizz at bay. The more gel, the better in this case. Lucy Liu Jemal Countess via Getty Images Lucy Liu recently debuted lighter locks, and we have to say, we love this color, especially for the warmer weather. Anderson Cooper Gary Gershoff via Getty Images Anderson Cooper's signature silver hair always looks perfectly groomed. Molly Ringwald Amanda Edwards via Getty Images If you want something playful for summer outings or date night, Molly Ringwald's tousled updo with shaggy bangs is perfect. Lupita Nyong'o Taylor Hill via Getty Images Lupita Nyong'o loves changing it up when it comes to her hair. We love these " afro puffs " by stylist Vernon François. Cate Blanchett Anadolu Agency via Getty Images Cate Blanchett's wavy blunt lob is the ultimate cool-girl hairstyle. Plus, this cut is flattering on pretty much everyone Shailene Woodley Tibrina Hobson via Getty Images Bangs are an easy way to change up your look without going too drastic. We love Shailene Woodley's choppy fringe -- it's not too fussy yet still packs a punch. Jenna Dewan Albert L. Ortega via Getty Images This sleek, straight bob on Jenna Dewan is timeless. Sandra Bullock Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images Sandra Bullock's signature hairstyle -- long chocolate-brown locks with just a hint of caramel color toward the ends -- is always a winner. Emilia Clarke Paul Bruinooge via Getty Images For those who want a bolder look, going platinum blond like Emilia Clarke is definitely an option. Mila Kunis Steve Granitz via Getty Images Mila Kunis was recently sporting a wavy bob with bangs, which feels fresh and light for summer. Chadwick Boseman John Shearer via Getty Images Chadwick Boseman's hair at the 2018 Met Gala featured plenty of volume on top with an expert fade on the sides. Ava DuVernay Roy Rochlin via Getty Images Ava DuVernay considers her locks a crown adorning her head. This style, which has become her signature, is gorgeous and regal. Jared Leto Lester Cohen via Getty Images Jared Leto's '70s-inspired shaggy hairstyle is pretty much hair goals for men and women. The subtle ombre, the long layers -- it looks effortless. Katy Perry David Livingston via Getty Images The "American Idol" judge has been rocking her cropped blonde 'do for a while now. It's a great style for anyone looking for a bold change. Simon Baker Dimitrios Kambouris via Getty Images Simon Baker's hairstyle has just the right amount of texture and volume. Christina Aguilera Steve Granitz via Getty Images The classic ballerina bun, as seen on Christina Aguilera, is pretty much a perfect style for any occasion. Claire Danes Gary Gershoff via Getty Images Claire Danes' grown-out wavy lob is chic, easy and perfect for summer. Demi Lovato Steve Granitz via Getty Images Demi Lovato rocked this slicked back, fashion-forward "wet look" hairstyle at the 2018 Billboard awards. Halle Berry Desiree Navarro via Getty Images Ponytails can definitely be chic, as proven by Halle Berry. Jonathan Van Ness Dia Dipasupil via Getty Images Jonathan Van Ness is another great example of how long hair and a beard can work wonderfully on men. And he's clearly following his own advice and skipping the sulfates -- can you believe that shine? Viola Davis Paul Zimmerman via Getty Images If you want to let your natural curls take center stage, look no further for than Viola Davis for inspiration. Halsey Steve Granitz via Getty Images Halsey's low ponytail with tendrils framing her face is the perfect look for a romantic date night. George Clooney Ray Tamarra via Getty Images When it comes to classic men's cuts, George Clooney's is definitely up there. Amber Heard Venturelli via Getty Images A high ponytail like Amber Heard's is simple, chic and great for hot weather. Margot Robbie Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Margot Robbie's wavy bob is classic, but the asymmetric cut with one side slight longer than the other adds a modern touch. Zayn Malik Desiree Navarro via Getty Images Zayn Malik's recent hairstyle is business on the sides, party on top. Meghan Trainor Slaven Vlasic via Getty Images Candy-colored hair is still going strong, and we absolutely love Meghan Trainor's pastel hue. It's bold without going overboard. Jennifer Lopez Kevin Mazur via Getty Images Go for something sleek and simple, like Jennifer Lopez's blond lob. Christina Hendricks Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images Christina Hendricks' tousled 'do with "curtain bangs" is great for the '70s-obsessed folks out there. It's got vintage vibes but still feels current. Sendhil Ramamurthy NBC via Getty Images We love the curl and texture in Sendhil Ramamurthy's hair. Julianne Hough Stefanie Keenan via Getty Images Julianne Hough's long wavy style is simple and pretty with a touch of old Hollywood glam. Claire Foy Jeff Spicer via Getty Images If you're looking for a drastic chop, why not try something like Claire Foy's grown out-bowl cut ? It's a little bit '60s mod, a little bit modern edge. Kate Beckinsale Jon Kopaloff via Getty Images If you want to try something different for a night out, take a note from Kate Beckinsale and try a half-up half-down style. Blake Lively Gabe Ginsberg via Getty Images Blake Lively is pretty much the queen of beachy hair, and this half-up style is just more proof of that. Lea Seydoux Marc Piasecki via Getty Images Lea Seydoux's asymmetrical bob is a go-to chic style. Anne Hathaway Raymond Hall via Getty Images We love Anne Hathaway's carefree waves, touched with just the right amount of golden caramel highlights. Laura Dern Presley Ann via Getty Images Laura Dern's bouncy curls are another fun and flirty style, great for any occasion. Emma Thompson Ian West - PA Images via Getty Images Emma Thompson's slicked-back and bleached style is unquestionably chic, and perfect for shorter hair. Kit Harington Amanda Edwards via Getty Images Jon Snow may know nothing, but Kit Harington knows how to rock his curly hair. Alfre Woodard David Livingston via Getty Images Alfre Woodard's full, natural curls are absolutely beautiful. Carrie-Anne Moss Gilbert Carrasquillo via Getty Images Carrie-Anne Moss is another woman who's made a case for the slicked back, wet-look style -- it's great for showing off your makeup (or just your beautiful face in general!) Chris Pine Gary Gershoff via Getty Images Chris Pine's classic cut is a good choice for anyone who's looking for a clean and simple style.
(CNN) There's no magic pill that will cure you of your cravings. But there is something that may help the effort, and it's all-natural. Research has shown that simply spicing up your diet may help you consume less salt and possibly less sugar, while potentially improving your health even beyond the reduction of salt and sugar. There is more consistent evidence that spicy food helps curb salt cravings than sugar. In a study involving more than 600 people from China whose brains were analyzed with PET/CT scans, researchers found that regions stimulated by intake of both salty and spicy foods overlapped. Because of similar activities taking place in this shared space (think of the overlapping parts of a Venn diagram), consuming spicy foods effectively enhanced one's sensitivity to salt, thereby helping people crave and consume less salt. "We think that spicy food can trick our brain when tasting salty food. It makes us taste the same (level of) saltiness even when a reduced amount of salt is actually consumed," said study author Dr. Zhiming Zhu, professor and director of the Department of Hypertension and Endocrinology at the Third Military Medical University in Chongqing, China. In fact, researchers found that people who regularly enjoy spicy foods consumed 2.5 grams less salt in a day (that's 1,000 fewer milligrams of sodium) compared with those who typically steer clear of spice. They also had lower blood pressure. It remains to be seen whether the findings can be replicated in other populations outside China, said Richard David Wainford, associate professor in the Department of Pharmacology at the Boston University School of Medicine, in an accompanying editorial. Still, "a lifestyle intervention that adds taste to the diet, in the form of extra spice and flavor, versus reduction of the pleasure given by the salt we add to our food, may have more success as a public health strategy to promote population-level dietary salt reduction," he added. Spice may have the potential to curb sugar cravings too, though the evidence is mixed. In one study involving 40 students from Denmark, when chili pepper was added to sweet, sour and bitter meals, participants experienced a greater desire to eat sweet foods compared with meals without chili added. In another study, also from Denmark, people experienced a decreased desire for salty and spicy foods when they ate tomato soup with cayenne pepper compared with eating the soup without pepper. But their desire for sweet and fatty foods significantly increased when they consumed the spicy soup. No pain, no weight gain? Capsaicin is the compound in chili peppers that is responsible for the burning sensation we experience when eating them. The compound has the ability to suppress sweet taste, which could also explain some findings. But while some may enjoy the heat that capsaicin produces, it may also come with an unintended consequence. "Capsaicin helps fight pain. Most of the time, you hear about this as a topical cream, but eating chili peppers also has benefits. It may be that when the pain goes away, you're stimulated to consume more sweet foods," said Mary-Jon Ludy, an associate professor of clinical nutrition at Bowling Green State University. In a meta-analysis, involving more than 70 studies , funded by the National Institutes of Health and the McCormick Science Institute, researchers state that the balance of the literature suggests the capsaicin suppresses appetite, though the magnitude of the effects is small. "Purposeful inclusion of these compounds in the diet may aid weight management, albeit modestly," the study stated. (Note that the National Institutes of Health is a federal government agency, and the McCormick Science Institute is an independent research organization that is owned and funded by spice product manufacturer McCormick & Co. Inc. The company said it does not influence the science institute's research priorities.) The meta-analysis included the Danish study that found increased sugar cravings among those who consumed spicy meals. But it also included a study that found adding spice can actually curb sugar cravings . In that study, when people added half a teaspoon of red pepper to their lunch, they had a decreased desire to eat sugary, fatty and salty foods, and ate about 70 fewer calories at their next meal. The effects were seen only among those who didn't regularly consume red pepper. "I think that there's something in the novelty of the stimulus that would allow you to eat less," said Ludy, who authored the study and the meta-analysis. "In terms of the work with red pepper, I think that that's an important piece of the puzzle. If you are adding a spicy meal every couple of weeks, it might be enough to have an effect ... but if you have it every day, the effect goes away, because you get used to it." A little dash will do ya To get started with spice, Ludy recommends sprinkling red pepper flakes into eggs in the morning. You can also use spice when making a rub for meat or when seasoning vegetables, soups, pasta or curry dishes. She also recommends adding red pepper flakes to a meal in anticipation of a tempting dessert. "It may give you that extra piece of security," she said. Though not specific to sweet taste, cinnamon, ginger and saffron are other pungent spices with appetite suppressive effects, according to Ludy. However you choose to use spice, it's wise to start slowly. "Remember that a tiny bit of spice can go a long way!" Ludy said. If the heat is an issue, you can calm your taste buds by pairing hot spices with healthy fats, such as avocados and nuts, according to Ludy. "They help break down the chemical that causes the burn." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. If you're new to spicy peppers, she recommends starting with milder varieties, such as jalapeno or serrano, which cause less burn than cayenne or habanero. "These peppers still contain some capsaicin but not as much. Although I haven't researched it directly, my guess is that there would still be appetite effects (perhaps of a lesser magnitude) ... but if you can't tolerate higher quantities of spice, something is better than nothing, right?"
A contestant on “The Voice Australia” surprised audiences and celebrity judges by popping the question to his boyfriend last night, and he reportedly made television history in the process. Nathan Brake began his audition Sunday with an impressive rendition of the Nick Jonas hit “Jealous” ― a risky move, given that Jonas’ older brother Joe is one of this season’s judges. Before Brake announced which of the four celeb-judged teams he would be on, however, he invited his longtime boyfriend, Mitchell Baines, to the stage. “I just wanted to bring you out here because we’ve had a beautiful six years together,” Brake told Baines, before getting down on one knee and presenting him with a ring. “I’m really nervous. You’ve been a constant support to me these past six years, so I just wanted to ask you, will you marry me?” Baines happily accepted the proposal to thunderous applause from the audience. (The proposal starts about six and a half minutes into the video above.)
Getty Images/Twitter What a year it’s been. From current events ― including political turmoil and high-profile allegations of sexual misconduct in several industries ― to regular life stressors, it’s been a loooong 365 days. If you’re overthinking everything and stressed beyond measure, you’re certainly not alone. But it doesn’t have to be this way. Say goodbye to 2017 ― and some of the negative emotions that came with it ― by adopting a few of these expert- and research-backed habits in the new year. They certainly won’t solve everything, but they’ll help make you feel a little calmer and happier in the moment. Baby steps, right? 1. Take news breaks Research shows that negative news can poorly affect your mental health. Simply put, it’s absolutely essential to take time away from the barrage of bad news stories. Experts recommend this to their patients, and do it themselves to keep their own stress under control. Here are some tips on how to take care of yourself during a chaotic news cycle. 2. Say ‘no’ more often Make 2018 the year you admit to yourself that you can’t do it all ― and embrace it. Saying “yes” to every offer, even the ones you really don’t want to agree to, can have long-term consequences. Therapists say a people-pleasing habit can hurt your mental well-being. Here’s a guide on how to politely turn down invitations without feeling like a complete jerk. 3. Use social media to your advantage Research shows that excessive social media use can be bad for your mental health, and it’s necessary to take a break from your newsfeed. But let’s be real: It’s impossible to expect to stay unplugged from those updates all the time. Reframe the way you view posts on platforms like Facebook and Instagram so you can build a healthier relationship with them. Experts recommend unfollowing accounts that don’t bring you joy, subscribing to more positive content and reminding yourself that what you’re seeing in your feed only shows a small portion of someone’s life. 4. Indulge in a new show Sometimes a mental escape from reality is just what you need to reset your brain. Try watching something funny (studies show laughter really is the best medicine) whenever you’re feeling overwhelmed. It can help curb your stress, Susan Krauss Whitbourne, a professor of psychological and brain sciences at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, previously told HuffPost. 5. Get active There’s no substitute for exercise. Research shows that regular movement can help improve mood and reduce symptoms of depression. Make an effort to incorporate physical activity into your daily life, whether it’s going for a brief walk or trying a new fitness class. Here’s a guide on exercises you can do even if you lack fitness skills. 6. Lend your time to a cause you care about Therapists say more of their patients reported feeling helpless after the 2016 election, and the stress surrounding the political climate has only increased. Experts recommend getting involved in charities or causes you care about in order to offset these negative emotions. By getting active, you’re taking control ― and that can help relieve anxiety. 7. Learn to cook something new Writing can help clear your mind, said Amy Poon, a psychiatrist at Stanford Health Care. “A lot of people find it really helpful for sorting out thoughts, reflection and building more calm,” she told HuffPost. “It can be very cathartic.” And you don’t need to write something every day to reap the benefits, Poon added. Try journaling once a month or once every few weeks if that seems like a more manageable schedule. 11. Adopt a positive mantra Celebrities like Oprah swear by sticking to a mantra, which may give you a little boost when you need it. Pick something that inspires you (for example, “I am worthy”) and attach it to your mirror, your desk or wherever you’ll see it most. It sounds corny, but research shows it works. 12. Make a goal rather than a resolution Smaller goals may be more attainable than an overall, lofty aim. Pick a few things you want to achieve this year, then be real with yourself about the progress, Poon advised. “As with any habit, it can be really hard to maintain over the long term,” she said. “Check in every month and think about your goals and what you are trying to accomplish. Then reflect and re-evaluate if they are realistic.” 13. Turn your bed into a sanctuary By now you know that sleep is vital to happiness and overall functioning. But do you ever think about where you’re sleeping and how you treat that space? It can be easy to turn your bed into a catch-all for laundry or an extension of your office. However, your brain needs to associate it with sleep ― and experts say it might have difficulty doing so if you’re also using it for other activities. Keep your bed a place for sleep and sex, and see if it transforms your Zs. 14. Set boundaries with your loved ones When it comes to family, it can be hard to assert yourself and communicate your needs ― especially when tough topics come up, like politics or your dating life. But boundaries are incredibly important when it comes to self-care. Experts say it’s critical to remember that you have a choice when it comes to these conversations: You don’t necessarily have to engage. Here are some ways to manage those anxiety-provoking conversations while still looking after your own mental health. 15. Tackle your imposter syndrome head-on The idea that you’re “not good enough” can be largely fabricated by your own mind. The phenomenon is known as imposter syndrome, and it mostly pops up at work, like when you’ve been promoted or trusted with a new responsibility. And it can cause a lot of anxiety. Experts recommend getting out of that fraudulent mindset by defining what success and failure actually look like to you. And take a look at these other professional-approved ways to tackle imposter syndrome. 16. Reframe your negative thoughts “What if the country falls apart?” “What if I get laid off from my job?” Worrying about the state of the world or your life is natural, but there’s a point where it becomes unhealthy. Entertaining those automatic negative thoughts can take a toll on your mental health, according to Poon. Figure out what triggers these thoughts to appear, she said, then take the best course of action to help you manage them. Therapy may help give you the tools you need, or try following this guide for when you’re ruminating over anxious thoughts. 17. Learn to recognize toxic personalities in your life Your squad has a profound impact on how you feel. Research shows stress is contagious ― and so is happiness. Check out this list of the different kinds of toxic people you may encounter and tips for how to deal with them. Cut out that negativity ASAP. 18. Put yourself first It’s a fact of life that you can’t please everyone. The one person you can make happy, however? Yourself. Vow to look inward in the coming year if you’re always putting others’ feelings above your own, Poon said. “Find the words to communicate what you need. You can say it in a way where you don’t feel bad for asking, or won’t get upset that the other person may be less happy with you,” she said. “You can’t make other people happy all the time, and it’s important to be OK with that.” Ready to take on 2018?
George Takei is an actor and activist. His Broadway show "Allegiance" screens across cinemas in the United States on the Day of Remembrance, February 19. Follow him on Twitter @GeorgeTakei. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) I was just a child of 5 when soldiers marched up our driveway in a Los Angeles residential neighborhood, bayonets in hand, and pounded on our front door, ordering us out. We were permitted only what we could carry, no bedding, no pets. I remember my mother's tears as she and our father gathered us up, with our precious few belongings in hand. She was determined to bring a sewing machine, fearful that we would need to make or mend clothes where we were headed. She wasn't sure the authorities would allow her to take that Singer machine, so she kept it a secret, even from us. She managed, however, to pack a few treats for us children for the long journey ahead. That was in 1942. Earlier that year, on February 19, 75 years ago yesterday, President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued an executive order, No. 9066, which set the internment into motion. On its face, the order was "neutral," authorizing the military to designate whole swaths of land as military zones, and evacuate any persons from it as they saw fit. But behind that facade lay a much darker purpose: to tear 120,000 innocent Japanese-Americans from their homes along the West Coast and relocate them to 10 prison camps scattered throughout the United States. It didn't matter, back then , that most of us were US citizens and had never even been to Japan. We were presumed guilty, and held without charge for four years, simply because we happened to look like the people who had bombed Pearl Harbor. For that crime, we lost our homes, our livelihoods and our freedoms. Every year, on February 19, we Japanese-Americans honor this day as Remembrance Day, and we renew our pledge to make sure what happened to us never happens again in America. I am always amazed, and saddened, that despite our decadeslong efforts, so many young people today are not even aware that such a tragedy and miscarriage of justice took place here. Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' In 1943, legendary photographer Ansel Adams took portraits of Japanese-Americans interned at Manzanar Relocation Camp in California. "The purpose of my work was to show how these people, suffering under a great injustice, and loss of property, businesses and professions, had overcome the sense of defeat and despair by building for themselves a vital community in an arid (but magnificent) environment," Adams stated in a letter written when he offered the collection of images to the Library of Congress. Pictured: Corporal Jimmy Shohara Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Nurse Aiko Hamaguchi Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Frank Noboo Horosawa, rubber chemist Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Louise Tami Nakamura Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Joyce Yuki Nakamura Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Kishio Matoba Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Michael Yonemetsu, X-ray specialist Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Miss Tetsuko Murakami Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Teruko Kiyomura, bookkeeper Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Toyo Miyatake, photographer Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Mrs. May Ichide, Sunday school teacher Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Private Kato Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Bert K. Miura, clothing designer Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Portraits from 'a great injustice' Miss Michiko Sugawara, stenographer Hide Caption 14 of 14 And I grow increasingly concerned that we are careening toward a future where such a thing would again be possible. A few months into his campaign, Donald Trump refused to outright reject the policies and fears that underlay the internment. Instead, he suggested that it was a tough call, and that he "would have had to be there" in order to know whether it was the wrong one. I cannot help but hear in these words terrible echoes from the past. The internment happened because of three things: fear, prejudice and a failure of political leadership. When the administration targets groups today, whether for exclusion from travel here on the basis of religion and national origin, or for deportation based on their undocumented status, I know from personal experience that these are not done, as they claim, truly in the name of national security. JUST WATCHED Reflecting on life in a WWII prison camp (2016) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Reflecting on life in a WWII prison camp (2016) 02:25 No, instead they are intended to strike fear into communities, to show the muscle and "toughness" of a new president, and to divide the citizenry against itself. These are the acts of a despot, not an elected leader. I have dedicated my life to standing against our nation's impulse toward demagoguery and tyranny by the whipped-up masses. The answer lies not just in education, but in empathy. The false narrative -- that there are those who belong here and those who do not -- is designed precisely to divorce us from the truth that we are all here and in this together. We are an interdependent people, sharing a common bond of humanity. The most pernicious aspect of Trump's policies is thus the denial of those basic bonds and that humanity. I will not stand for it, and no people of good conscience should. The question before us, then, on Remembrance Day is a simple one: Will America remember? The internment is not a "precedent," it is a stark and painful lesson. We will only learn from the past if we know, understand and remember it. For if we fail, we most assuredly are doomed to repeat it.
We Canadians usually have a pretty good sense of humour about how others might see us. People think we're overly polite? *chuckles* Thank you! All we wear is plaid and/or denim on denim? Well, it's just more practical for all that lumberjacking. Our national pastime is shovelling (year-round) while drinking beer kept cool in a snowbank and listening to the good 'ol hockey game on the radio? Naw, we prefer to keep our beverages chilled in icebergs, or in the shadow of a moose. But come after our beloved landscape, and we will END YOU. Nicely. Politely. Sorry. Why don't we talk about this calmly over some soon-to-be legal marijuana? Canadian hearts fluttered Monday as rumours swirled that newlyweds Meghan Markle and Prince Harry might honeymoon in Alberta's Fairmont Jasper Park Lodge. Although the luxury hotel flat-out denied it, TMZ had reported that the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, as they're now known, will be staying in the 6,000 square-foot Outlook Cabin, also called the "Royal Retreat," nestled in the heart of the Canadian Rockies, surrounded by nature and wildlife. What could be more perfect? But then the New York Post's Page Six did the unthinkable and called the Fairmont Jasper Park Lodge the "world's most boring place" in reaction to the news and, um, sorry, so sorry, excuse us, but NO (thank you). Prince Harry and Meghan Markle to honeymoon in the world's most boring place https://t.co/6iXsYvojZY pic.twitter.com/l3NcoiA6up — New York Post (@nypost) May 28, 2018 Their article didn't elaborate on what, exactly, is boring about a private lodge with six bedrooms (with ensuite bathrooms), an enclosed conservatory and veranda, two stone fireplaces, a large terrace, and a full kitchen with a private catering entrance... The "Royal Retreat" at Fairmont Jasper Park Lodge. ... in the middle of magnificent Jasper Park, a UNESCO World Heritage Site ... ... that played host to Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip in 2005, and King George VI and Queen Elizabeth in 1939. Britain's King George VI and his wife Queen Elizabeth stand outside the Jasper Park Lodge, Alberta, May 1939, during their journey through The Rockies. But, they did call us "boring" in their headline, and that was enough to rile Canadians up to do what we do best: respond to the allegations in a mostly friendly, collegial tone. The New York Post called Jasper, Alberta "boring". I'd like to see them try to outrun a herd of elk, or a couple hungry grizzly bears, or an avalanche, and then call it boring. — Kristi Colleen (@KristiColleen) May 29, 2018 I'm glad to know some people find Jasper boring. More room for the rest of us to hike and paddle and ski and bike and picnic and stargaze and swim and camp and horseback ride and climb and skate and sled and fish and sit in hot springs and golf and — Andrea Ross (@_rossandrea) May 28, 2018 Hope to get back to boring as soon as possible! #Jasper pic.twitter.com/BvEiZcbRfV — Glenn Kubish (@Kub64) May 29, 2018 A few columnists even chimed in. The Edmonton Journal's Paula Simons wrote that she'd reached out to the Post to ask whether they were referring to Jasper as the world's most boring place, or Canada in general, but received no response. "Ouch. Way to hit us right in our insecurity complex," she wrote of their headline. "The upshot? Jasper and the lodge scored a day of fantastic free global publicity. (The sneering of the Post notwithstanding, most media outlets seemed charmed by the photos of Jasper looking all unspoiled and glorious.) And we had a splendid day, where we could imagine rubbing shoulders and sharing hiking paths with a duke and his duchess. A day when we could fantasize about being a part of this public love story." Prince Harry and Meghan Markle kiss outside St George's Chapel in Windsor Castle after their wedding on May 19. In true Canadian fashion, Global News' Angela Kokott blogged that she's perfectly fine with Jasper being called boring. "In fact, 'boring' is the perfect place for anyone, including the world's most talked about newlyweds, to find some time away from all the madness," Kokott wrote. "The New York Post has actually done Jasper a huge favour. The wild crowd can have the Big Apple; we can have the wild with all its 'boring' views and animals." Also on HuffPost:
Malaika Arora Khan, whose social-media feed is usually peppered with fitness videos, took off to Los Angeles for a vacation. From exploring the famous Boardwalks at Venice Beach to sipping lemonade in the heart of Hollywood, Khan is having a baller time in La La Land. Here are some pictures from her American vacay that are bound to give you some major #TravelGoals
While headlining Alabama’s Hangout Music Festival on Sunday, Kendrick Lamar brought a white female fan onstage to rap his song “m.A.A.d City” but had to interrupt her after she repeatedly used the N-word featured in the lyrics. The video, it should go without saying, includes some harsh language.
S.E. Cupp is the author of "Losing Our Religion: The Liberal Media's Attack on Christianity," co-author of "Why You're Wrong About the Right" and a columnist at the New York Daily News. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) I moved around a lot as a kid. For me it was always an adventure. It was tough to change schools and continually be the new girl, but I found upside in every new place. Boston winters were a nice change from Arizona summers. My school in Michigan was the best I ever attended. My ballet classes in Maryland opened a whole new world of training. And with my parents as the supportive constant, no move was ever too challenging. Until I hit 13. We moved from Maryland to Massachusetts and I came into a new school in the middle of the year. I'd always made friends fairly easily before. But this was different. The girls had long-formed cliques. The boys were in the middle of puberty and couldn't decide if they wanted to pull your hair or ask you out. High school was on the horizon and no one was going to let this new interloper upset the social dynamic that had been in the works for years. It was the worst four months I'd ever endured. The pressure to fit in and be popular is as old as Methuselah. (Literally -- it was 969-year-old Methuselah who tried to persuade his people to listen to Noah, his grandson, about the coming flood. It was peer pressure of Biblical proportion.) The pressure to fit in was why I made my mother buy the knockoff shoes that looked like the ones everyone else was wearing (but that we could afford). It's why I tried to befriend the popular girls who then turned on me in the cafeteria and threatened to beat me up after school. It's why I didn't tell on the boy who threw my science project out the window, in hopes that he'd spare my next effort. As Marion Underwood and Robert Faris' excellent CNN piece makes clear, the difference now, though, is that the challenge of fitting in today has media amplification. "Even before the dawn of social media," they write, "adolescents cared deeply about fitting in and were hurt when they felt excluded from face-to-face interactions or by seeing the popular kids hang around together. What is different now is that social media affords frequent opportunities for all teens to see pictures of parties they were not invited to and friends having fun without them, images they would be spared if social media did not exist." So true. I can't imagine my 13-year-old self, naïve, insecure, earnest and easily-wounded, being equipped to handle today's unwieldy world of social media, where my shoes would have been blasted on Instagram, and my cafeteria incident caught on video and posted to Facebook and my efforts to fit in ridiculed on Snapchat. But while social media may reach more people (my incidents never had the potential to "go viral") were kids like me any less traumatized by bullies because they had a smaller platform? Were the temptations to fit in any less great? Was being an outsider really any easier? JUST WATCHED Teens' social secrets go deeper than parents think Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Teens' social secrets go deeper than parents think 02:10 Now that I'm a parent of a 10-month-old son, I'm clinging desperately to the prospect that by the time my little one is an adolescent, something will have changed for the better somehow. But I think that being 13 is always going to be tougher for some kids than others. The choice we have as parents -- especially as parents were either bullies or bullied -- is what kind of kids do we want to raise? I could be honest and tell you I've had long conversations with my husband about trying to raise a "socially-adept" child, who fits in well, who makes friends, who excels in certain areas so that he isn't the target of bullying. But we've had longer conversations about trying to raise a child who is happy, comfortable, confident and secure, so he knows he is loved and accepted for who he is, regardless of anyone he meets who disagrees. Looking back on my difficult year, I'm not sure I'd wish I could have been popular. I do wish I'd been a little more secure. I'm also keenly aware that bullying has become frighteningly easy today. It's anonymous and instantaneous, with tremendous reach. Raising a kid who won't be a bully is far more important to me than raising a kid who will be popular. I think I'm pretty tough. Mine wouldn't be the best job -- regularly dodging insults not only from social media trolls but also from colleagues with legitimate jobs (and, inexplicably, spouses who love them!) -- if I had thin skin. There's name calling, of course. There are death threats, sure. But then there's stuff you don't prepare for, like that time a package arrived with bloody chicken parts inside. Or that time a pornographer depicted me in one of his magazines performing a sex act. Or that time Keith Olbermann suggested I should have been aborted. For real. When we talk about bullying, it's hard to tell young people that all that much changes when you hit adulthood. I think constantly about raising our son in a culture of cyberbullying, cyberstalking, online harassment and general terribleness (and that's among the adults!). Of course, we're tougher as adults than kids are, so we can handle this with more composure and aplomb. The high-minded mom advice to "just ignore them" rarely solved any problem at 13, but now it does in fact often do the trick. As difficult as it was at the time, I know that my own adolescence prepared me for an adulthood where the bullying and bad behavior continues. But it's also informing how I plan to raise a child in an era of bullying. Being 13 today seems totally overwhelming. But it was pretty overwhelming then, too. If I could tell my 13-year-old self one thing then (and what I will tell my future 13-year-old son) it wouldn't necessarily be that it gets better -- adulthood is hard and people are still jerks. It's that you will get better. Better at coping. Better at not caring. Better at negotiating these challenges. Better at loving yourself. Put most simply, better at being you.
I’m 27 years old, and like a lot of women, I was put on birth control pills shortly after starting my period. If you had asked me at any point in the past, I would have told you I had never experienced an adverse side effect from my birth control. On the contrary, I loved and appreciated it for giving me reproductive autonomy while improving my acne-prone skin and taking the guesswork out of dealing with Aunt Flo. My decision to quit the pill five months ago was about 65 percent a result of forgetting to go to the pharmacy and 35 percent curiosity to see if my body was capable of remembering how to menstruate on its own. As it turns out, after spending half my life on birth control, going off it has been nothing short of a revelation ― one that has made me question why I spent half my life trying to convince myself that the mild mental and physical symptoms I experienced over the years were “natural,” even when they happened to be some of the most common side effects attributed to the pill. The first thing I experienced after stopping the pill ― in my case, the combined version ― was what I would describe as a total sexual awakening. While I’ve never considered myself asexual by any means, my libido was mostly limited to the surge of excitement one might experience during courtship or after many shots of tequila. But within weeks, that changed drastically: Almost like cranking up an ancient generator stored away in the basement, my lady parts began to hum and pulsate with a kind of energy I had never felt. Practically overnight, my lubrication levels went from zero to “ripe papaya” – and for someone who has spent their life suffering through relatively uncomfortable, sometimes painful, under-lubricated sex, this was huge. The change was so noticeable that I wondered if there might be something wrong with me, until I began to read the abundant accounts of other women whose sex drives were temporarily extinguished by birth control. Around the same time, another strange thing happened. I realized I felt happy. I’m happy right now. Even if nothing great happens, I’m quite sure I’ll be happy tomorrow. Quitting birth control was as invigorating for my mental health as that wonderful feeling of sun and breeze on your bare legs when you wear shorts for the first time after a long winter. I was diagnosed with depression shortly after getting put on birth control – something that doesn’t seem so strange, considering that a recent, massive study concluded that women taking the combined oral contraceptive pill are 23 percent more likely to be diagnosed with depression. Other forms of hormonal birth control present an even greater risk. Though I traded in antidepressants for my own coping mechanisms years ago, I’ve spent essentially my whole adult life battling frequent waves of depression, mood swings, anxiety, fatigue, and a persistent mental fog. But I can’t remember a time I’ve ever felt as consistently confident, motivated, and happy as during these past months without the pill. As if truly enjoying sex and feeling good about life for the first time weren’t enough, I’ve also lost weight since going off the pill. It isn’t anything significant – I’ve never been overweight, but, like most women, I’ve always been overly self-conscious about the places where my body jiggles and dimples. Without any changes to what I eat or how I exercise, I suddenly have abs, and lean muscle mass now contours across my body in areas previously dominated by flab. The only real negative outcome I’ve had since going off birth control is a minor resurgence of acne and oily skin. While this has been frustrating, I’m honestly more than happy to deal with a few pimples if it means that I’m emotionally stable, energetic, confident, clearheaded, and sexually engaged. I fully recognize that going off birth control isn’t an option for many women, and many of those who do leave it behind probably won’t enjoy the same benefits that I have (sorry). And don’t get it twisted ― even though my experience quitting birth control was a positive one, I totally refuse to side with anyone who believes that access to birth control, or any other women’s reproductive health procedure or treatment, should be limited in any way, so please don’t interpret this as such. (While we’re at it, if you have any questions or concerns about your birth control, please consult your doctor.)
Aam Aadmi Party state convener Prithvi Reddy poses for a photograph in Bengaluru, Karnataka on May 3, 2018. BENGALURU, Karnataka -- Prithvi Reddy is a man constantly on the move. Every morning, the 48-year-old wakes up at the crack of dawn to go meet morning walkers at 6.30 am and urge them to vote for him. The convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Karnataka is taking on one of state's most powerful politicians — Congress' K.J. George — by contesting from the Sarvagnanagar constituency in northeast Bengaluru in the upcoming state polls. George hasn't lost an election here in a decade and was elected from the area twice earlier when it was called Bharathinagar constituency. How does Reddy expect to defeat such a strong contender? "I'm fighting to win," he told HuffPost India during a hurried interview in between his various campaign meetings. "I know it's an uphill task," he added in the same breath. That's putting it mildly. Sarvagnanagar is one of the 225 constituencies in Karnataka and over a dozen candidates, including the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) M.N. Reddy and Janata Dal (Secular)'s Anwar Sharieff, are contesting in the area. It has a history of recording one of the worst voter turnouts in the state — just over half of the 2.8 lakh electors bothered to vote in the last state election as opposed to the state average of 71.83 per cent. The constituency comprises of mostly minorities — Muslims and Christians make up the majority of voters and hundreds of mosques and churches dot the area. Voters here have continued to elect a Congress representative for years. It is also part of Bangalore Central, one of the 28 Lok Sabha constituencies in Karnataka, represented by BJP MP P.C. Mohan. The electoral fight has been traditionally between Congress and BJP, with the former firmly holding the upper hand in state elections. Minister of Development and Planning KJ George on March 23, 2018 in Bengaluru, India. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube The constituency's incumbent MLA, 71-year-old George, is the minister for Bengaluru development and town planning under the present Congress government. He has been accused of corruption, land-grabbing, and abetment to suicide of a senior police officer. Yet, he was recently rated the top incumbent MLA in Bengaluru and won the previous election with a comfortable margin of over 20,000 votes. His closest rival at the time, the BJP's Padmanabhan Reddy, is not contesting in the constituency this time. Instead, BJP has given the ticket to M.N. Reddy, chairman of the Ayodhya Ram Temple Complex, who made news last month by transporting a 62-feet Hanuman statue to a disputed land, and accusing George of being "anti-Hindu" when he opposed it. It appears to be a pretty straightforward match between two parties, with George as the clear frontrunner. But not if Prithvi Reddy has anything to do with it. "It is a very polarised constituency and we are selling a product not offered before." His decision to take on such a strong opponent was fueled by his belief that George "represented everything that is wrong with politics today," he said. He was referring to the various allegations of crony capitalism against George, who is a multi-millionaire businessman with a penthouse apartment in a tony Bengaluru neighbourhood. Reddy, meanwhile, is a mechanical engineer who worked overseas for a few years before returning to Bengaluru to run his family business. This is his first time contesting in an election. "The impact of defeating one K.J. George sends out a very strong signal," said Reddy. "It is a very polarised constituency and we are selling a product not offered before." In the last election, almost half the votes in the constituency went to Congress, while BJP won a third of the votes. The BJP candidate this year has a clear Hindutva appeal and George enjoys a huge following among Christians in the area. Muslims afraid of the BJP's Hindu-first campaign have traditionally voted for Congress. Reddy hopes that he would be able to win over some of both the Congress and BJP voters by offering a non-ideological alternative. His door-to-door outreach programs, cycle rides down Sarvagnanagar neighbourhoods, and campaign rallies where middle-class supporters flank his sides are all efforts towards targeting every voter in the area. Prithvi Reddy with AAP volunteers during a campaign rally in HBR layout in Bengaluru, Karnataka, on May 3, 2018. The AAP strategy since its formation in 2012 has been to appeal to a large disaffected middle class, promising a non-ideological corruption-free government. In New Delhi, where the party successfully formed government twice, it has focused on healthcare and education. Reddy's approach in Karnataka, where AAP has fielded 29 candidates (with 11 just in Bengaluru), is similar. In pamphlets distributed by him and his team in door-to-door visits across the Sarvagnanagar constituency, photos provided a visual comparison of schools and hospitals offered by Karnataka and Delhi governments. Voters could save thousands of rupees each year at schools and hospitals if they gave "honest politics" a chance, the pamphlets claimed. In speeches and rallies leading up to the election, he repeatedly stressed on transparency and accountability in governance, hoping to ride on an anti-corruption wave. Despite being a first-time candidate, he has a clear goal for the constituency and a blueprint on how to achieve it. In a detailed manifesto, Reddy has promised government schools in every ward, mohalla clinics for primary healthcare, and improvements in traffic congestion, water supply, and garbage disposal. Plans for solving unique problems of each area in the constituency are described in his manifesto. Reddy has been endorsed by Justice Santosh Hegde, formerly of the Karnataka Lokayukta; Admiral Ramdas, a Param Vishist Seva and Vir Chakra awardee; freedom fighter HS Doreswamy; and former Supreme Court chief justice M.N. Venkatachaliah. Prithvi Reddy during a door-to-door campaign to meet voters at Sarvagnanagar constituency. Meanwhile, dozens of AAP volunteers from Maharashtra, Goa, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Odisha and New Delhi have travelled to Karnataka, helping Reddy and his 28 other colleagues campaign in the constituencies they are contesting. One such volunteer is 59-year-old Rosie D'Souza, a housewife from Mumbai who is helping Reddy campaign in Bengaluru. D'Souza, who was a Congress voter all her life, changed her allegiance after AAP was formed. "I liked what I saw and I just joined in support," she said, distributing party pamphlets in HBR Layout, where Reddy was on a padyatra (campaign on foot) on Thursday. Vicky, 35, had come from a little further away. The freelance wedding photographer lives with his wife in Texas in the United States of America, but travelled to Bengaluru to support Reddy and the AAP, he told HuffPost India. "I contacted Prithvi on Facebook and decided to do this for the sake of my country," he said, adding that he was originally from Hyderabad. The photographer arrived last month and planned to stay until the election results were announced on May 15. He also helped manage social media pages for AAP, he said. Mohammad Javeed has volunteered his auto for the AAP Karnataka campaign. Meanwhile, others like auto driver Mohammad Javeed had spontaneously joined in support. AAP posters were plastered on his auto, and a loudspeaker mounted on top. "Even this bottle of water is bought by me," he said, pointing at a plastic bottle near his feet. "Other parties offer you biryani and money but I am helping them because they are a good party and the next generation should not suffer like we have." AAP's efforts to expand out of Delhi have had little success so far: the party won 20 seats in Punjab in the 2016 state elections, but drew a blank in both Goa and Gujarat last year. AAP gave up its plans to contest in Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan, but announced an ambitious campaign in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh, where polls are expected to take place in November this year. So is the party taking a leaf out of its successful campaign in New Delhi for the Karnataka polls? Yes and no, said Reddy. "Karnataka is very big (compared to Delhi)," he told HuffPost India. "We are being realistic and hoping to get a few people elected." AAP volunteers distribute pamphlets in Bengaluru. For Reddy, this means wasting no opportunity to meet voters for hours each day, or strategising with party colleagues. Whether this means dashing off to various neighbourhoods to deliver pamphlets, meeting with local Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) to listen to their concerns, sitting in panels with civil society members and social activists or simply cycling around introducing himself to voters — he is leaving no stone unturned. His days, which typically begin with his 6.30 am visits to parks, end with RWA meetings and discussions at night at private homes of residents. At a resident-organised debate with other candidates of the constituency on Saturday, Reddy was well-spoken and thoughtful in his responses. His sharp and concise answers to the residents' questions exhibited a smart understanding of the constituency, winning him cheers from the assembled crowd. His nemesis, George, meanwhile skipped the debate altogether, citing other commitments. However, Reddy knows this does not win an election. "Many people are concerned that AAP won't form a government here so their vote will be a waste," he said. "To them, we are trying to say vote for local-level change." Candidates contesting at the Sarvagnanagar constituency participate in a debate organised by residents on May 5, 2018. If AAP manages to win any seats in Karnataka, it would help the party exhibit how things can improve, said the party's campaign manager in Karnataka, Basavanth, a 38-year-old who works as a chief design officer with IT companies. He has taken all his accumulated leave — 35 days — to help with the party campaign. "Once we have some MLAs here, people will see how quick access models will work well," he said. "We can create model constituencies." Many others like Basavanth have taken time off their daily lives to lend support to the party. Sangeeth Samuel, for instance, works as a director for a Bengaluru-based co-working space and has volunteered for the AAP campaign. "I'm just a tired citizen," he said. On the campaign trail, Reddy is being called 'Bangalore's Kejriwal'. How does he feel about the moniker? He takes it as a compliment, he said, but it's an unfair comparison. "I think I'm Prithvi Reddy," he said, just before rushing off to another meeting.
Get some sunlight first thing in the morning. It triggers your brain to stay awake and alert early in the day and helps you ease into sleep a little earlier at night. Get some sunlight first thing in the morning. It triggers your brain to stay awake and alert early in the day and helps you ease into sleep a little earlier at night. Yoga can help you wind down at the end of the day and calm your mind, which also slows your breathing and heart rate for better sleep. Yoga can help you wind down at the end of the day and calm your mind, which also slows your breathing and heart rate for better sleep. Even the smallest amount of light can disrupt your sleep patterns. Keep your bedroom as dark as possible for the best night's sleep. Even the smallest amount of light can disrupt your sleep patterns. Keep your bedroom as dark as possible for the best night's sleep. Did you know that having warm feet can help you sleep? Pull on a pair of socks before bed to speed up how quickly you'll fall asleep. Did you know that having warm feet can help you sleep? Pull on a pair of socks before bed to speed up how quickly you'll fall asleep. Setting an alarm might be the only thing that helps you get up in the morning, but try setting one at night to remind you when it's time to go to bed. Click through our gallery for other tips for better sleep. Setting an alarm might be the only thing that helps you get up in the morning, but try setting one at night to remind you when it's time to go to bed. Click through our gallery for other tips for better sleep. (CNN) Your pets may be pestering you to get up and feed them, and your spouse may want you to get started on that honey-do list, but tell them you're sleeping in this weekend. Science says it may help you live longer, especially if you don't get enough rest during the week. Scientists have long known about the connection between how much you sleep and how long you live. Lack of sleep can have dire consequences for your health. It can give you heart problems or hurt your waistline , and it can leave you anxious and depressed . But channeling your inner cat and sleeping too much can be just as bad for your health , studies have found. However, research has often overlooked what happens on your days off, said sleep researcher Torbjörn Åkerstedt , co-author of a study published in the Journal of Sleep Research He was "quite surprised" by what researchers found when they focused on that block of time. "Apparently, sleeping in on the weekends can be a real help," said Åkerstedt, a professor and director of the Stress Research Institute at Stockholm University. The study looked at 43,880 people in Sweden, asking them about their sleep habits and following up 13 years later. It found that people who regularly slept about five hours or less a night, including on weekends, saw a higher mortality rate -- the likelihood of death during the study period -- compared with those who regularly got seven hours. People who slept too much, regularly conking out for eight hours or longer a night, also had a worse mortality rate. But when the short sleepers slept in on the weekends, their mortality rate did not differ from that of the consistent seven-hour-a-night sleepers. That was true only for those under 65; the mortality difference disappeared for people who were older. Åkerstedt notes that seven hours is not a hard and fast rule; some people might need more and others less. "If you can function on what you get, you are likely getting the right amount of sleep." The study has its limitations, as participants were asked to recall their sleep patterns rather than being observed sleeping, but Åkerstedt has an idea about what might be driving this difference in mortality. It's not so much about being able to store up sleep, but he thinks short sleepers who are changing their habits on the weekends are making up for some of what they lost during the week. Sleep expert Michael Grandner explains it this way: Most people who are considered "short sleepers" are probably just shy of getting seven hours. They might sleep six hours or slightly less. They are the ones who can compensate with longer rest on the weekends, because there is not as much of a deficit. Sleep is something you need to replenish regularly if you don't want to hurt your health. "It's a fundamental part of our biology, like breathing. It's a requirement," said Grandner, director of the Sleep and Health Research Program and an assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry in the University of Arizona College of Medicine - Tucson. He was not involved in the new study. "What happens is, if you are well-rested, your sleep drive will be low in the morning, and it builds and builds over the day, when at night you need to go to bed to relieve that pressure for sleep. If you don't get enough sleep, you wake up with that sleep pressure and start the day with a higher need for it. "It's like with your diet. If you eat OK during the week and you splurge a little on the weekend, you probably aren't hurting your health, but if you eat crap all week, no amount of Brussels sprouts or kale that you eat on the weekends can make up for that," he said. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Åkerstedt has done a lot of sleep studies over the years, but he said this one has captured a lot of attention. He thinks a lot of people may relate to sleeping less during the week and, at the very least, may want to have an excuse for sleeping in on our days off. "I think people like the idea that you can compensate for lost sleep," Åkerstedt said. "Perhaps it's giving them hope that this habit is in some way good for them."
When Meghan Markle and Prince Harry announced their engagement in November 2017, all eyes were on the couple’s stunning engagement photos and, of course, Markle’s gorgeous, three-stone diamond ring. After the pair weds on May 19, Markle will likely wear a wedding band made of Welsh gold, as is tradition; the Duchess of Cambridge wears one as well. But it’s unclear if Prince Harry will wear a wedding ring. That’s because in Britain, it’s not customary for male members of the aristocracy and the upper class to wear a wedding ring. Though Prince Charles wears one, Prince Philip and Prince William do not wear wedding bands. “Before [Prince William’s] 2011 wedding, the palace released a statement that due to his personal preference of not wearing jewelry, he would not wear a wedding ring,” Anne Chertoff, wedding trends expert at WeddingWire, told HuffPost. “Prince Philip has been married to the queen for 70 years and never wore a wedding ring,” Chertoff said, adding that not wearing a ring “is not a sign of marital troubles, either.” According to The New York Times, it’s a relatively new phenomenon for men in England ― royal or otherwise ― to wear wedding rings at all. Historically, most men in the U.K. didn’t begin wearing rings until World War II, Chertoff said.
To put it bluntly, losing someone you love is really, really shitty. Except you don't really 'lose' them. It's not like you don't know where they went and you're hoping one day they'll pop up between the couch cushions. The fact is, people die, and sometimes, dying can take a long time. It's heart-breaking, it's hard, and -- sometimes -- it's grossly unfair. I can only speak from my own experiences here, but my Dad dying from cancer was akin to someone dying from a thousand paper cuts. It happened bit by bit, over years and years. First came the diagnosis -- upsetting, of course -- but prostate cancer was a "good" cancer, so thank God for that. Then came the news it wasn't the normal kind of prostate cancer, so things would be more difficult. Then came the treatments, unrelenting in their aggression, and then came the news it wasn't going away. It was terminal -- but we still had three to five years. But that turned out not to be the case either, and so it goes. As I said, it's really, really shitty. And to be honest, no one really gets it unless they've been through it themselves, which is where my old flatmate Beth comes in. Having lost her mum to cancer, Beth knew exactly what I was going through, and had a list of advice to boot. Not necessarily for me, but for everyone else. Because here's the thing: when someone you love is dying, even if you don't want to talk about it, you have to. People will straight up ask. Questions like, "how is your Dad these days?" will fly thick and fast and it will your job to inform them that, no, chemo is no longer an option, or to reassure them with, yes, he sure is hanging in there. Of course, people only want to help. They care. They don't know it's the seventh time you've had that conversation that day. And it's nice to be asked. You don't want not to be asked, as though it's taboo or he's dead already. See how muddy the waters are already? Dealing with this situation can be awkward, and difficult, and, to be frank, sometimes people can really screw it up. So here are some tips, courtesy of Beth and me, about what to do if you have a friend whose loved one is dying. Quit it with the sad eyes Want to know what sad eyes are? They look like this. Seriously, stop it. Wipe those big, trembling sympathy balls off your face right now. No one wants to see them. It's one thing to actually be sympathetic and concerned, it's another to try and force those feelings to beam out of your face. If you want to ask after someone, ask them in your normal voice, with your normal face, and be prepared for whatever the answer might be. Ask, but don't probe Your friend will let you know when and if they feel like getting into the nitty gritty details, so follow their lead. By all means, ask them about the situation when you see them -- they'll be expecting it, anyway -- but if you're getting the signal they don't want to talk about it, then they don't want to talk about it. Trust me, if you're a close friend, the time will come when they will unload. If you're not a close friend, you'll get what they want to tell you, and that's it. Avoid clichés "He'll pull through." "He's a fighter." "If anyone can beat it, it's him." Though meaning well, these expressions are actually just annoying, particularly if it's a terminal disease. Instead, why not try "So what does that mean?" or even a simple "I'm so sorry. It sounds really rough. Is there anything I can do?" It's okay to cry, but it's not about you When I told my best friend that Dad had a matter of months to live, she burst into tears. She then spent the next 10 minutes apologising for crying, because she should be comforting me and not the other way around. It is okay to cry. My best friend loved my Dad. Of course she was upset. Her crying just showed me how much she cared. However, in a different situation, I bumped into an old school friend, someone who I'm no longer really in touch with, who positively wailed at the news. She rattled off every single thing she could think about Dad and how tragic it was and oh god WHYY while everyone in the chemist turned and stared. That was weird. Try not to do that. Herbal remedies are not a cure I think the last time I truly saw red was when someone I barely knew suggested cancer was totally curable if you just did a bit of research online, and that my Dad should try a coffee enema. Gee, if only he had bothered to Google. Trust me -- no one wants to hear about how some chick in Byron cured cancer by thinking only good thoughts. If that stuff worked, no one in their right mind would line up for the invasive treatments currently available. Do you really think anyone does chemo for funsies? Finally, if the worst happens... If the person in question passes away, here are some things you should do. Go to the funeral. If appropriate, offer to help at the wake. Be available if your friend needs you, even if that means just getting really drunk with them and having a good cry. Send flowers IN A VASE. This is very important. Your friend will be most likely inundated with flower deliveries, and it's unlikely they will own enough vases to deal with them all. Be patient. Even though everyone has known this was coming for some time, it's still a shock when it eventually happens, and they'll be needing your support for some time to come. I think at the end of the day, the most important thing is to still be yourself and to remain true to the relationship you have. Your friend doesn't want a censored, watered-down, super sympathetic version of you. They just want you. And they probably want you to say something like: "Well this is really shit. Can I get you a giant glass of wine?"
For a busy physiologist at the University of Pennsylvania's Perelman School of Medicine, that may be expected, but the reason behind the calls wasn't exactly run-of-the-mill. The people on the other end of the line were athletes in search of a particular kind of fix: They wanted him to dope them -- via their genes. In the late 1990s, Sweeney made headlines because of his research on "Schwarzenegger mice," which were up to 30% stronger than their average counterparts. Sweeney had been able to isolate the gene responsible for activating a protein -- IGF-1 -- that controls muscle growth and repair. The main focus of his experiments was on how to limit the deterioration of muscles with age, but the results also appealed to athletes in search of a performance boost. Word got out, however, that he was not interested. Ahead of this year's Commonwealth Games, which started April 4, Sweeney's was not such a hot number for athletes in search of an unfair advantage -- possibly because he is now an adviser for the World Anti-Doping Agency. "At the beginning, when we first started publishing on this, we did get contacted by high-level athletes," said Sweeney, who's also director of the University of Florida's Myology Institute. "These days, it's mostly body builders and people desperate to increase their performance or abilities." Back then, gene therapy -- defined as the technique of using and manipulating genes in order to treat or prevent diseases -- wasn't as established as it is today and wasn't recognised as enough of a threat to be listed as a banned practice in sport. But it soon became known that gene therapies could one day be used for much more than disease. Responding promptly to the possibility, in 2002, the anti-doping agency established "gene and cell-doping panels" of expert scientists to discuss how best to head off the problem. In 2003, the organization banned "gene doping," which it defined as the "nontherapeutic use of cells, genes, genetic elements, or modulation of gene expression, having the capacity to enhance performance." This new frontier of doping presented a simple and dark idea: What if there was a way for dopers to never be caught? Now, almost 20 years later, the technology is has finally been used to treat patients with rare diseases -- such as severe combined immunodeficiency, chronic granulomatous disorder, hemophilia, blindness, cancer and neurodegenerative diseases -- by transferring missing genes into skeletal muscles, Sweeney said. "So because of that, it is now at a point where potentially it could be used by athletes. "It could be done today in athletes if some company and government would put the resources (in) to make it happen," he said. Getting inside your genes In the case of the "Schwarzenegger mice," Sweeney used the classic method of gene therapy, in which he modified the animals' DNA using a virus to deliver and insert the required gene that would make the mice stronger. Genes are delivered into an organism using a "vector," the most common being viruses, like that used by Sweeney, which have been modified to be safe and no longer cause disease. The vectors carry the desired gene into targeted cells and, there, unload the genetic material, which in turn instructs the organism to produce the protein the gene encodes. One example of a protein well-known to athletes is erythropoietin, commonly known as EPO, which regulates the production of red blood cells in the body, increasing hemoglobin and oxygen delivery to tissues. With the injection of external EPO, elite athletes -- often cyclists -- have been enhancing performance for years, but authorities have caught on. Anti-doping controls can now detect external EPO efficiently through blood and urine tests. A doping urine test kit is seen on February 25, 2015 in Chatenay, France. If extra EPO is being produced organically by a cell's machinery, however, it is almost impossible to detect as a banned substance. But the technology is not quite at that level yet. "Making the viruses that are involved in doing the gene transfer is still difficult," Sweeney said, highlighting that the science is still complicated and not something athletes could readily do at home. Another way to dope an athlete's genes is through CRISPR, or CRISPR-Cas9, a technique that allows geneticists to edit specific parts of a person's genome by removing or altering sections of DNA -- also known as gene editing. The technique is rapidly developing, leading to a World Anti-Doping Agency announcement in October that it was expanding its "gene-doping" ban to "gene editing agents designed to alter genome sequences and/or the transcriptional or epigenetic regulation of gene expression." The ban went into effect in January. "There's a couple of ways you can use CRISPR-Cas9," Sweeney said. "One is to take cells from a person, modify those cells and put them back into the person, and that is probably the safest way to use it. "The other way to use it, which is to modify your existent DNA in the body, is potentially very unsafe." False kit of genetics editing with Crispr Cas-9 technology. Sweeney pointed out that scientists do not know what unintended consequences could come from changing a specific gene in an individual, meaning the technology is not even ready for trials in patients with lethal diseases. In the case of gene-doping through gene therapies, using vectors for delivery, it's relatively easy to look for an extra copy of a gene and confirm that an athlete has been doped when you have access to a biological sample, such as blood, said Olivier Rabin, senior executive director of sciences and international partnerships at the anti-doping agency. In particular, Rabin said, the agency looks at white-blood cells and has developed a methodology that can be applied to search for different genes. Further detail was not provided, as it is kept confidential in order to catch athletes, he added. "Gene editing is a little more complex than gene therapy," Rabin added. The anti-doping agency is working on strategies to reveal the possibility of people editing their genes for performance enhancement, he said. Rabin highlighted that most of the agency's efforts focus on white blood cells as "pretty good markers of gene manipulation" because some evidence of manipulation will usually end up in the blood. Asked what it is doing to monitor and test athletes for gene doping, the International Olympic Committee did not comment directly but said, "We have nothing to add to the section on gene doping in WADA's prohibited list." The question now is whether the first few cases have, in fact, happened without our knowledge. Modern occurrence "I never heard anything about it except for one time, and it was around five years ago," said Sebastian Weber, coach of four-time Union Cycliste Internationale world champion (time trialling) Tony Martin. "There was some buzz around a substance called AICAR," or 5-Aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide. AICAR is a performance-enhancing drug that the French Anti-Doping Agency suspected was used in the 2009 Tour de France; it stimulates mitochondria, the part in the muscles responsible for aerobic energy production. In cycling, for gene doping to be effective, techniques should target both EPO levels and red blood cell production to have a higher oxygen delivery to the muscles, Weber says -- but they would also need to increase the mass and number of mitochondria in order to actually produce energy from that oxygen. "Just because you have more oxygen, it doesn't necessary mean you also have the capacity to produce energy out of it," Weber said. As AICAR was a drug, it wasn't gene doping, but it led people to wonder about what was next, he says, after this "first step" toward stimulating the body's mitochondria. "That was the only time I heard people talking about the possibility of gene-doping." Tailoring to your genes There are other ways genetics -- and a deep knowledge of them -- could help athletes improve their performance, by understanding their physiology. For example, project GENESIS -- focused on how applied genomics in elite sports can improve performance -- and its offshoot, the RugbyGene Project, are trying to identify which genetic characteristics help athletes succeed. "We recognize it is not only genetic," said Dr. Alun Williams, an exercise geneticist at Manchester Metropolitan University in the UK who works on both projects. "Training, diet and other lifestyle habits are massive factors. But along with that, the evidence is that it's impossible to have success in sports without some genetic [factors] in your favor." The researchers of these projects are hoping to identify which genes help -- or hinder -- athletes in their specific disciplines, to develop their skills in a more tailored way. For example, if an athlete has shown to have a higher genetic vulnerability to tendon injuries, scientists and coaches could reduce certain aspects of their training load over the course of the season, give longer rest periods, reduce the number of matches played in a season, or provide specific exercises and pre-habilitation workouts. But Williams points out that the field is still at an early stage. "This picture where certain genes (or even two or three genes) are related to a particular characteristic, like the tendon injury, is still a small bit of a bigger picture," he said. "So it's very important that this information that is available is put into context." A different point of view Some experts argue that we're looking at it all wrong and that athletes will always use the most modern technology to seek out an advantage -- illegal or not. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "Modern sports have been principally valued on the basis of record-breaking and being able to witness extraordinary performances," said bioethicist Andy Miah, the University of Salford Chair in Science Communication and Future Media and author of "Genetically Modified Athletes: Biomedical Ethics, Gene Doping and Sport." "Even if it's not a world record, it's about trying to see something special in what humans can do, and often, that is about transcending boundaries." We give athletes all sort of technology to do that, added Miah, who readily claims to "disagree with anti-doping." Instead of the current scenario, in which anti-doping keeps trying to catch up with doping, Miah suggests a safer form of performance enhancement. "If we can have a system where enhancement was actually medically supervised, then I think that is a much more safe and healthy.
(CNN) The US has announced the tit-for-tat expulsion of two Venezuelan diplomats in a row sparked by Washington's criticism of President Nicolas Maduro's reelection. The two Venezuelan diplomats were declared "personae non grata" and directed to leave the US within 48 hours, according to a statement from State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert. The expulsion was ordered in response to the Maduro regime's decision to expel two US diplomats earlier this week, the statement added. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro casts his vote during the presidential elections in Caracas on May 20, 2018. Maduro made the announcement at his confirmation ceremony in Caracas, accusing the men of interfering in the election and giving them 48 hours to leave Venezuela. Read More
(CNN) The abrupt, precipitous demise of Roseanne Barr's TV show marked merely the latest chapter in a career distinguished by soaring highs -- including "Roseanne's" most recent ratings breakthrough -- and a near-equal measure of tumult. Barr burst onto the scene as a stand-up comic in the 1980s, landing a coveted spot on "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" in 1985. But her profile entered a new stratosphere in 1988, when the comic's "domestic goddess" routine served as the cornerstone of "Roseanne," an ABC sitcom that became an almost instant sensation. The late Brandon Stoddard, who ordered the show during his stint running ABC, once said that Barr "captured something that was going on in the country, which was women's confusion and attendant anger about their role in families and children and the household." At its peak, the program -- premiering at a point when there was far less competition, and the Fox network was still in its infancy -- averaged more than 35 million viewers, consistently ranking among the top five primetime shows through its first six seasons. Barr was no stranger to controversy , including her tone-deaf rendition of the Star-Spangled Banner at a San Diego Padres game ("Roseanne" producer Tom Werner was among the team's owners), which then-president George H.W. Bush called "disgraceful." Read More
(CNN) A jury in Las Vegas found magician David Copperfield negligent but not financially liable for a British tourist's injuries during one of his vanishing acts in 2013. Gavin Cox is 100% liable for his own injuries, a jury found late Tuesday night, according to the Clark County District Court documents. The tourist took part in the magician's signature disappearing trick, and said he suffered brain injuries when he fell during the performance. The jury ruled the five parties named in the lawsuit -- including Copperfield -- were all 0% responsible for the injuries. Cox was "100% " responsible for his injuries, it said. The trick Read More
Please enable Javascript to watch this video SAN DIEGO – After a statue of a life-sized mermaid perched on a giant rock popped up in Ocean Beach, residents are wondering how it got there and why. Locals say the rock along the coast is no stranger to guerilla art installations. “Once there was a Christmas tree, once there was a peace sign, who knows what’s up there,” one resident told FOX 5. According to several residents who claim to have knowledge of the statue, the mermaid was assisted to the top of the rock using a rope ladder draped over the boulder. The mermaid was then hoisted up and her hands were drilled into the rock. So far, lifeguards have not said what they’re going to do next, but residents don’t seem too worried. “It’s a cool aesthetic and I think we’ve needed something like that since the peace sign was taken down years ago. I think it’s cool to have something here to bring that magic back,” another man said. Locals say art installations on the rock normally last between four and five days before they are taken down.
(CNN) Tropical Cyclone Mekunu left behind death and destruction after sweeping through waters near Yemen's southern island of Socotra and pounding the island, a local official said Friday. Landfall was expected later Friday near the border of mainland Yemen and Oman. More than 45 people were unaccounted in Socotra on Friday afternoon, the official told CNN. And at least 11 people were killed in waters near the island when two ships went down in the pounding rain and wind, the official said. Winds and rains have subsided a bit in the main Socotra city of Hadibu, but the cleanup was expected to be extensive. Mekunu is now menacing coastal areas near the border of Yemen and Oman, with landfall expected west of the Omani city of Salalah late Friday afternoon or early evening local time. Socotra province is "stricken with human and material damages at all levels," government spokesman Rajeh Badi is quoted as saying by state-run news agency Saba. The internationally recognized Yemeni government declared Socotra a "disaster zone," Saba reported. Yemen already faces a humanitarian crisis after more than three years of civil war. The United Nations recently declared the situation in Yemen the world's worst humanitarian crisis , with more than 22 million -- three-quarters of the population -- in need of aid and protection. Rescue efforts to find the missing have been impeded in some areas of Socotra because of the cyclone's strength, the official said. "Hundreds have left their homes, but the cyclone has even affected those who evacuated," the official said, citing flooded streets, disabled vehicles and power cutoffs. The storm had sustained winds of 165 kilometers per hour (103 mph) earlier Friday, equivalent to the strength of a Category 2 hurricane, CNN forecasters said, with heavy bands of rain moving ashore. The strongest winds will be felt where the eye crosses the coast. Mekunu could bring between 100 and 250 millimeters (roughly 4 to 10 inches) of rainfall, in an area that usually averages 100 millimeters or less in a year, along with coastal waves up to 30 feet high. Workers walk to their camp under the rain in Salalah, Oman, on Friday. The US Embassy in Oman issued a weather alert advising people to avoid travel to the affected area until the storm dissipated. "Residents of coastal areas in and around Salalah have been evacuated further inland," it said. "Expect heavy rains and strong winds with possible flooding, mudslides, power outages and difficult travel conditions in southern Oman." Footage from Oman TV showed heavy rain and cars driving through floodwaters. 'Stricken' island province Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi deployed the Yemeni navy to assist in rescue and relief efforts on Socotra, which is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site for its biodiversity. He also "called on all humanitarian organizations concerned with disaster relief to help with providing aid to the archipelago's people," according to Saba. Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Yemen pledged to help authorities in Socotra in the aftermath of the storm, according to Saudi state news agency SPA. Military planes carrying "tens of thousands of tons of relief, shelter and medical supplies" will head to the island as soon as weather permits, said Mohammed Al-Jabir. Flood warnings A storm of Cyclone Mekunu's magnitude is a rare occurrence in the Arabian Peninsula. In 50 years, only three hurricane-strength storms have hit the Gulf of Aden. None were in the area where Mekunu was forecast to make landfall. A time-lapse video posted Friday by Ahmed Alyafai in Dhofar Governorate showed strong winds blasting palm trees on the coast. #ميكونو اشتدت سرعة الرياح الان الساعه الواحدة و نصف ظهرا حيث يتوقع وصول جدار الاعصار الساعة الرابعة عصرا و الذي ستكون فيه الرياح اقوي مما عليه الان ربنا الحافظ. pic.twitter.com/D9pcClQC9Y — Ahmed Alyafai (@MrAlyafai) May 25, 2018 Oman's Meteorology Directorate issued warnings for the Dhofar and Al Wusta coastal regions of heavy rainfall and strong winds, with rising sea levels that will cause floods. Residents were urged to stay out of the water because the sea was expected to be rough. After making landfall, the cyclone was likely to dissipate within 24 to 48 hours after encountering the region's dry and rugged desert terrain, CNN forecasters said. Cyclone Mekunu comes on the heels of another storm a week ago -- Cyclone Sagar. Although it caused little reported damage in Yemen and Oman, the storm pummeled nearby Somalia, where local media reported at least 31 dead and thousands displaced. In 2007, Cyclone Gonu killed dozens and displaced thousands as it lashed through Oman as well as causing massive disruption to oil production.
(CNN) Ebola virus disease has taken the lives of 27 people in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the World Health Organization said Wednesday. Based on information gathered this week, WHO also reported a total of 58 cases of the rare and deadly illness in the Congo outbreak. Ebola virus disease, which causes fever, severe headache and in some cases hemorrhaging, most commonly affects people and nonhuman primates, such as monkeys, gorillas and chimpanzees. There are five subtypes of Ebola virus, four of which can be transmitted from wild animals to people, who can then spread the disease person-to-person. The current outbreak is caused by the Zaire ebolavirus, which has the highest mortality rate, ranging from 60% to 90%, according to WHO. The total case count includes 28 confirmed, 21 probable and nine suspected patients from three health zones in the country's northwestern province of Equateur: Bikoro, which reported the first and most cases, Iboko and Wangata. The newest cases confirmed by WHO occurred in Wangata, a health zone in Mbandaka, a city on the Congo River and boasting a population of about a million. The spread of the virus into this particular city, which is connected to Kinshasa and bordering countries via tributaries of the Congo River, has raised fears it could spread more quickly and become harder to control, according to Peter Salama , the deputy director general of the WHO's Health Emergencies Program. Salama spoke during a briefing on the Ebola outbreak response for delegates assembled at the 71st Session of the World Health Assembly. 'Not the only challenge' Ebola virus spreads through direct contact with either bodily fluids or objects contaminated by someone ill with the disease, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In some cases, the virus is spread from contact with someone who has died from the disease. The virus enters the body through broken skin or mucous membranes in the eyes, nose or mouth. People can get it through sexual contact, as well. Three health care workers were among the 58 cases reported. "It is critical to remember that the Ebola outbreak in northwest DRC is not the only challenge this country is facing," Salama said. "There is massive population displacement, food insecurity and malnutrition, particularly in the east of the country, and multiple simultaneous outbreaks of cholera, of measles and recently of vaccine-derived poliovirus," a rare mutated strain. Pharmaceutical giant Merck has provided more than 8,000 doses of its experimental Ebola vaccine and will make an additional 8,000 doses available to WHO in the coming days. As of Monday, the starting day of the WHO vaccination program, health care workers had identified over 600 people who have come into contact with those who have fallen ill, Salama said. WHO is working with the country's Ministry of Health, Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders) and other partners to inoculate only those people at high risk of infection: primary and secondary contacts. "The detective work of epidemiology will make or break the response to this outbreak," Salama said. 'Enthusiastic and determined contributions' Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , director-general of WHO, noted the difficulty of maintaining the vaccine's proper temperature in country. "The commitment and sacrifice of those on the front line is the most important element of this outbreak," he said. In particular, he emphasized the proximity of neighboring countries as a major challenge of the current outbreak. Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO regional director for Africa, said the nine countries bordering Congo have initiated preparedness activities, which includes training health care workers and supplying clinics. Central African Republic, which is nearest to the affected Congo province, is of the greatest concern and is a priority for WHO. "I have seen enthusiastic and determined contributions to the preparedness of these countries," Moeti said. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Salama noted that, in eight Ebola outbreaks in Congo, two patterns have emerged: The virus affected either isolated rural areas only or towns only. "This outbreak has features of both," Salama said, as disease has spread from villages and begun to encroach on larger towns and cities. "We're really just at the beginning," he said. "The next few weeks will really tell if this outbreak is going to expand to urban areas or if we are going to be able to keep it under control."
So before you start the new year with your kickass gym routine, ensure you’re not making any of these mistakes... Or - and trust us, we’ve been there - you walk into the gym and you’re just so daunted by the amount of people in there who look like they have their shit together. Sometimes you get stuck in your own routine of doing the same thing every session, so you don’t stop to think whether what you’re doing is right. Whether you’ve been going to the gym for a while or you’re a complete newbie, everyone can always do a with a refresher when it comes to workout advice. We’ve launched Gym Buddies , an online fitness community to help you make lasting changes towards a healthier lifestyle. Sign up for daily motivation straight to your inbox, whether complete beginner or seasoned pro looking for a new challenge. 1. Not investing enough time in learning Chris Magee, head of yoga at Another_Space, said finding a “cookie cutter” programme from somewhere, heading to the gym and then hoping it all works out simply isn’t enough. “Invest in a couple of sessions with a trainer,” he said. “Correct and feel confident in your technique, get inspiration and accountability, and a programme tailored to your ability and goals - even if you can’t afford to keep your PT full time, those sessions are going to set you up for success. “Doing it yourself often means you set slightly unrealistic goals or time frames in which you want to achieve things as you have no point of reference.” 2. Turning up to the gym unprepared Rachel Chatham, qualified PT and part of Be:FIT London, said: “Fail to prepare, prepare to fail.” “It’s easy to talk yourself into thinking that just going to the gym is enough, and it is certainly better than nothing to get some exercise in but in order to really maximise your workouts, its best to turn up with a solidly planned-out session so you can focus your full energy on giving it all you’ve got,” she said. 3. Poor technique We get it, knowing how to perfect a press up, plank, kettlebell swing and every other move you do in the gym isn’t an easy task. But PT Tome Levi advises us to invest time in nailing your technique - or just ask the questions. Failure to do so will result in injury, and stop us progressing. Levi added: “Specifically to January, overtraining often fuelled by media-driven messages of guilt/the need to ‘detox’ over an alleged ‘over indulgence’ over the festive season, can also lead to injury. “My standard advice to anyone who is unsure of their technique whilst in a gym environment would be to stop and ask for assistance from a PT. They’re there to help you stay safe.”
She was supposed to be a Russian bot. That seemed like the best explanation for @AmyMek. No normal person could be so prolific and prejudiced. For five years, the mysterious Twitter account ― which has more than 200,000 followers, including Sean Hannity, Roseanne Barr and the personal account of Sarah Huckabee Sanders, and has earned endorsements from Donald Trump and Michael Flynn ― has tirelessly spewed far-right propaganda and, above all, Islamophobia. Around 25 tweets a day, sometimes more, the majority of them designed to stoke hatred of Muslims. Tweets like this: Twitter And this: Twitter And thousands of others. The bigotry was garden-variety Islamophobia: memes about Sharia executions and child rape, genital mutilation and Muslims torturing and butchering various life forms while dusky columns of Saracens, every one of them a potential jihadist, march into Western lands bent on pillage. What made @AmyMek special was her industriousness. She never took a break. “She’s a major cog in the Islamophobia machine,” said Ibrahim Hooper, spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, a Muslim advocacy and civil rights organization that @AmyMek often attacks. Her Twitter timeline was one long screed that reflected the collective id of the Make America Great Again movement. Tea party rage, evangelical hokum and white supremacy ― it was all there. In sufficient volume, this kind of hate can now turn any no-account right-winger into a star on social media. And it worked for @AmyMek. But who was she? Even her Twitter bio, which features a grainy photo of a blond woman who claims to be a vegan, gun-loving psychotherapist and “fixer” fighting for the “wrongfully incarcerated,” felt janky. “[A]n ideological theme park map” is how Maureen Erwin, a political consultant who wrote about her search for @AmyMek last year, described it. There is a real person, however, behind the bio. The headshot is real, if dated. And the Twitter handle, surprisingly, differs little from her actual name: Amy Jane Mekelburg. Mekelburg, who declined multiple requests from HuffPost to comment, has managed to keep almost all of her personal information off the internet. The 45-year-old resident of Fishkill, New York, grew up in a Jewish family in East Brunswick, New Jersey, a fairly affluent community not far south of New York City. Her father owns a wholesale business called Mekelburg Co. that sells magnets, keychains and assorted gimcrackery. Her brother runs a popular restaurant and craft beer bar in Brooklyn that also bears the family name. As a teenager, Mekelburg attended East Brunswick High School, where she stood out for her athletic ability and was a key member of the state championship soccer team. She graduated in 1991. East Brunswick High, according to one former classmate, was not a diverse school. “It was predominantly white with a large Jewish population,” the classmate said. He estimated that less than 1 percent of their nearly 500-person class were Muslim. East Brunswick High School yearbook After high school, Mekelburg attended the University of Rhode Island and graduated in 1996 with a degree in communication studies. She started dating future husband Salvatore “Sal” Siino, who had also grown up in New Jersey and earned a cluster of fancy degrees, including an MBA from Harvard Business School. In 2003, Siino took a job in New York City. By then, he and Mekelburg were a couple. They moved to Manhattan’s Upper East Side. It was there that Mekelburg’s life took an unusual turn. In November 2005, only a few blocks from where Mekelburg and Siino lived, a young woman who worked as a stripper was stabbed to death in an apartment, her throat slashed so viciously that she was nearly decapitated. Police found a bloody fingerprint on the wall and arrested the victim’s on-and-off boyfriend, Paul Cortez, a handsome aspiring actor who worked as a personal trainer at a neighborhood gym. A jury found Cortez guilty of second-degree murder. In March 2007, he was sentenced to 25 years to life. Mekelburg told Tina Galasso, a now-former friend, that she’d gotten to know Cortez before the murder and spent a lot of time with him. Mekelburg and Siino created a nonprofit organization dedicated to overturning Cortez’s conviction. She was the president. Siino was the moneyman. According to 2007 tax records, Siino donated more than $56,000 to hire Jeffrey Lichtman, a criminal defense attorney best known for keeping mobster John “Junior” Gotti out of prison. Lichtman was unable to win a new trial for Cortez. But the convict still had Mekelburg, who was devoted to him. When Cortez started serving his sentence at the maximum-security Auburn Correctional Facility in upstate New York, Mekelburg told Galasso and another now-former friend that she moved into a hotel near the prison. She posted her first tweet during this time ― a picture of a McDonald’s restaurant in Auburn with a “ChildObesity” hashtag. Siino, meanwhile, moved to Los Angeles to launch a doomed internet media startup called WeMash with Quincy Jones III, son of the famous music producer. In November 2015, Cortez was transferred downstate to the Green Haven Correctional Facility in Stormville, New York. Mekelburg followed him. At the beginning of 2016, she moved to Fishkill, about a 15-minute drive from Green Haven. She and Siino by then owned a $1.2 million apartment in Greenwich Village, but she wanted to be close to Cortez. She called him her “best friend.” Mekelburg told her new neighbors that she was a psychotherapist in the prison system, working to help inmates transition back to civilian life and overturn wrongful convictions. She said she had a private practice in Manhattan but had moved to Fishkill because her “clients” had been transferred to prisons throughout the Hudson Valley. She said Green Haven Correctional Facility paid her rent, but in reality, Siino took care of that. Officials at the New York State Office of Mental Health, which oversees all mental health treatment in the prison system, and the New York State Department of Corrections and Community Supervision told HuffPost that Mekelburg has never worked for them. She isn’t licensed as a psychotherapist or a social worker ― although she tricked Galasso and her then-boyfriend into doing counseling sessions with her, according to Galasso. HuffPost could find no evidence of Mekelburg ever holding a full-time job anywhere. But she’s tweeted full time since 2013. “I haven’t seen any other account that is dedicated to hate 24-7 like this,” Maureen Erwin said. From the start, Mekelburg turned to racist far-right conspiracy and propaganda sites such as InfoWars and Gateway Pundit as sources. She bashed welfare and Obamacare and fast food workers striking for higher pay. She mocked liberals for supporting Trayvon Martin, the black teenager shot to death by George Zimmerman. She fearmongered about immigrant rape gangs and government gun grabs, often attaching hashtags such as #tcot (which stands for Top Conservatives On Twitter) and #PJNET (Patriot Journalist Network) that would soon be widely used by Kremlin-controlled troll accounts. Her main target was the “tyrant” Barack Obama, whom she branded an “illegal alien” and a “jihadist.” She tweeted that “Obama’s evil is limitless.” Twitter Mekelburg dropped some clues about herself on Twitter. She and Siino interacted in tweets during early 2013 but soon stopped replying to each other. And in July 2014, she posted a request for help in locating her cousin, who had gone missing in Pennsylvania. In local news stories about the missing woman, Mekelburg was quoted under her real name. Anyone paying attention to @AmyMek would have made the connection to “Amy Mekelburg.” In 2014, she also started using neo-Nazi terms like “cultural Marxism” and borrowing propaganda from white supremacists like Kenn Gividen, who runs a racist website and at one point was the presidential candidate for the white nationalist American Freedom Party. She encouraged her readers to follow Jared Wyand, a white supremacist and anti-Semite who openly praises Adolf Hitler and denies the Holocaust happened. Hate tends to run together, which is how an Islamophobic Jew can find common ground with white supremacists and neo-Nazis. Mekelburg removed a reference to her Jewish heritage in her Twitter bio. She’d later praise British fascist Jayda Fransen and ethnonationalist Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who has used anti-Semitism for political gain by casting the Hungarian-American Jewish billionaire George Soros as an evil, globalist puppet master. Mekelburg did the same on Twitter, often using clips from the Kremlin-controlled Russia Today to attack Soros: Twitter Mekelburg also swooned over racist figures such as former Breitbart News editor Milo Yiannopolous and YouTuber Stefan Molyneux and hyped white nationalist groups such as Soldiers of Odin, Proud Boys and Generation Identity. She vilified quarterback Colin Kaepernick for taking a knee, called Black Lives Matter a terrorist group and made light of police violence against black men. She tweeted white supremacist lies about black rape statistics: Twitter Islam brought out her worst. She labeled the Prophet Muhammad a “pedophile” and a “mentally sick conman.” She called Islam a “pervert cult” and mocked Muslims for “lifting their asses” to Allah. She wanted mosques banned in the United States and called herself a modern-day “crusader.” Over and over again, she tweeted about the Muslim Brotherhood infiltrating America and the imminent threat of Sharia law. Twitter When Trump announced his presidential candidacy in 2015 and sounded Islamophobic notes, Mekelburg immediately jumped on the MAGA train. Trump reciprocated by promoting her Twitter account. By the time she’d arrived in Fishkill in early 2016, Mekelburg had a sizable social media following. She tweeted obsessively, sometimes not even looking up from her phone or her laptop when people spoke to her, according to residents of her apartment complex. The rest of her time she seemed to spend eating vegan food at local restaurants, exercising at Planet Fitness and visiting Cortez in prison. She was nasty to Muslims she met in person and sometimes shot them dirty looks or insults. Galasso and the other former friend recall Mekelburg’s reaction when they encountered a Turkish woman in the Planet Fitness bathroom. “Amy was like, ‘Oh, it fucking smells in here. These people are disgusting,’” the second ex-friend said. “She could see the woman was in there. The bathroom didn’t smell.” If a person who appeared to be of Middle Eastern descent used a piece of equipment at the gym before Mekelburg did, she’d “either clean it excessively, complain it was gross or refuse to use the machine,” Galasso said. “She was cruel in every form.” In May 2016, Mekelburg achieved Twitter stardom when The New York Times featured @AmyMek in a column about Trump’s female supporters. The column quoted “Ms. Mek” making excuses for Trump’s misogyny. The writer, Emma Roller, had interviewed Mekelburg over Twitter, but failed to ascertain her identity or address her bigotry. Mekelburg told Roller that she was too busy for a phone interview, according to emails between Roller and Maureen Erwin. Later, Mekelburg gloated to her neighbors about her media appearance, pointing to the story on her computer. (She’d doxed herself again.) Her follower count surged. She was getting thousands of retweets. As the election approached, Mekelburg used her Twitter celebrity to attack Hillary Clinton. She accused Clinton of conspiring with the Justice Department and having Democratic National Committee staffer Seth Rich murdered in a political cover-up. Perhaps incidentally, she helped boost Kremlin efforts to get a fake Benghazi quote trending in order to damage the Democratic candidate. In the hallway of her apartment complex, Mekelburg hung a Clinton bobblehead doll in a noose. After Trump’s win, Mekelburg celebrated on Twitter, but not for long. She had more hate and lies to amplify. She tweeted that anti-fascists were responsible for train derailments and that the DNC and the media caused the death of protester Heather Heyer in Charlottesville, Virginia. Not once did she criticize Trump’s racist and fascist supporters. Instead, she scapegoated Muslims for mass shootings carried out by white supremacists and far-right gun nuts such as Stephen Paddock, who massacred 58 people in Las Vegas last year. Mekelburg used Islamic State propaganda to support her own: Twitter Mekelburg had also been trying to make inroads into what Ibrahim Hooper calls “the cottage-industry of Islam haters,” which is run by bigots such as Pamela Geller, Robert Spencer, David Horowitz, Brigitte Gabriel and Frank Gaffney — several of whom have close ties to the Republican establishment and the Trump administration. Their efforts can be remunerative, thanks to generous funding from conservative and libertarian foundations such as the Donors Capital Fund. Mekelburg’s best connection to this world was through Anni Cyrus, who produces The Glazov Gang, an Islamophobic talk show that can be found on YouTube. Host Jamie Glazov is the editor of one of Horowitz’s anti-Muslim publications. Mekelburg asked for Cyrus’ help in launching her own anti-Muslim organization. Cyrus, who did not respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment, greeted Mekelburg’s overture with enthusiasm. “It’s such a privilege to hear from you as I follow your amazing work daily,” Cyrus emailed. “Thank you so much for considering me for this project. It will be an honor to be able to work with you on this.” Mekelburg named her organization Resistance Against Islamic Radicals (RAIR). She created a website, set up a Facebook page and a Twitter handle, and recruited Cortez to design artwork from behind bars, according to Galasso. RAIR’s mission would be “to stop the Jihadi infiltration in our American communities.” Mekelburg didn’t mention herself anywhere on the organization’s website. Under an “accomplices” section, however, she posted the names, photos and contact information for people and groups she believed were collaborating with jihadi terrorists. That could mean anyone with a connection to Islam. “If the local garbage man was seen going into a mosque, you could submit that information to the site and she would post it,” said Galasso. Soliciting denunciations from members of the public had a Gestapo-Stasi stink to it, and RAIR’s roster of “accomplices” included city council members, rabbis, police chiefs, mosques, newspapers and other businesses. It looked like a target list. (During the reporting of this story, the contact information for the “accomplices” was removed from the RAIR website.) Janet Lyness, the county attorney in Johnson County, Iowa, made the list because she donated to the campaign of Mazahir Salih, a Muslim woman who became the first Sudanese-American elected to public office in the United States when she won a city council seat in Iowa City last year. RAIR Lyness, who is the chief law enforcement officer for Johnson County, didn’t realize Mekelburg had targeted her until she was contacted by HuffPost. “It concerned me seeing this, accusing me and all these other people of being jihadists,” Lyness said. “While it’s ridiculous, and everything she’s saying is false and ludicrous, I do wonder who might be reading this and might follow up and want to contact or threaten anyone on this list.” Mekelburg had plenty of warning signs that her hate-slinging might have consequences. “My dads bugging out,” she texted last year, around the time she was working on RAIR. “He calls me every day bugging out. … His business is in a Muslim hotbed and my brothers restaurant has the same name. World Trade Center muslim terrorists mosque is down the street.” Mekelburg’s Islamophobia also put Siino in an awkward position. In February 2017, after his startup went out of business following a trademark dispute, Siino found a new job with the WWE, the Connecticut-based pro wrestling entertainment company co-founded by Linda McMahon, who now works in the Trump administration. Siino, who did not respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment, became a senior vice president responsible for global content distribution and business development. Mekelburg told Galasso that the WWE knew about @AmyMek and had asked Siino to keep his connection to his wife quiet. When asked by HuffPost about the veracity of this claim, the WWE at first offered a cryptic answer. “This is the first time we’re hearing about Amy Mekelburg,” said a corporate spokesperson last Thursday, requesting not to be identified by name. The company had reason to worry about Mekelburg’s Islamophobia. In the early part of 2018, the WWE and Saudi Arabia finalized a controversial 10-year deal to bring pro wrestling there. Siino was negotiating TV deals in the United Arab Emirates, according to the WWE. Back in Fishkill, his wife was casting Muslims as subhuman filth. Twitter’s policy against hateful conduct prohibits “behavior that incites fear about a protected group” and “repeated and/or non-consensual slurs, epithets, racist and sexist tropes, or other content that degrades someone.” One digital sleuth who tracks @AmyMek told HuffPost that he has reported the account to Twitter more than 50 times to no avail. Although the company has “withheld” Mekelburg’s account in Germany and France, Twitter has done little to cramp her style in the U.S. Mekelburg appeared to operate without fear of fallout anywhere. As this story neared publication, she kept tweeting hate, even when her husband’s job was in jeopardy. Last Friday, after HuffPost asked the WWE a second time if anyone there had known about @AmyMek before hiring Siino, the company responded definitively. “No,” said the WWE spokesperson. “Now that it has come to our attention, Sal Siino is no longer an employee.” Siino showed up at the Fishkill apartment complex over Memorial Day weekend, dry-cleaned shirts hanging in the back of his Audi A5. On Tuesday, he was still there. And Mekelburg was still tweeting. She raved about “jihadi rape gangs” and threw her support behind Tommy Robinson, a far-right, anti-Muslim, violent British criminal who was arrested last week for contempt of court after livestreaming about “Muslim paedophiles” outside a gang rape trial in Leeds, England. She defended Roseanne Barr after Barr tweeted racist and Islamophobic comments and anti-Semitic lies. Clearly, Mekelburg wasn’t going to stop. On Wednesday, she emailed this HuffPost reporter ― not to answer questions or address or clarify any of the information I’d gathered about her. She wanted to muscle me. “My attorney, Martin Garbus (cc’ed on this email), will contact you tomorrow morning,” she wrote. Martin Garbus is a high-profile attorney who has represented Daniel Ellsberg, Nelson Mandela and Don Imus, among many others. Two of his current clients, Paul and Chris Gaubatz, are major Islamophobes. When Garbus did not call me at the designated time Thursday morning, I called him. “I don’t represent that woman,” he told me and then hung up the phone. But that wasn’t the end for Mekelburg. She posted a long thread on Twitter blaming me for the WWE’s decision to fire Siino over her bigotry. Within minutes, her followers began calling me with threats. “You better be careful because people are out there targeting you now,” one said. “You’re going to get it now,” said another. White nationalists, misogynists and neo-Nazis all amplified Mekelburg’s comments about me. So did prominent far-right propagandists such as Jack Posobiec and Mike Cernovich, both of whom had been instrumental in driving the near-deadly “PizzaGate” disinformation campaign. Unfortunately, hate that festers online against any group of people doesn’t always stay online. Norwegian terrorist Anders Breivik murdered 77 people in 2011 after radicalizing himself with the same anti-Muslim propaganda that Mekelburg spreads. In the U.S., assaults and hate crimes against Muslims have risen alarmingly since MAGA xenophobes mustered on social media. And hate isn’t always so explosive. It often manifests as a quiet cruelty. Last year, according to Mekelburg’s other former friend, the Twitter troll stopped at a Sunoco in Fishkill to buy bananas at the gas station’s convenience store. Inside, she found an older man ― a Muslim immigrant ― working behind the counter. Mekelburg paid for her bananas but refused to speak to the man. She wouldn’t look at him. She just threw a few bills on the counter. When the man tried to place some change in her hand, she made it clear to him that he was not to touch her.
Volcanologist Arianna Soldati received her Ph.D. in geology from the University of Missouri - Columbia. In her research, she uses a combination of field and laboratory techniques to answer questions about the way lava flows advance. Follow her on Twitter @AriannaSoldati.The views expressed in this commentary are her own. (CNN) What happens when lava meets water? One might be tempted to think that lava just pours forth, quickly cools down and solidifies. But it is a lot more complicated -- and sometimes more explosive -- than that. Indeed, water plays many roles in volcanology, and the Kilauea eruption that has transfixed us all for weeks showcases them quite clearly. Arianna Soldati First of all, water drives "lava fountaining" -- the sustained emission of fluid lava hundreds of feet into the air that has riveted so many people to Kilauea's "lava cam." Magma ("lava" that has not yet surfaced) stored underneath the volcano in its feeding system -- in the Earth's crust -- contains just under 1% of water by weight. As magma rises toward the surface of the Earth, the pressure it is under decreases, making it impossible to keep the water dissolved. Just think about opening a bottle of soda -- by unscrewing the cap, you release the pressure and all of a sudden lots of bubbles (carbon dioxide in that case) suddenly "appear," or, rather, separate from the liquid and become visible. In volcanology, we say that they "nucleate." Once they have nucleated, those light, buoyant bubbles rise toward the surface faster and faster. As they do, they keep growing bigger and bigger, expanding as surrounding pressure decreases. As bubbles rise, they drag magma along. By the time they get to the surface, they are moving so fast that they overshoot the crater and head toward the sky, forming a lava fountain. Lava fountains then feed lava flows. After journeying through Kilauea's East Rift Zone, lava meets water again as the flow enters the ocean. Underwater, lava changes its appearance, forming lava pillows. This "pillow lava" -- spherical blobs of lava that cool from the outside in -- piles up and forms a steep underwater slope called a lava delta. As they are made up of loose blocks of lava amassed chaotically, lava deltas are very unstable and prone to collapse suddenly. Read More
After months of speculations, Ranbir Kapoor has finally confirmed what industry insiders have known all along -- he's dating Alia Bhatt. In an interview with GQ, the actor said that he is dating Alia and the relationship needs 'time to breathe' right now. Although both actors have openly spoken about their admiration for each other's work, this is the first time any of them has opened up about a relationship. When asked if he's dating Alia Bhatt, Kapoor said, "It's really new right now, and I don't want to overspeak. It needs time to breathe and it needs space. As an actor, as a person, Alia is — what's the right word — flowing right now. When I see her work, when I see her act, even in life, what she gives is something that I'm aspiring to for myself." Interestingly, Bhatt is very close to Katrina Kaif, Kapoor's ex-girlfriend who he broke-up with, in 2016. About being newly in love, Kapoor said, "It always comes with a lot of excitement. It's a new person, it comes with new beats. Old tricks become new tricks again — you know, being charming and romantic, all of that. I think I'm more balanced today. I value relationships more. I can appreciate hurt and what it does to a person much more than I could a couple years back." Kapoor previously dated Deepika Padukone while Bhatt was seeing her Student of the Year co-star, Sidharth Malhotra.
In a groundbreaking development, scientists at Newcastle University have successfully 3D printed the cornea from a human eye. This is the first time that we’ve been able to 3D print such a complex part of the body and it’s thought that in just a few years it could be ready for human transplantation. The cornea is a vital part of the eye but unfortunately there are some 10 million people around the world requiring surgery there is a chronic shortage or corneas available for transplant. University of Newcastle By creating a potentially limitless supply of artificial corneas this development could eventually help the millions of people who either require surgery or who suffer from total blindness as a result of burns, lacerations, abrasion or disease. So how do you 3D print one part of an eye? The process involves taking the stem cells from a healthy cornea and then mixing that with alginate and collagen to create a ‘bio-ink’ that can then be printed. The ink was then inserted into a simple low-cost 3D bio printer and told to print in concentric circles into the shape of a cornea. The whole process took just 10 minutes. Newcastle University
Story highlights Love handles are especially stubborn and do not respond as quickly to diet and exercise There is no such thing as "spot reducing" when it comes to fat loss (CNN) If you ask almost any fitness professional how to lose your love handles, they will tell you two things: No amount of abdominal crunches will make a difference if you don't first improve your diet and exercise regimen. And there is no such thing as "spot reducing" when it comes to fat loss, so you can't target this area alone. Love handles, the pinchable fat on both sides of your stomach that leads to a "muffin top" appearance, are especially stubborn. They do not respond as quickly to diet and exercise changes as the more dangerous visceral fat that is deep within your abdomen and leads to more of a "potbelly" appearance. If you are a woman and your waist is larger than 35 inches around or a man with a waist size greater than 40 inches, you will lose the deep belly fat first. This is actually better for your health, as visceral fat has been linked to numerous medical issues, including high blood pressure, high cholesterol, pre-diabetes and inflammation. To lose the subcutaneous fat that forms not-so-lovable love handles (or excess fat on your hips, thighs and buttocks), it's going to take even more time and effort. Read More
Story highlights UN: 20 million people are in need of food across four countries Famine in South Sudan alone has left 100,000 people on the verge of starvation (CNN) Twenty million people desperately need food assistance across four countries: Yemen, South Sudan, Somalia and northeast Nigeria -- according to figures from the United Nations. "We stand at a critical point in history, " UN Emergency Relief Coordinator Stephen O'Brien told the Security Council . "Already at the beginning of the year we are facing the largest humanitarian crisis since the creation of the UN." Famine in South Sudan alone has left 100,000 people on the verge of starvation and almost 5 million people, more than 40% of the country's population, in need of urgent help, aid agencies say. Somalia needs funds -- and quickly. In addition to drought and famine, diseases, like cholera and measles are spreading. Charities are responding by helping to provide food, water and sanitation, health and shelter in the distressed areas. You can make a difference by simply clicking below. Read More
Marc J. Randazza is a Las Vegas-based First Amendment attorney and managing partner of the Randazza Legal Group. Follow him on Twitter: @marcorandazza. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) Donald Trump has said a lot of strange things -- some funny, some creepy, but none scarier than what he said on Friday : that if he is elected president, he will "open up our libel laws" to make it easier to sue the media and "win lots of money." No matter what you may think about his other policy ideas, if he keeps this promise, we won't be able to effectively express dissent against anything else he might want to do. We can fight any bad policy if we have a robust First Amendment. Some say that Trump is just being a blowhard, that he doesn't know what he is talking about, and that for all his bluster, there is nothing he could or would do. I am not so sure. Trump has a history of filing SLAPP suits. SLAPP stands for Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation. This describes a lawsuit filed against someone for exercising his or her First Amendment rights -- filed with little chance of success, but with the knowledge that the lawsuit itself is the punishment. After all, if people have to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to defend themselves because they criticized Donald Trump, they might think better of doing so again in the future. However, some states, like California and Nevada , have strong anti-SLAPP laws, which dispense with such cases early and force the plaintiff to pay the defendant's attorneys' fees. (Full disclosure: I was instrumental in urging passage of the Nevada Anti-SLAPP law.) Trump recently got stung with an anti-SLAPP decision, which he probably had in mind when he spoke about "opening up" our libel laws. In fact, he isn't the first big shot to try to make it easier to sue for defamation after having a SLAPP suit blow up in his face. Therefore, Trump is clearly frustrated with anti-SLAPP laws (which shows that they work) and the landmark defamation case, New York Times v. Sullivan. When people say that Trump can't do anything about defamation law at the federal level, I think they miss the point that there is a lot of support for a federal anti-SLAPP law. I think we need one, and in fact, HR 2304 was one such proposal this last session. If it passes, we could expect President Trump to veto it. Beyond new federal legislation, defamation law is a matter of state law, leaving little for a president to do about it. To win a defamation case, the plaintiff must show publication of a false statement of fact that damages the plaintiff's reputation. This standard can vary a bit from state to state, but it generally fits that general set of requirements. Therefore, what could Trump do to "open up" the libel laws? He personally? Nothing legally, but if elected, he could pick Supreme Court justices willing to revisit New York Times v. Sullivan, which is in my view the most important case protecting our First Amendment rights. It is the greatest protection we have from government officials or powerful businesses choking the life out of public debate and a free press. Overturning it would change everything we know about freedom of the press. In a defamation case involving an ordinary citizen suing for defamation, the citizen only needs to show that the defendant knew the statement was false, or failed to exercise "reasonable care" before publishing it. So let's say that a blogger writes an article about a private citizen accusing that person of a crime, based on a false statement by a witness, without following up. That might be a failure to exercise reasonable care, and the blogger might lose the case. But if the same blogger wrote one about a public figure, like Trump, then Trump has to prove that the blogger did so with "actual malice." Even some judges and lawyers get this wrong, so don't feel bad if you didn't know what "actual malice" means. It has nothing to do with "malice" at all. It means that the defendant published the statement knowing it was false or with a reckless disregard for the truth. So if we return to my example, let's say someone wrote a blog post about Donald Trump, accusing him of a crime, but based it just on an anonymous email, without following up -- that might be considered to be "reckless disregard." Why the different standard depending on the plaintiff? From New York Times v. Sullivan: "(W)e consider this case against the background of a profound national commitment to the principle that debate on public issues should be uninhibited, robust, and wide-open, and that it may well include vehement, caustic, and sometimes unpleasantly sharp attacks on government and public officials." Debate on public issues should be uninhibited, robust, and wide-open... Justice William Brennan How beautiful that language is. It encapsulates what America is all about, the way only Justice William Brennan could. The court recognized that public figures have access to the media to defend themselves, and it went on to reject any notion that the speaker must prove truth; instead the plaintiff must prove falsity. This is all because the First Amendment needs "breathing space" in order for free speech to survive. And if we impose liability for merely erroneous reports on political conduct, it would reflect the "obsolete doctrine that the governed must not criticize their governors." So what if Trump appoints one or two Supreme Court judges who are willing to overturn Sullivan? Justice Elena Kagan has already voiced skepticism about the extension of Sullivan too far into other kinds of libel cases. The only member of the court I think we could count on to be strongly opposed to overturning it is Chief Justice John Roberts. No matter how flawed it is, our democracy depends upon robust free speech and free press rights. New York Times v. Sullivan matters more than anything else. If we lose the right to criticize the government in wide-open and robust debate, we lose an important part of what it means to be free.
With just days to go before the royal wedding, Meghan Markle’s father, Thomas Markle, has taken center stage. Kensington Palace confirmed nearly two weeks ago that the former lighting director in Hollywood ― who now lives a low-key life in Rosarito, Mexico ― would be walking his daughter down the aisle on May 19. But on Monday, Thomas Markle told TMZ that he was no longer planning to attend the wedding, several days after he had suffered a heart attack and confirmed that he’d taken staged paparazzi photos of himself getting ready for the weekend. A spokesperson for the palace declined to comment on the matter to HuffPost on Monday, but later issued a statement. “This is a deeply personal moment for Ms. Markle in the days before her wedding,” the statement said. “She and Prince Harry ask again for understanding and respect to be extended to Mr. Markle in this difficult situation.” By Tuesday, Thomas Markle had apparently changed his tune, telling TMZ that he would be going to the wedding, even though he was reportedly back in the hospital for heart issues again. “Of course I’d walk her down the aisle,” he told the outlet. “This is a historic moment. I’d like to be a part of history.” Later the same day, however, Markle talked to TMZ again, saying that he had major heart surgery scheduled on Wednesday that would prevent him from attending the ceremony. As of Tuesday evening, Thomas Markle would reportedly not walk his daughter down the aisle. Kensington Palace told HuffPost on Tuesday that it still had no comment regarding the news or the change in plans. Markle issued a statement Thursday confirming that her father would not attend the wedding, which means he won’t walk her down the aisle. “Sadly, my father will not be attending our wedding,” she said in the statement. “I have always cared for my father and hope he can be given the space he needs to focus on his health.”
MANGALORE, Karnataka -- It should have been a time of great debate with family and friends over the pressing issues of the day and the motley crew of candidates running in the Karnataka assembly election. But 20-year-old Melwyn and 21-year-old Salman are losing out on the joy and excitement of voting for the very first time in their deeply polarised hometown in Mangalore. The young men who live on the coast, which locals call the "laboratory of Hindutva" in Karnataka, have been told by their families to stay indoors and keep their mouths shut until the election is over. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the two friends believe, is a threat to the physical and mental wellbeing of religious minorities, while the Congress Party is uninspiring and tainted by corruption. They plan to vote for the Congress with the sole objective of defeating the BJP. "Is voting out of fear really voting?" asked Melwyn, a college graduate. While Salman, who is just finishing college, asked, "Are elections a curse?" SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube Are elections a curse? With polling in two weeks, the high stakes Karnataka assembly election is playing out like a do or die contest. Three major pre-poll surveys out so far predict a hung parliament with neither party getting the 113 seats needed to form a majority, and the Janata Dal (Secular), an influential regional party led by former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, playing kingmaker till the end. Earlier this year, the BJP had flown in Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to preach Hindutva, while just last week the BJP's lawmaker from Belagavi, Sanjay Patil, declared, "This election is not about road, drainage or drinking water. This election is about Hindus and Muslims religions." This election is about Hindus and Muslims religions. For the Congress Party, losing the last major state that it controls, other than Punjab, would not only be a psychological blow in the run up to the 2019 general election, it would further compromise Rahul Gandhi's image as a leader, making it less likely for other parties to accept him as a leader of a potential third front against the BJP. As a senior Congress leader put it, "Karnataka is a matter of life or death." Yet for Salman and Melwyn, this election seems almost a betrayal of the democratic process: an exercise to pick a lesser evil. "I don't even like the Congress but I'm so scared what will happen if the BJP comes to power," said Melwyn. "We will live with fear all the time. It is a fear that lives and grows inside you." We will live with fear all the time. It is a fear that lives and grows inside you. Salman, shares these concerns. "There will be killings," Salman said. "The first thing they will do is impose a beef ban and then the cow vigilantes will go wild." Turning to Melwyn, Salman asked if he had watched the interview in which actor and director Prakash Rai had described BJP as a "cancer" and the Congress as a "viral disease." Laughing loudly, Melwyn said, "I agree. BJP is a cancer and Congress is a like a cold and cough." BJP President Amit Shah during an interactive session in Bengaluru on April 19, 2018. Employment? Freedom! Melwyn, who grew up in Mangalore, recalls that his family had voted for the BJP in the 2008 Assembly election. While sipping nimboo paani, Melwyn explained that once upon a time, there were many things that he liked about Modi, especially his style of speaking and his promise of jobs. "I thought he would be a great leader for this country, but his promises turned out to be fake," he said. "I don't hold Modi responsible for every crime committed against a Muslim or Christian, but it has happened in his name, in the name of his party, and he has let it happen." For first-time voters, Melwyn and Salman, employment, or rather looming unemployment, weighs heavily on their minds. There are hardly any lucrative prospects for them in Mangalore, which is a bustling port of trade and commerce, but bereft of multinational companies that can offer jobs to young people graduating with a wide assortment of degrees. Modi, in 2013, had promised that the BJP would create 10 million jobs if it came to power. The 2016-17 Economic Survey showed that unemployment rate had increased from 4.9% in 2013-14 to 5%, and 641,000 jobs were created between July 2014 and December 2016 in eight major sectors. Earlier this year, the International Labour Organization (ILO) projected that India's unemployment rate is expected to remain static at 3.5 percent, while the number of unemployed persons is expected to rise from 18.3 million in 2017 to 18.6 million in 2018 and 18.9 million by 2019. Melwyn, who recently graduated with a B. Com degree, and Salman, who recently returned from Saudi Arabia to pursue BBA, believe that it is the violence ensuing from the Hindu and Islamic fundamentalism along the coast, which keeps MNCs and big business away. Melwyn said, "Here, I could probably get a job for Rs.8000 per month, that's it. In Bangalore, it could be Rs. 25,000. Things are very bad for the youth." But when asked to pick the one thing worth voting for, they both cried, almost in unison, "Freedom." "For me, freedom is to not be judged and to live without fear," said Salman. For me, freedom is to not be judged and to live without fear. Far from not being judged, Melwyn said that Muslims and Christians had been "branded" by the Hindutva forces. "They have branded us. The Christians are all about 'booze and dancing.' The Muslims are about 'women and beef.' That is what they make people think of us," he said. Melwyn added, "I know what freedom is but I don't know who can deliver it." I know what freedom is but I don't know who can deliver it. James Manor, emeritus professor of commonwealth studies at the School of Advanced Studies, University of London, said, "This is the first campaign in the state's history marked by extravagant name calling by BJP leaders, referring to the Chief Minister as Mullah Siddaramaiah, Sultan Siddaramaiah and Siddaravana. The BJP may still do well, but it will be in spite of these oddities, not because of them." Manor, who has studied Karnataka elections for the past four decades, also noted that BJP party president Amit Shah was running a "strange" campaign involving a pre-determined set of slogans and tactics, without considering everyday issues, and without taking any advice from grassroots workers in the state. "He did the same thing in the Delhi and Bihar state elections which led to disaster, and to the deep anger of state BJP activists," he said. A "strange" campaign involving a pre-determined set of slogans and tactics... The Congress is banking on a host of Siddaramaiah's schemes of free rice, free milk, and subsidized canteens for the poor, the granting of religious minority status to the community of Lingayats, and the Muslim (12.92 percent of the population) and Christian (1.87 percent) vote. If the Congress manages 113 out of the 224 seats in the Assembly, it would be the first party to form a majority government in the state for a second consecutive term since 1989. Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing Farmer's Convention in Davangere on on February 27, 2018. Growing Clout While the coastal Karnataka has been a Sangh Parivar frontier for nearly half a century, it was in the 1990s, after the fall of the Babri Masjid in that BJP's political clout started growing in the region. Karnataka was the first southern state where the BJP came to power in 2008, but four years of mis-governance, corruption and infighting led to defeat in the 2013 state election. The BJP, reduced to 40 seats, won just five out of the 24 assembly seats in the coastal districts of Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chikmagalur. The BJP bounced back as the Modi wave swept the country one year later, winning 17 out of 28 Lok Sabha seats from Karnataka, including all the three parliamentary constituencies along the coast. K Phaniraj, a civil engineer and member of the Karnataka Komu Souharda Vedike (Karnataka Forum for Communal Harmony), said that the BJP had spent its five years in the Opposition raising communal issues and embarrassing the Congress government over inter-state matters. "Okay, we get it, you don't like Muslims, but my question to the BJP is what have you done for the state? Except for communalism, what issues have you raised?" My question to the BJP is what have you done for the state? Communal campaigning The BJP's campaign, even beyond the Hindutva hotbed along the coast, has focused on communalizing a spate of political killings since 2013, when the Congress came to power in Karnataka. In the narrative peddled by the BJP and its right-wing allies, "jihadists" of the Muslim organisation, including the Kerala-based Popular Front of India (PFI), and its political wing, Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), have killed 23 Hindus in the past four years. The state government, desperate to counter accusations of minority appeasement, claimed that only nine of the 23 murders had anything to do without religion. The other deaths were caused by personal enmity, accident or suicide. In fact, it turned out that one man on the list, Ashok Poojary, was actually alive. Facts and figures, however, have paled before the fiery rhetoric from the Hindutva camp. While Karandlaje, who represents the coastal constituency of Udupi-Chikkamagaluru, told Lok Sabha that "jihadi forces are killing Hindu activists in large numbers," Hegde from Uttara Kannada asked whether Siddaramaiah would celebrate 'Ajmal Kasab Jayanti.' Addressing a public rally in Bengaluru, earlier this year, Adityanath asked Siddaramaiah to prove his Hindu credentials by banning cow slaughter and beef in the state. Addressing a public rally in India's Silicon Valley, a month later, Modi pointedly raised the murder of Hindu activists. Making a play on the phrase "ease of doing business," he said that there was "ease of doing murders" in Karnataka. Given that communal violence has increased by 37 percent from 2014 to 2017 in Karnataka, and the state is ranked among the five states with the most communal incidents from 2008 to 2017, it is fair game to call out the state government for its failure to maintain law and order. (The BJP ruled Karnataka from 2008 to 2013). There have been over 90 political murders in the state from 2000 to 2017, an average of five every year. Karnataka, in fact, also constitutes 11.78 percent of political murders in South India, but still fares better than Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala. On the one hand, the Congress government has failed to solve the murders of rationalist M.M. Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh, both fearless critics of Hindu right wing politics. On the other hand, it has tried to drop charges against Muslims accused in communal violence case, which has allowed BJP to raise hell over minority appeasement. Political analysts, however, doubt if BJP's communal blitzkrieg has gained traction. "Voters have tired of, or largely disregarded, communal themes and claims about killings on the coast, just as they know that BJP claims about chaos and the breakdown of public order are gross exaggerations of just plain lies," Manor said. "The BJP may still do well, but it will owe much more to these very sophisticated voters' views that their MLAs or the Congress government have been disappointing." Phaniraj, who hails from the coastal city of Udupi, noted that unlike Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, religious prejudice did not necessarily fashion electoral choices in Karnataka. "Karnataka is not UP or Bihar," he said. "Here, a person can be communalized, he or she may not like Muslims in their personal lives, but they will still vote on secular issues." Here, a person can be communalized, he or she may not like Muslims in their personal lives, but they will still vote on secular issues. The Congress has also countered BJP's communal campaign by stressing on regional identity, with Siddaramaiah removing Hindi signs from metro stations and unveiling a state flag ahead of the election. The chief minister, however, has not remained aloof to the BJP's Hindutva campaign. At one point, he declared that 'Rama' was part of his name. "I am also Hindu and I have Rama in my name. BJP people should refrain from calling me anti-Hindu," he said. Shaking his head, Melwyn said, "I don't think anyone is behaving like Lord Ram these days." I don't think anyone is behaving like Lord Ram these days. Universal History Archive via Getty Images Discovery of the body of Tipu Sahib at Seringapatam, 1799. Tipu Sultan When ensconced in UP, Adityanath has knocked the Taj Mahal, but in Karnataka, his target has been Tipu Sultan, the 18th century ruler of Mysore. Flaying the chief minister's decision to mark the birth anniversary of Tipu Sultan, the UP chief minister said, "Tell the Congress that in India, Hanuman will be revered and not Tipu Sultan." The Muslim ruler has gone down in history as the "Tiger of Mysore," who fought long and hard against the East India Company, and as an innovator who introduced all manner of technologies from cutting edge weaponry to organised silk farming. There are, however, those who denounce him as a tyrant that destroyed temples, churches and forced mass conversions. While chief minister has rebuffed allegations that he is pandering to Muslims by celebrating Tipu Sultan's birth anniversary, violent protests have rocked Coorg, around 260 kilometres from Bangalore, where the Muslim ruler's exploits still live in infamy. Salman can see how both sides are using Tipu Sultan to get votes, and he resents getting caught in the crossfire. "I personally don't care whether the Congress chooses to celebrate Tipu Sultan or not, but what ends up happening is, whether it is the Taj or Tipu, the BJP uses it to make Muslims look bad," he said. "It's like how the beef ban is less about protecting cows and more about attacking Muslims." It's like how the beef ban is less about protecting cows and more about attacking Muslims. The conversation took an interesting turn when Melwyn piped up about how the Catholics in Mangalore had also not forgotten the destruction of their churches at the hands of the Muslim ruler. In the classes that he took to learn the Konkani language, Melwyn learnt how Tipu Sultan razed the Milagres Church in Mangalore in the 18th century. Laughing loudly, Melwyn reassured Salman that he was over the destruction of the church and bore him no ill will. As they both laughed, Melwyn said, "If the BJP or Congress think that I'm going to vote in 2018, while remembering Tipu Sultan from 200 years ago, then they must be mad," he said. Also on HuffPost India
Attorney Frank D. LoMonte is a professor of media law at the University of Florida, where he runs the Brechner Center for Freedom of Information . As the executive director of the Student Press Law Center from 2008 until August 2017, he launched the "New Voices" initiative to enact laws protecting student journalism. The views expressed in this commentary are solely his. This is the latest installment in CNN Opinion's series on the challenges facing the media as it is under attack from critics, governments and changing technology. (CNN) When a California judge entered an unlawful order sealing an entire lawsuit file -- including, bizarrely, even the court order imposing the seal -- outraged journalists took action to defend the public's right to know. With the help of volunteer legal counsel, reporters Anumita Jain and Armaan Rashid filed a petition in a Contra Costa County court to unseal the case file, which involves a school district's decision to discipline a Danville student over a homemade social-media video said to depict Arabs as terrorists. The school district's decision to remove the student as president of the student government association as punishment for the video -- and then restore him to the position after a public outcry -- dominated two local school board meetings, but without access to the court file, the details of the case (including the contents of the video) remain a puzzle to the community. There's nothing especially novel about the case -- except that the journalists are themselves in high school , staff members of the Wildcat Tribune newspaper that has provided the community's most thorough and reliable coverage of the lawsuit and the controversy behind it. "As journalists, Rashid and Jani are attempting to discharge their duties in the highest and best ethical tradition by obtaining direct access to first-hand documentation about a news event," says their motion to unseal the file, which is awaiting a ruling in Contra Costa County Superior Court. That high school journalists are capable of work rivaling that of professionals, and that they have taken the lead in battling a lack of government transparency, should come as no surprise to anyone. Some of the best journalism in America today is coming out of student-run outlets, as demonstrated by the acclaimed investigative reporting of a team at Kansas' Pittsburg High School, who so painstakingly discredited their newly hired principal's inflated resumé that she was forced to resign. It may come as more of a surprise to learn that in many ways, this dedication is more the rule than the exception. Student journalists are, increasingly, the information lifeline for their communities. With employment in traditional newsrooms hitting historic lows , down 42% since 1990, the public is more reliant than ever on students to sound the alarm if schools are unsafe or ineffective -- or if there's any story unfolding on their campus that could affect their community. Education news now accounts for just 1.4% of the time and space in mainstream media outlets, according to a 2009 study by the Brookings Institution. It's up to students to fill that information void -- if their schools will let them. High schools often nurture the mentality that students have a "civic duty" to say only favorable things about the education they're receiving. "Be true to your school" is a nice enough idea -- but you won't find it in the Constitution. "Citizens will be punished if they question or criticize the government" isn't a sentiment that belongs in any American educational institution. As a lawyer assisting students in censorship cases, I once had a school superintendent in Tennessee tell me that a student's political column was rejected because it "might cause passionate conversations" -- as if passionate conversations about politics were a distraction from learning and not central to it. Regrettably, for every student in a well-supported journalism program at a secondary school empowered to use media to right wrongs, there is another student who's been bullied and silenced by image-obsessed school authorities whose highest priority is avoiding controversy, not providing a quality education. In Flushing, New York, for example , a principal refused to print an entire edition of the Advocate newspaper in spring 2017 because of a column that captured students' honest assessment of the shortcomings of Flushing High School (in particular, one student's comment that "out of my 8 classes, only 3 of my teachers really care.") In Omaha, Nebraska, school authorities retaliated against the Pawprint student news outlet at Millard West High School for a factually accurate article questioning the propriety of some (unnamed) teachers' classroom criticisms of President Trump. First, they pulled the article offline. Then, after relenting in the face of a potential First Amendment lawsuit, they removed a well-credentialed faculty adviser from her job -- just weeks after her students won the best-in-state award for the newspaper she advised. In the Chicago suburb of Steinmetz in 2016, a high school principal ordered the student newspaper shuttered and the journalism program canceled in mid-semester after a student reporter defied his orders not to write on her personal off-campus blog about a controversy over changing the starting time of the school day. (The school district ultimately overruled the decision after private benefactors stepped forward to volunteer to pay for printing the newspaper.) While it seems outrageous for schools to use their power over students for purposes of public relations or image maintenance, it's not clear that it's illegal. In a 1988 ruling, Hazelwood School District v. Kuhlmeier , the US Supreme Court stripped students of all meaningful constitutional protection when they use a school-provided publication or platform to convey their speech. The Hazelwood decision was widely denounced by First Amendment scholars at the time, and it hasn't aged well -- imagine, in 2017, trying to prevent high school students from learning about teen pregnancy by yanking pages out of newspapers, as the principal of Hazelwood East High School did -- but it endures as a stain on the lawbooks. In the 30 years since, there is only one documented case of a high school journalist successfully challenging school censorship in court, a 2004 case in which a Michigan student was prevented from publishing a truthful article about a lawsuit against her school because the school didn't want to call public attention to the case. Fortunately, help is on the way. Increasingly, state legislators are recognizing the unique educational value of student journalism and stepping up to protect the journalists that Hazelwood left vulnerable. California and Kansas were among the first states to embrace press freedom in schools, and it's no coincidence that the courageous public-service journalism being done in Danville and Pittsburg isn't being seen in Flushing or in Omaha. Thirteen states from coast-to-coast now protect student journalism against image-motivated censorship, and bills are anticipated in at least a half-dozen other states in 2018. The case for protecting press freedom in schools isn't just about training future journalists. It's about developing inquisitive, participatory citizens willing to ask the hard questions of government authorities that involved citizenship demands. It's also about rooting out systemic inequality. Research by University of Kansas scholars documents that censorship is a pervasive problem in high school newsrooms -- and that it disproportionately affects young women. More than half of all female students surveyed during the 2015 school year reported that they'd "self-censored" from pursuing a story, anticipating an adverse reaction from school authorities -- a rate twice that of male students. And more than one-third of all students said they'd been categorically banned from talking about certain topics in student media. (The most frequently forbidden subject? Unthinkably, in the midst of an epidemic of opioid fatalities, it's substance abuse.) Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Kansas journalism professor Peter Bobkowski, co-leader of the survey, has documented the civic-education benefits of working in a student newsroom where First Amendment principles are honored. After separately surveying 900 high school journalists across a variety of schools in Kansas and Missouri, Bobkowski found that students whose journalistic work is respected and valued develop greater confidence (what he calls "civic efficacy") in their ability to use their voices to make social and political change. It's fashionable to point fingers at social-justice-drunk "snowflakes" for devaluing the First Amendment in higher education, but that misses the point. Students arriving on America's college campuses have largely spent the formative years of their educational lives watching fundamental constitutional principles devalued and their rights and voices routinely disregarded without consequence by respected authority figures. It's no mystery why students believe it's the government's job to protect them from offensive speech: the Supreme Court told them in Hazelwood that the government's interest in avoiding political controversy is more important than freedom of the press, and they've lived that reality every day of their K-12 lives. The erosion of First Amendment values will be reversed only when schools reopen their doors to the "passionate conversations" that effective civic learning requires.
Carol Costello anchors the 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) The marriage apocalypse may be coming. Talk to any millennial and you can envision an America virtually marriage-free, with everyone happily single. I did. And I do. Recently, I talked about marriage with a group of journalism students from my alma mater, Kent State University. They came to me for career advice, which I gave them, but I also picked their brains about politics, religion and marriage. Their views on marriage intrigued me the most. 'Cause, guess what? They don't care what your generation thinks -- they'll get married if and when they want. "I didn't go to college for four years to be a mom," 21-year old Candace Monacelli told me. "There's no housewife degree. I've worked my butt off for four years to get this degree. You want to use it. You want to be successful. You want to have that happy part of your life as well." Jackie Demate, also 21, agreed. "I would have a very hard time justifying spending $20,000 on a wedding when I could go to Europe." Carol Costello At first I thought Jackie was kidding. So jokingly, I responded, "Wow, some people would say, with that attitude, you are undermining the moral foundation of this country!" Jackie didn't blink. "But, Europe!" she exclaimed. "I'm really looking for a travel buddy. And I don't think you need a wedding ring to prove that you love someone. I see a lot of people get married too soon or stay together and are unhappy because they are afraid to be alone. And I would rather be alone, successful and happy than in a relationship where I'm not happy. ... I'm OK being single forever. As long as I'm happy." Before you berate Jackie for prioritizing her love of travel over marriage, consider where she's coming from. A culture rich in divorce. In the United States, almost 42 million adults have been married more than once . That's up from 22 million in 1980 and 14 million in 1960. Percentage-wise, that means that among adults who are currently married, roughly a quarter (23%) have been married before, compared with 13% in 1960. What a fine example my generation is! Not. Still, there are no doubt more than a few parents out there wondering where they went wrong. Especially in light of a fascinating Pew Research report on marriage. When asked if society is just as well off if people have priorities other than marriage and children, 50% of respondents were OK with that. And of that 50%, 66% were adults between 18 and 29. Religious leaders are deeply concerned for moral reasons. Economists are concerned for our collective future. Studies show marriage is correlated with economic well-being, though it is not clear whether the causality arrow goes from marriage toward economic benefit or in the other direction. A study sponsored by the conservative American Enterprise Institute says: "From an obvious standpoint, households with two adults are likelier to have two incomes, improving well-being." On the other hand, the study points out, people who have money may be "more desirable marriage prospects." Bingo on that point. The millennials I talked with prefer their partners to be debt-free and riding high. They also don't want to burden a husband or wife with their own debt. "Right now, I'm 21 years old. And I'm thousands of dollars in debt," Emily Crille told me. "That wasn't something my parents bore. And it's really hard to plan a wedding, or even think about something like that when you owe so much money, you don't have a job, and you don't have a home." I felt a certain sense of pride at their sassy attitudes. As a child of divorce I never wanted to get married, either -- until I met my husband at 38. But, when I was in my twenties, waiting to marry the right man and forgoing children put me decidedly and uncomfortably in the minority. I heard the whispers: Is there something wrong with her? Is she selfish? Unlovable? Perhaps it is selfish to establish a career, travel and have a child on your own. Or, maybe it's exactly right. Scandinavians are just about there. According to USA Today : "In Norway ... 82% of couples have their first child out of wedlock. The numbers are similarly high for Sweden and Denmark. While many couples marry after having the first or second child, it's clear marriage in parts of Scandinavia is dying." The article also points out that "Norway ranked first and Sweden second in the United Nations' quality-of-life survey for 2004, which rates per capita income, education levels, health care and life expectancy in measuring a nation's well-being. The USA came in eighth." In an effort to understand the joys of "sambo," the term for living together in Scandinavia, my producer reached out to Mikael Anteskog Adler, a 35-year-old man from Stockholm, Sweden. "To put it short," he told us, "marriage costs money (party, clothes, rings, honeymoon trip, etc.) and gives no significant advantages, as there are no economic or legal advantages and no real social pressure to get married, or anyone frowning on premarital sex and cohabitation." Wow. Fifty-year-old Anne Lehes, from Gothenburg, Sweden, told my producer, "I believe that one reason for many Swedes staying single is because this is a secular country, so people think they will become fulfilled by their partner, and inevitably they get disappointed and then they don't think the whole thing is worth it." Maybe Christina Hugosson of Uppsala, Sweden, sums it up best: "The notion that marriage is something that you're pressured into seems horrible to me. ... Marriage should be for love, not a matter of expectations, routine and everyday practicalities." My Kent State millennials -- true romantics -- would agree wholeheartedly with Hugossan. Emily told me as much, "Marriage is about love. It's not about planning or timing, and that's what we're all kind of waiting for." Marriage is about love, but you have to be good partners, too. And, as they say, sometimes love isn't enough. Which brings me back to that idea of a pending marriage apocalypse. Would it be so terrible if we all remained single? If I had remained single? I thought about it. So did my husband. We didn't plan to have children, what was the point? In the end, we made a decision based on love and practicality. A commitment would not only prove our love, but also force us to get through the bad times couples are sure to endure. Eleven years later we have no regrets. But, we are not you and yours. Would a society without marriage be just as well off as one filled with "I dos"? I don't know. But I would love to know if you do.
Don't toss that yogurt cup even if it's a few days past its best-before date, says a national study on reducing Canada's colossal food waste. The National Zero Waste Council says confusing and unnecessary best-by labels are a major cause of food waste in Canada. "(People) don't know what they mean," said Denise Philippe, who helped write the report. "When they see 'best before' they think it means if they eat it afterwards, there's going to be a health problem. That's not true." Research suggests Canadians are among the biggest food-wasters in the world. A recent study found every Canadian lost or wasted almost 400 kilograms of food a year. A lot of that waste — 47 per cent — happens at home. The council has been considering how to reduce that waste since 2016. Its work has included 900 submissions from industry groups, governments, organizations and individuals. Best-before labels emerged as major villains. People assume food past the date on a package is spoiled, Philippe said. Consumers have no idea of what it is they're looking at. With the exception of products such as eggs, best-before dates refer to food quality, not safety. Many products that carry the dates don't even need them, she said. "That chip might be slightly crispier if you eat it before that date and slightly less crispy if you eat it after. You would be amazed at how long that yogurt lasts." Presentation and language are also ambiguous. "Consumers have no idea of what it is they're looking at," Philippe said. "(A product) might say 'best before 1/3' and it's not clear whether that's January 3rd or March 1st. Canada needs to standardize dates and terms, Philippe suggested. "We don't have clarity around the text that's being used, the format of the date, the product that it's stamped on, nor the meaning of the word." That means good food ends up in the kitchen garbage bin and the grocery dumpster. "Perfectly good pallets of hummus are pulled just before their best-before date." Canada needs to standardize dates and terms, Philippe suggested. That's already taking place in Europe and the United States, where labels are beginning to say "use by," "freeze by," or "tastes best by" to address safety and quality. Unused food can be turned into other items The report makes other recommendations. It says governments should harmonize rules on food donations and food waste in landfills. Processors and retailers, where another 30 per cent of waste takes place, need better inventory control, it adds. Packaging smaller servings for smaller households would help. So would avoiding consumption-based marketing such as two-for-one sales. Retailers can market visually imperfect food at a discount. Unused food can be turned into other items. A British company, for example, brews beer from stale bread. Business is behind the effort, said Cher Mereweather of the Provision Coalition, an association of industry groups that participated in the council's study. "If we're wasting product, then that drives down our profitability. There's also the environmental impacts. Then on the social side, if we have more food available to feed the growing population, that's a good thing," she said. Mereweather echoed the call for consistent government rules and standard labels. "What we're looking at is the need for clear language ... so the consumer knows 'expires by' means no longer safe and 'use by' means it's a quality standard." It's not easy. We need a shift in our mindset. The federal government has promised to cut food waste in half by 2030 and is writing a national food policy that will also tackle waste. Philippe said her group will soon begin a national campaign to get people thinking about how to waste less of what they eat. But she knows change will take time. "This issue is huge. It's global. It affects huge supply chains." It affects everyone, said Mereweather. "It's not easy. We need a shift in our mindset." CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story said Cher Mereweather was part of Provisions Canada. Mereweather is executive director of the Provision Coalition.
Basalt, Colorado (CNN) Amanda Boxtel was 24 years old when she lay in a hospital bed, unable to move her legs. A doctor came in to tell her she would never walk again -- that her skiing accident had shattered four vertebrae and she was paralyzed from the waist down. "I was an athlete. I was a dancer; an aerobics dancer with big hair in the '80s," said Boxtel, now 50. "I felt invincible. And that all changed in a split second." Despite her injury, Boxtel didn't stop living life. In the 26 years since, she's had many adventures: skiing, mountain biking, parasailing, traveling the world. "Destiny waits for no woman," Boxtel often says. "There wasn't the technology we have today. So, I had to figure out a lot for myself. I started my own fitness regimen and found my new life." In 2010, she learned about bionic exoskeleton suits -- machines that help people with mobility issues walk. In an exoskeleton, Boxtel took her first step in 18 years. She loved it so much, she raised funds to purchase her own. In a little more than a year, she took about 130,000 steps in the machine. Her health began to improve, her chronic pain started to decrease, and she felt stronger than ever. "Human bodies are meant to stand and walk," she said. But Boxtel also felt guilty, realizing this technology was not easily accessible or affordable. "I thought, 'Amanda, why do you have to be the lucky girl? This is a fully adjustable device. We could get a whole community up and walking with this unit.' " In 2014, she started Bridging Bionics to do just that. The nonprofit provides high-tech physical therapy to people with mobility impairments near Aspen, Colorado. The program is based in two local fitness facilities. The group's physical therapists work one-on-one with clients, creating individualized plans based on their mobility issues -- ranging from spinal cord injuries to neurological disorders like multiple sclerosis, cerebral palsy and Parkinson's disease. "I wanted to ... put it into a health club that promoted wellbeing, where someone could just walk in an exoskeleton doing physical therapy, but alongside someone else on a treadmill," Boxtel said. "Disability can be socially isolating, and we are about bridging community, getting people out of their homes and engaging." The organization has provided its free or low-cost therapeutic sessions to more than 60 people, helping them overcome their injuries and do something doctors never believed possible: walk again. CNN's Meghan Dunn spoke with Boxtel about her work. Below is an edited version of their conversation. CNN: What was it like the first time you stood up in an exoskeleton suit? Amanda Boxtel: When I stood up, I looked at the world from a new perspective. It was as if all my dreams were burgeoning to life in one upright, powerful moment. It was psychological. For the first time, I could look across the room at things high. I wasn't looking up at nostrils or looking at navels. My world changed. It was not just this amazing physiological thing that happened to me. I could look at someone eye to eye, and I could have that delicious heart to heart hug. CNN: Your organization uses two types of technology. What are they, and how do they help? Boxtel: I incorporated whole body, side-alternating vibration and the bionic exoskeleton suit. I believe that the combination of these two technologies can reduce the risk of secondary complications associated with paralysis and neuromuscular impairments. The combination gives you a cardio workout, an increase in joint range of motion and circulation, especially in the paralyzed extremities. The main thing is a decrease in spasticity. Tone reduction or spasticity is so common, and these technologies combat that. JUST WATCHED CNN Heroes: Learning to walk...again Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Heroes: Learning to walk...again 02:51 The exoskeleton on its own takes it a step further. You can fully weight bear; it is fully supporting the individual, and that is critical for bone density. Your joints and bones are aligned as they were designed to be. It helps a person walk over ground, but not with stiff legs. It is a very natural gait, where I am bending my knee and I am striking the ground with my heel as you do when you walk. But I am walking over ground through space with the world going by me -- so I am getting the visual cues to help rewire the brain and reconnect neuropathways. And there is evidence that just pure robotics assist and repetitive stepping over ground is rehabilitative. CNN: You're also helping people have access to this technology all the time, beyond the therapy sessions. Boxtel: We help people with fundraising campaigns to acquire advanced technology to use at home -- so they can access this every day. If you can have this at home every day, it will help with secondary complications and recovery. But it is daunting when you find out something costs $90,000. So, that's where we come in and provide fundraising materials and fundraising ideas to help. Everybody should have access to this technology. That's my goal. How do we make this for humanity so that people don't just sit at home? People need to start believing in themselves and their potential. Life isn't over. They can still recover. Want to get involved? Check out the Bridging Bionics website and see how to help. To donate to Bridging Bionics, click the CrowdRise widget below.
Since this story originally published in 2017, Claire Wineland had a change of heart and is now hoping to get a double-lung transplant . Venice Beach, California (CNN) As a small child, she played hide-and-seek with nurses, ripped out IVs to race around the hospital floor naked and left an explosion of glitter in her wake. As a teen, she got boys to carry her uphill when she was tired, taught her best friend how to flirt and watched her doctor squirm as he gave her the safe-sex talk. And as an adult, Claire Wineland has continued living out loud, even as her body fails her. Claire, 20, has cystic fibrosis, a genetic and terminal progressive disease that's landed her in the hospital for a quarter of her life. Ask what's on her bucket list, and she'll say she doesn't have one. Fixating on a checklist of goals before she goes "sounds exhausting," she says, especially "when you've been dying your whole life." Instead, she'd rather focus on doing all she can in each moment. It's a sort of wisdom that makes some describe this California free spirit as "an old soul" or "a little Buddha." I meet Claire in a Venice Beach café; everyone who works there seems to know her. She's on a mission to normalize sickness, push back at those who pity her and have a meaningful life for however long it lasts. Although she certainly has her down days -- "Who doesn't?" she notes -- this self-described "goofball" tackles life with humor and the sort of charisma that draws people to her. Claire Wineland smiles broadly at a comedy roast to raise money for Claire's Place Foundation in July 2015. Still, she says, she must train people to feel comfortable around her. "I can't just expect people to know what to say," she says, "I have to make them see me as more than my illness." She's been working at it on a number of fronts: In high school, she created a series of videos that went viral and penned pieces for national audiences, including one for CNN . She's appeared in magazines, on television shows and at teen award ceremonies. She's heading up a foundation, writing a book -- she promises it's not "another happy sick person book" -- and packing in as much as her 5-foot-2, 95-pound frame can handle. Through it all, she gives public talks. On this day, that's at a TEDx event in Encinitas, a beachside community 100 miles south of her apartment in LA's Venice Beach. We'd arranged to take the train down for the event. But she'd been fighting a fever as high as 103 the day before, the result of one of many infections her body continuously fights. When I offer to drive instead, she seems relieved. I am, too. She's chatty and bubbly for most of the two-plus-hour trip, until she feels the fever coming back and curls up in the passenger seat for a nap. The only sound from her now is an occasional cough and the pumping of a portable oxygen concentrator, which gives her the air she needs without the burden of a tank. When I glance over, I spot a tattoo on her left ankle: the "thumbs up" logo from "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy," with the phrase "DON'T PANIC." But I start to do so when she wakes up and says her lungs feel "funny." At the venue, she makes her way to the "green room," where she sits, eyes closed, willing stomach pains to subside, trying to pull it together. She's set to go on in 20 minutes, and I'm afraid she won't make it. More than a sick kid She's been riveting audiences since she was 14, when she first stepped on a stage in a new ruffled dress. When I picked her up at her apartment, she wore faded black jeans and a black T-shirt that read "Sexual Intellectual." "Life is too short to not be yourself," she said. Ever since she was little, she found it strange how people treated her. They'd peer down with sad eyes and say, "I'm so sorry." It was a statement she heard so often, it was hard not to internalize. And in a society consumed with being healthy, she grew confused. "What happens when you have an illness where you're never going to be healthy?" she asked. "Does that mean I'm never going to have a life? Am I never going to do anything or be anything other than a sick kid?" Claire is one of 70,000 people worldwide, 30,000 in the United States alone, who live with cystic fibrosis, the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation estimates. To have the disease, both parents must be carriers of the CF gene. If they are, there's a one in four chance their children will be born with the disease. Cystic fibrosis leads to an overabundance of mucus, which blocks airways and traps infections in the lungs, complicates digestion, affects the pancreas and other organs and, with time, causes respiratory failure. At last count, Claire says, she's had more than 30 surgeries. On a daily basis, she takes about four dozen medications, including self-administered shots for her CF-related diabetes, and might spend up to six hours on breathing treatments. She dons a vest to shake her lungs and loosen mucus, and uses a nebulizer to blow in steam and inhale medicines. She can cough up enough mucus each day to measure in cups. She gets admitted to the hospital for regular tuneups and intensive treatments. All the while, with her lung capacity diminished, her body works harder to breathe. "It's like I'm jogging 24/7," she said. She must consume as many as 5,000 calories a day to maintain her weight -- forget about gaining any. That explains the two large pastries she ordered for lunch when we met, and the French fries she got to go. And it's why her younger sister, Elanore Nordquist, 13, used to get miffed whenever she wasn't allowed a second piece of cake but Claire could always have as much as she wanted. Even with this carte blanche for consumption, Claire takes in 2,000 calories through a feeding tube as she sleeps, while a machine helps her breathe so her body can rest. Pineapples and mushrooms Claire can laugh at the absurdities in her life. She tells stories of strangers who've approached her with unsolicited prescriptions for cures. The produce section of Whole Foods is ripe for material, she says. One shopper told her she simply needed to eat more pineapple. Another said all she required was a mushroom cleanse. And then there was the homeless guy outside a gas station who insisted that the mind can change reality and that she didn't need to be sick. She remembered thinking, with a laugh, "If that's true, why are you homeless?" But it was a friend who, when Claire was 11, changed her outlook by handing her a book he insisted she see. Claire has always welcomed chances to escape Los Angeles and breathe cleaner air. Here, she visits Vancouver, British Columbia, several years ago. It was Stephen Hawking's "A Brief History of Time." The cosmology book blew her young and curious mind, and she rushed to the library to learn more about its author. Only then did she find out that Hawking had ALS, or Lou Gehrig's disease, and was terminally ill, too. Until that moment, Claire -- an avid reader -- had yet to find any role models, examples of sick people doing remarkable things. "His body was completely failing, but he was contributing something incredible to society," she said. Hawking's diagnosis did not define him. "He transcended it." In him, she found inspiration, though it would take a steep downturn for her to see her way up. Flatlining The sicker a person with cystic fibrosis gets, the more work they need to do to stay relatively well -- and the harder it is to do that work. It's enough to make some "CFers," as Claire calls them, stop trying. She gets it because she was once there. "It's not that I wanted to die," she said. "But I didn't know how to live." At 12, she feared that she was surviving just to survive. During a hospital stay, she had become close friends with Vanessa, another girl with cystic fibrosis. CFers aren't supposed to be together, as they carry bacteria that can be deadly if shared. But these two girls connected at a safe distance, doing art projects across the room while wearing protective masks. They made disco balls for the nursing station out of crushed CDs and glue, shared an understanding and a sense of humor and, over the course of a year and a half, a deep friendship. And then, Vanessa died. Bereft and facing a lifetime of treatments, Claire asked herself, "Why am I doing this?" Claire and her sister, Elanore Nordquist, cuddle the night before Claire moves out of the house. One of the things Claire appreciates most about Elanore is that she's never treated Claire like a sick person. So she began to lie, saying she took her medications and treatments when she didn't. For a year, her health slipped, and she said no one could figure out why. Claire, who'd always peppered her doctors and nurses with questions, knew the language and how to trick everyone. The day after her 13th birthday, a straightforward surgery to deal with acid reflux spiraled into chaos. She contracted a blood infection that attacked her lungs. She could feel them failing. As her oxygen levels plummeted, she began hallucinating. In a moment of clarity, she thought, "I don't want to actually die. I want to see what happens in life. I want to see where it goes." She was placed in a medically induced coma, intubated and hooked up to an oscillator, a machine that gently puffed air into her fragile lungs. No child with CF had successfully come off an oscillator, doctors told her parents. Claire says she was given a 1% chance of survival. She flatlined twice. Her little sister was 6 at the time. Elanore remembers a social worker talking to her before she went in -- "all sanitized and in a gown" -- to see Claire. "They told me to say goodbye," Elanore said. "They told me 'she's probably not going to wake up.' " A winter wonderland There was no white light. Instead, Claire transported herself to a place she'd never been: Alaska. Her subconscious journey began beneath ice water, she says. When she surfaced, she peered up at a mountain of snow. She sat amid ice-crystal-covered pine trees, floated on ice sheets while looking up at stars and hung out in a woodland house where animals streamed in to visit her. After her coma, Claire traveled to Sitka, Alaska, the place she believes she subconciously visited. Claire remained in a coma for more than two weeks. When she woke up, she learned that her dream world had unfolded while she had been submerged in an ice bath to bring down her fever. Though conscious again, she couldn't walk, sit up or hold silverware. She had to wear diapers. Her mom called her "Grandpa," a memory that still makes her laugh. "My body had no reserves left," she said. "It was kaput." In the many months she worked to get stronger, she found renewed purpose. "I feel like she had a spiritual experience," said her mom, Melissa Nordquist Yeager. "She came out inspired to help others." Finding meaning by giving back Claire entered the world the way she lives: boldly. Yeager was overdue to give birth to her firstborn when a routine ultrasound morphed into a scene of terror. She watched the doctor's face as he studied the screen. He ducked out and returned with another doctor. They told her that something was wrong with the baby and that Yeager had to be induced immediately. Claire was born with meconium ileus, a bowel obstruction that is a telltale sign of CF. Her bowel had ruptured, leaving her belly protruded, and she was whisked off for the first of many surgeries. "The prognosis was five years," Yeager said, "and that was a maybe." Claire spent the next seven weeks in neonatal intensive care. Her father, John Wineland, recalls peering down at his daughter as she screamed amid the medical equipment and tubes. Their eyes locked. "It's going to be OK," he remembers telling her. "We're in this together." Just like that, Claire's parents, who then lived in Austin, Texas, were jolted from naiveté. Claire has spent a quarter of her life in the hospital, mostly at Long Beach Memorial Medical Center in California, where her medical team is just like family. Raising a daughter with CF "has consumed most of my attention, most of my life," said Yeager, who now lives in Seal Beach, California. She and Wineland, of Santa Monica, never married and decided to split when Claire was 3, but they remained close friends and have continued to tackle Claire's care together. With Claire in the hospital two or three months a year, Yeager never felt that she could build a career. She lost a handful of jobs and quit others as hospital stays dictated. She'd take the day shifts with Claire while Wineland took nights. He'd hunker down next to Claire in the hospital, watch movies with her at 3 a.m. when she couldn't sleep, and head to work in the morning. All the while, Claire's parents -- and, by extension, Claire -- were surrounded by friends. They'd come to the hospital with meals, stick around when her parents couldn't, help rally the family and manage their lives. They also helped make Claire more outgoing and sociable, her dad says. Claire grew up knowing that she and her parents were fortunate, that too many families lacked the support they had. After waking from her 16-day coma, Claire proposed starting an organization to offer financial and emotional help to others navigating life with CF. Whether it's covering rents, mortgages, insurance premiums or car payments, Claire's Place Foundation aims to relieve pressure when CFers are hospitalized so families can focus on what matters most. Not long ago, it even helped find an apartment for a homeless CFer who was floating between shelters. What started as "a side project to celebrate (Claire's) life and survival became a passion of all of ours," said Yeager, who serves as the executive director. And for Claire, the foundation changed everything. "All throughout my teenage years, I was able to hold on to the foundation as a means to remind me that I had value," she said. "It's important for people who are sick to feel empowered. It gives them reason to take care of themselves." Don't touch her sushi In high school, Claire launched The Clairity Project , a website offering insight into her life, including videos that became popular on YouTube. She offered honest talk with a smile about dying, life expectancy, even the perks of being sick. She gave tips on how to interact with sick people, answered questions she's often asked and introduced her family . She and her father, on guitar, performed together, singing Bob Dylan's "Knockin' on Heaven's Door." She stepped away from making videos after no longer seeing eye-to-eye with a production company that got involved. Instead, she decided to focus on what she could control and feel good about: the foundation and her speaking engagements. She also embarked on a new phase: Since graduating high school, she's lived on her own with a roommate in Venice Beach. A 2015 trip to Europe with childhood friend Alicia Schomer, who says Claire has changed her: "I'm not as terrifed of the thought of death anymore, but I am terrified of not living life to the fullest." It can be hard for any parent when a child leaves the nest, but for Claire's mom, the transition has been even more fraught. Yeager knows how much work goes into Claire's care and worries that her daughter won't ask for help. "I'm happy for her, and I know she's capable," her mother said. "But I just see how sick she's getting." A year ago, Claire was at 50% lung capacity, Yeager says. Today, she's at 30%. She must take antibiotics to beat back recurring infections, which have become resistant to most of the drugs. And when she turned 18 and could decide for herself, Claire announced that she wasn't interested in being on the list for a double lung transplant. "I had to be honest," she said. "It's not for me and never has been." Though transplants can extend a life, they're no cure. She'd have to live on steroids, which she hates taking. She'd run the risk of developing new issues when she's used to the ones she has. Plus, her body could reject the new lungs. "And you can't eat sushi afterwards. That's a no," quipped Claire, who says she'd spend hundreds of dollars a month on sushi alone, if she could. Therapies developed in trials are now helping many CFers, according to the She insists that she's not giving up, though. Instead of opting for a transplant, she's holding out hope for a cure. If she got new lungs, she says, she wouldn't qualify for drugs in development.Therapies developed in trials are now helping many CFers, according to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation , and eventually, with other clinical trials now underway, as many as 95% of CFers could benefit. Her decision was a blow to her parents. They've had to accept that she won't pursue an option that could give her another 10 years. "Just think of it as insurance, even if you don't want to do it," her mom pleaded at first. "Get on the list so you can change your mind." But Yeager, no matter how uncomfortable it makes her, knows to trust her daughter's intuition. "She has a relationship with her body that is sacred," explains her dad, who, like Claire, is a practicing Buddhist. Claire's thinking, he said: "This is the body I came in with. This is the body I'm going out with." And as her father, "I have to live with it." Claire, unplugged Claire is Wineland's only child. He says she's helped him become a better person. He's learned "to not be afraid of what hasn't happened yet" and believes that Claire is exactly how she's supposed to be. He's learned to "love what is." At 51, he finds comfort in meditation and yoga, which Claire practiced for years, before her coma. Wineland is a life and relationship coach. Together, he and Claire have explored ways to grow spiritually. When Claire was 10, he says, she walked on fire at a retreat run by motivational speaker Tony Robbins. He's had to figure out healthy ways to deal with pain, even to see the beauty in it. "When you don't know what's going to happen to your only child," he says, "it can be pretty debilitating." Claire's parents, Melissa Nordquist Yeager and John Wineland, split when Claire was 3 but remain close friends and partners when it comes to her care. Humor has also helped him cope. When there's a long line at a restaurant, he says, he'll sometimes send her to the front of the line coughing to play "the sick-kid card." Yeager too marvels at what Claire's done for her. She says her daughter's aura and energy lift those around her, making Claire "a force of nature." During a recent hospital stay, mother and daughter were talking about death, a subject they don't shy away from. "After you die, you're closer to everyone you love, because you're part of everything," Yeager remembers Claire saying. The words were a gift, a reminder that her daughter's essence will remain always, even after she's gone. "If and when it does happen," Yeager said, "I'm never going to forget her saying that." Elanore, Claire's only sibling, is more no-nonsense. She never treated Claire differently, a fact Claire has always treasured. "She couldn't care less that I was sick, which I loved," Claire says. "It was refreshing." When she was younger, Elanore cared so little that sometimes she'd even unplug Claire's oxygen without telling anyone. "We wrestled a lot," Claire remembers with a laugh. "She'd unplug it to make me tired so she could win." She gets how sick Claire is today. Still, she doesn't see Claire as a sick person. "She's just a person," Elanore says. "She's not all-knowing. She's still figuring it out, like a lot of people. ... She needs the freedom to be a 20-year-old." 'It's OK to feel pain' Though Claire had been attending Santa Monica College, part of her freedom meant putting school on hold. "Truth be told, I probably wouldn't make it to graduation," she said. "I feel my body changing, and I had to make an executive decision." Instead, she's focusing on what she can accomplish now -- including a new partnership with Zappos for Good to make hospitals more, well, hospitable. She's designing the renovation and decoration of a playroom and intensive care rooms at the Children's Hospital of Nevada at UMC in Las Vegas, which Zappos will pay for. The partnership began after Claire addressed about 2,000 people at the company in November. Calling her "super inspiring," Zappos CEO Tony Hsieh said, "I'm pretty sure she brought tears to most of the people in the room." What her Zappos audience didn't know that day was how awful Claire felt. Over the past couple years, she's had more bad days than good. And in Claire's world, that can't stop her. If she bowed out whenever she felt under the weather, she says, she'd never accomplish a thing. It's like that again today as she sits in the green room in Encinitas, the TEDx audience awaiting her talk. The venue is a large meeting space behind a vegan restaurant. Attendees sip kombucha on tap and exchange hugs that last extra beats. When someone asks whether there's a yoga instructor in the room, they raise their hands en masse. Outside in the hallway are pieces of self-help literature, an announcement for a festival "dedicated to the Divine Goddess" and business cards for a spiritual medium. When I peek in on Claire, I grow worried. The room is dark, and her eyes are closed, her arms folded across her belly. I fight every protective instinct to whisk her off and take her home. Instead, she rallies. As the emcee introduces her, Claire stands tall, showing no sign of pain or discomfort. She strides toward the stage amid applause, her smile wide. If not for the pumping oxygen concentrator slung over her shoulder, strangers might not suspect that anything's wrong. She jumps in and talks about the fear she had when she first spoke publicly, the guilt she felt whenever she landed in the hospital, the isolation CFers often feel. She also speaks of what inspires her and her understanding that illness shouldn't stop anyone from living proudly. "It's OK to feel pain and experience it," she says. "I'm not trying to fix myself. My suffering has given me so much." For about 18 minutes, she sets out to change how people think. When she's done, the crowd stands and applauds. Some audience members hoot and holler. As she weaves through the crowd toward the exit, I chase after her, overhearing whispers like, "What a gem." It's clear people would like to talk to her, hug her, corner her for conversation. She shoots me a glance, though, that says, "Let's get out of here." Claire has given all she can, and she knows she'll pay a price. The price In the weeks that follow, Claire can't shake that infection. Then, in mid-June, an ambulance rushes her to the ER: Her fever is back at 103, her heart rate is at 185, and her white blood cell count is 30,000. Claire's oxygen saturation levels are falling, a sign of lung failure. Not since the scare that landed her in a coma six years earlier has the situation felt so dire, her mother says. For a few days, Claire only gets worse. She's transported to Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, where the staff feels like family. She has sepsis and a severe case of pneumonia and spends a week in intensive care. Doctors come close to putting her on a ventilator when one of the only two antibiotics that still work for her kick in. "I thought this was it," Yeager says. "It was an eye-opener for all of us." It's too early to know how much of a toll this setback will take on Claire, who is expected to head home from the hospital Wednesday. "We think of Claire as invincible," her mother says, "and this was a reminder." A reminder of how important it is to live each moment fully. A reminder of the lessons Claire still hopes to teach before it's too late.
(CNN) As two Delaware teens recovering from pesticide poisoning struggle to eat, walk and sit up on their own, an investigation into what went wrong highlights failures on several levels, including lax oversight and a history of corruption at the U.S. Virgin Islands government agency in charge of exterminators. The teens and their parents fell gravely ill and suffered seizures during a March vacation to St. John. The family was exposed to methyl bromide, a restricted-use pesticide. Recovery from their nerve damage has been slow and agonizing for the whole family, but it's been the worst for the boys. The brothers were in medically induced comas for weeks. They are now conscious, family attorney James Maron said, but they are barely able to move. Six months after the horrifying incident, their father, Steve Esmond, is slowly getting better as well, but suffers from severe tremors, struggles to speak and can't turn the pages of a book, Maron said. "Neurologically, it's like being in a torture chamber," Maron said. Esmond and his boys are mentally "strong as an ox" and "100% cognizant," but they are trapped in bodies badly damaged by the nerve agent, Maron said. Prior to the incident, the boys were athletic stars at their schools. The older brother had big prospects playing lacrosse and was already touring colleges. Their mother, Teresa Devine, had less exposure to the toxic gas than the rest of the family and has made the strongest recovery, but she spends her days and nights keeping vigil over her boys. What is methyl bromide? Methyl bromide is a restricted-use pesticide that the U.S. EPA has considered "highly toxic" for more than two decades. Inhalation of methyl bromide, even short-term, can cause severe lung damage, while long-term inhalation can lead to "neurological effects." Studies on lab animals caused degenerative lesions in the nasal cavity and had effects on the testicles of male animals. Source: EPA "They're extreme fighters, and that's why they're hanging on," Maron said. The family was on vacation at the Sirenusa resort on St. John when two employees of the local Terminix fumigated the villa below theirs March 18 with methyl bromide, even though it is not approved for residential use. After the family became ill, the Environmental Protection Agency found traces of the lethal gas in their villa. The exposure was so significant inside the treated unit that 6 weeks after the family fell ill, dangerous amounts of methyl bromide were still being detected inside the rental villa, according to EPA documents. Methyl bromide is incredibly toxic to humans, said Dr. Reynold Panettieri Jr., the deputy director for the Center of Excellence in Environmental Toxicology. "I would say the prognosis, at best, is guarded," said Panettieri, who has not personally treated the family. "As we know the victims have been off ventilators and they've been improved. But if that dose, even though it appeared to be acute, was over (a period of) hours, the damage to the nerves and to the brain itself may render it irreversibly damaged." Maron said Terminix has agreed to enter mediation, done by Ken Feinberg, who negotiated the settlements for the victims of the September 11 attacks. Mediation begins September 28. What went wrong New details are emerging about the incident that so drastically sickened the Esmonds. Six others on the islands had mild symptoms of methyl bromide exposure -- headache, fatigue, cough and shortness of breath -- after the botched March fumigation of the Sirenusa resort. Four of those were emergency workers who helped the Esmond family, according to the EPA. CNN has also learned that the day the pesticide was applied, an exterminator tented and taped off the treated area of the resort villa with 6-millimeter plastic that the gas should not have been able to penetrate. A source familiar with the investigation speculated that the plastic could have come loose, and the chemical perhaps traveled through the air-conditioning system. According to documents received from the EPA in a FOIA request, the EPA also speculated about a gap in the ceiling of the lower unit's air conditioning unit, speculating that the gas may have traveled to the upper unit. Even so, methyl bromide should not have been used on a residential building in the first place. JUST WATCHED Banned pesticide allegedly sickens family at resort Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Banned pesticide allegedly sickens family at resort 01:37 The pesticide manufacturer, Chemtura, told CNN that an odor is supposed to be added to methyl bromide before any use, much like the artificial odor added to natural gas so that people can detect it. But family attorney Maron said no odor was added in this instance. Terminix will not comment on that part of the investigation. CNN previously reported that methyl bromide was used across the islands on different occasions by Terminix. Other pest control companies on the Virgin Islands were found in possession of methyl bromide and officials said they are checking records to see whether it was used improperly. Ken Mapp, the governor of the Virgin Islands, said it was. "What these companies did or appear to have been doing is clearly a violation of the law, and they'll be held accountable for it," Mapp said. He said he learned his own complex was fumigated with methyl bromide in 2013. CNN Investigations Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. Methyl bromide is highly restricted because it's dangerous to the environment. It's only legal to use for agriculture. But pesticide experts tell CNN it's very effective on the powderpost beetle, which bores into wood and is prevalent throughout the islands. So even though it's not legal to use it in residences, some pesticide companies apparently fumigated with it anyway, according to Mapp. Sources tell CNN that there were two Terminix employees on the job at Sirenusa the day the Esmond family was poisoned. One, who was a Terminix salesman, has left the company. His job that day, sources say, was simply to help carry supplies. Jose Rivera, the applicator who used methyl bromide, was the branch manager of the corporate-owned location, and had been in the pest control business for at least a decade. He is on administrative leave. Neither employee has been charged with any crime, and neither would comment to CNN on the case. Workers who fumigate with methyl bromide are supposed to have special training, and they're supposed to file paperwork with the EPA, detailing how they plan to apply it, every time methyl bromide is purchased. But the key section of those EPA documents was left blank in this case, according to the family's attorney. The EPA says the forms stay with the distributor, who reports back to the EPA on how much methyl bromide has been sold on a quarterly basis. The EPA says this particular distributor "was not to our knowledge collecting applicator certifications and certainly was not reporting to EPA as a distributor." The distributor has not responded to CNN's requests for comment. The EPA, Terminix, and the local Department of Planning and Natural Resources all declined to specifically respond to that allegation, citing an ongoing investigation. A pattern of problems In the U.S. Virgin Islands, allegations of lax oversight by the Department of Planning and Natural Resources surfaced long before the Esmond family fell ill. The DPNR is the local environmental agency, which receives funding from and is regulated by the EPA. The DPNR has been riddled with corruption for years, and the EPA inspector general recently found deficiencies with the department related to management and oversight in several areas. In May of 2014, the EPA designated it "high risk," saying the agency "does not meet management standards." In addition, nearly $100,000 in federal funding that the DPNR received to train local pest control workers did not go toward training. That meant there were no classes whatsoever on the island of St. Thomas, where Terminix is based, according to the former director of the USVI Pesticide Safety Education Program, Joe Williamson. Pesticide's dangerous history The EPA has long known of the toxic effects of methyl bromide, and in 2005 banned it except for certain agricultural applications; before the ban took effect, there were several serious incidents involving Terminix. A Pennsylvania woman sued, alleging her 57-year-old son was killed after Terminix fumigated his Lancaster, Pennsylvania, apartment in April 2004. Court papers from the case show that Terminix said it lost the paperwork recording which chemicals were used. Terminix fought the case, saying his death was unrelated, that he had a pre-existing condition, and that no methyl bromide was used. The case settled in 2008. Also in 2006, Terminix pleaded guilty to a criminal assault charge after nine employees in New Jersey were overcome by methyl bromide fumes. The attorney general said Terminix was negligent for not giving the workers proper protective gear or training for removing tarps from stacks of cocoa bean pallets that had been fumigated. Terminix had to pay a $300,000 criminal fine, on top of a $80,000 civil fine. Pesticide applicators are supposed to be retrained every year in order to keep their certification. But because there were no available classes on the island, pest control workers were being recertified without being retrained, Williamson said. That was the case with Rivera, who applied the pesticide at Sirenusa. He was recertified in 2014 without taking additional training -- though Williamson says that even if the classes had been available, Rivera would not have been trained to use methyl bromide, because it's not supposed to be used indoors. The EPA said it was assured by the DPNR that the funds are in the process of being allocated correctly. The EPA also said that Rivera's certification history is under review by the DPNR. But this is just the latest problem with the DPNR. According to the Department of Justice, three DPNR officials -- a former commissioner and two directors -- have been sentenced to jail terms since 2008. That year, former Commissioner Dean C. Plaskett was sentenced to nine years for receiving kickbacks in awarding local government contracts. And in 2014, a director pleaded guilty to using his position to engage in illegal drug trafficking while he was head of environmental enforcement at DPNR. He was sentenced to 70 months in federal prison. But Mapp, who took office as governor of the territory in January, told CNN the misuse of methyl bromide had nothing to do with governmental failures but was the result of bad decisions on the part of the pest control companies. "It occurred because someone was cutting corners, thought they could enhance their profit margin and thought they could get away with it. And apparently in my own residence, someone had been getting away with it for quite some time," Mapp said. Williamson said the EPA bears responsibility as well. "EPA really needs to take the leadership on this, look at the mistakes that have happened here. And the very most important thing for them to do is to quit allowing methyl bromide and these other fumigants to be available to just about anybody with the certification card," Williamson said. EPA officials tell CNN that they are working on proposals to strengthen training requirements and certifications for people who use methyl bromide. What's changed Since this incident, the EPA and Terminix have done national inventories, checking for improper methyl bromide use, sources said. The EPA also had a meeting with every region in the nation about the case and sent out a safety alert to all states and territories, asking for "increased vigilance of distribution and use of methyl bromide to ensure the product is not being applied in residential settings." In a statement, Terminix said: "All of us continue have this family in our thoughts and prayers. We are cooperating with the authorities and conducting our own thorough investigation." The company also said it has taken steps to ensure this doesn't happen again, including halting fumigation in the U.S. Virgin Islands, reinforcing policies with employees and speaking to technicians about the specific products they use and how they're applied.
Winston-Salem, North Carolina (CNN) The protesters chant in English, then in Spanish, as they belt out their rallying cry. "The people, united, will never be defeated!" "El pueblo, unido, jamás será vencido!" Winston-Salem's leaders are hours away from deciding whether to declare this a "welcoming city" for immigrants. And at a rally on the steps of City Hall, supporters of the measure are making their case one last time. "Now do it in Arabic!" someone shouts. Demonstrators cheer as a woman wearing a hijab approaches the microphone. But then, everyone freezes. A counter-protester paces in front of them, briefly sending a chill through the crowd. Some people laugh. Others look stunned. The woman is wearing a bright red T-shirt that says "TRUMP 2016." She has a matching sparkly flower in her hair. She doesn't say anything. And she doesn't have to. The hand-written cardboard signs she's carrying make her message clear: "President Trump says NO! Obey the Law!" "A Sanctuary City is against the LAW of our land." Two views of the future Valeria Rodriguez Cobos glares at the woman in the Trump T-shirt. She's frustrated to see her getting so much attention, even though the woman is far outnumbered by pro-immigrant protesters. Rodriguez Cobos has been coming here for months as part of a group of activists pushing for Winston-Salem to become a sanctuary city. The 25-year-old's mission: using her voice for those who have none. She has a green card, but most of her friends and family don't. And as she stands on the steps of City Hall tonight, she knows she's carrying the weight of thousands of people who need help, but aren't here simply because they're too scared to show up. The neighbors who panicked when they saw a white van circling their apartment complex, terrified that ICE agents were about to swoop in. The children at her church who went running when police neared their playground. The friend who just asked her to take care of her kids if she gets deported. The counter-protester winds her way into the building. A demonstrator waving a sign saying "HUMAN RIGHTS" follows close behind. The crowd resumes chanting, louder than before. A proposed resolution declaring Winston-Salem a "welcoming city" brought a contentious debate to City Hall and drew sharp criticism from state lawmakers. From inside, Joan Fleming can hear them. And it's making her uneasy. She thinks back to riots she lived through as a child growing up in the 1960s. Her father was a police officer then. She thought of him as she came to City Hall today, carrying an American flag tote bag stuffed with petitions. He raised her to respect the importance of law and order. Back then, when violence flared during protests, she'd wait by the door of her family's home in Kinston, North Carolina. Every night she feared her father wouldn't make it back alive. Now as she sits inside the City Council's meeting room, those fears have been replaced by new ones -- growing concerns about what Fleming believes could be just around the corner, and what she feels is lurking in plain sight. She's already warned the City Council about what she fears will happen if they pass the "welcoming city" proposal: Felons will flock to Winston-Salem. "There are thousands of chances per month for you or your loved one to be killed by a suspected illegal drunk driver," she told officials at last month's meeting. Tonight she hopes they'll remember what she said. Echoes of a larger fight This was the scene on Monday, April 17, in one corner of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, as a controversial vote loomed. But it could be anywhere in America in 2017, as increasingly divisive debates over immigration expose feelings simmering beneath the surface. President Donald Trump made cracking down on illegal immigration a focal point of his administration. He took steps to retaliate against so-called sanctuary cities, vowing to cut off funding to local governments that don't cooperate with the feds. He doubled down on his message that undocumented immigrants can be a danger to communities, creating an office focused on victims of immigrant crime Critics say Trump is highlighting crime as a pretext for plans to kick out as many undocumented immigrants as possible, regardless of whether they pose a threat. It's too soon to say whether these early numbers will translate into a trend. But spend a day in this Southern city, where the salvos of national political battles echo loudly, and you'll see signs of a deepening shift beyond what's measured with statistics in spreadsheets. Tensions are high. So are suspicions. And there's one thing both sides have in common: fear. Sending a message At first, Dan Besse thought his resolution declaring Winston-Salem a welcoming city would sail to approval. The city already prides itself on being a place that's made immigrants feel at home. Industrial, manufacturing and construction jobs, plus a low cost of living, made Winston-Salem an attractive destination. Besse is an attorney who's been on Winston-Salem's City Council since 2001. He thought his proposal wouldn't rock the boat much because it wasn't creating new rules or overturning any old ones. But he'd heard about mounting fears for immigrants in his city -- about parents who were too scared to take their children to doctor's appointments or leave them in after-school programs, about threats to local mosques. And he wanted to send a symbolic message. "A lot of folks don't feel safe," he said, "and they really need this kind of reassurance that their local elected representatives are on their side." Dan Besse, a Democrat on Winston-Salem's City Council, saw his "welcoming city" resolution as a palatable compromise. Instead, it became a flashpoint for the national immigration debate. So at a February meeting, Besse unveiled a resolution that he says intended to do just that. It was a compromise move that skirted the word "sanctuary" and some of the more controversial measures activists had proposed, such as a pledge to limit cooperation with federal law enforcement. Among its proclamations: "Whereas, the current national environment of excessive fear and suspicion directed by some toward immigrants, refugees, and other newcomers calls for cities like Winston-Salem to reaffirm our commitment to providing a welcoming and inclusive community for all." In this left-leaning city with a City Council where seven of the eight members are Democrats, it was the kind of message that sounded like an easy sell. Maybe a few years ago, or even a few months ago, it would have been. Besse's proposal cleared a committee and seemed to be gaining steam among his colleagues. But it wasn't long before it sparked an uproar. First local Republicans rallied against it. Then state elected officials took aim. At a meeting in Raleigh, they told Winston-Salem to bury the welcoming city measure or risk losing funding. "There will be consequences if Winston-Salem does this," one state senator warned 'Like a rattlesnake' As she gets ready for the vote, Joan Fleming sits at her kitchen table, staring at her laptop screen. A wood carving of the continental United States hangs behind her, near metal sculpted into cursive lettering that says "Faith" and "Love." A magnet on her refrigerator says, "Friends don't let friends vote Democrat." The lifelong Republican is no stranger to rallying around a cause. Ever since she moved to Winston-Salem in 1990, she's worked for candidates and campaigns, from Sen. Jesse Helms' 1996 reelection battle to North Carolina's 2012 amendment banning same-sex marriage. As she sits at her computer and prepares for a vote she's very worried her side might lose, she glides her mouse across the elephant on her mousepad that says "Grand Old Party." Fleming's phone rings. It's someone she hopes will be at tonight's meeting. And she wants to make sure they've signed her petition. "I've put it on my Facebook about 2,500 times. If you haven't seen it, you must be living under a rock," she says. "I don't know how to put it out there any other way." Joan Fleming says she can't understand why anyone would want to label Winston-Salem a welcoming city. "I wonder their real reason for why they want to bring felons into our city and say it's the right thing to do," she says. Beside her, she has copies of several recent arrest reports -- proof, she says, that being too lax about illegal immigration is endangering people in the area. Is it unfair to paint an entire group based on the most severe crimes committed by a handful of people? Fleming doesn't think so. She suspects the amount of crime connected to illegal immigration is under-reported. And even one crime, she feels, is one crime too many. "It's a life. It's a rape," she says. "If we hadn't been negligent in letting them in here, it wouldn't have happened." She resents it when critics call her and others who oppose Winston-Salem's proposed welcoming city measure hateful or racist. Fleming says there's nothing hateful about supporting legal immigration and standing firmly against illegal immigration. "I might like a rattlesnake," she says, "but I don't want them in my living room. I lock my doors at night." If she were a few years younger, Fleming, who's in her 60s, says she'd head to the Mexican border and build the wall herself. Collecting ammunition Instead, Fleming is spending Monday afternoon on the road, driving around Winston-Salem's suburbs as she picks up copies of petitions. The vote is only a few hours away, and she knows every signature counts. She heads down a hilly country road, past grazing horses and Baptist churches and an apartment complex called Plantation Place, to collect a stack of papers left for her. The petitions are on top of a Buick parked in a carport with a "Make America Great Again" bumper sticker. She stops in a Chick-fil-A parking lot near a strip mall to get another stack from a friend who's fallen ill and won't be able to make it to tonight's meeting. Fleming doesn't live inside the city limits. Her home is about a 20-minute drive away, near a golf course in Advance, North Carolina. But most of her family lives in the city. And Fleming says anything that happens inside Winston-Salem will spread. Fleming's lived outside Winston-Salem for several years in suburban Advance, North Carolina. But she fears decisions the city makes will affect residents all over the region. "What about the Americans?" she says. "Who's protecting us?" She's heading to City Hall armed with a tote bag full of testimonials from others who share her views: "I will no longer feel safe as a single female if this happens." "The safety of our city and our children is at stake." "Our city is being overrun with aliens. I notice my own neighborhood is being flooded with immigrants. ... I don't feel safe letting my grandchildren play outside unless I am with them. Not the America my children grew up in." Loud and clear As they chant on the steps outside City Hall, the protesters are sending a very different message: "No ban, no wall, sanctuary for all." "Fund educations, not deportations." "Say it loud, say it clear, immigrants are welcome here." "Hey ya'll," Valeria Rodriguez Cobos says into the microphone, smiling at the crowd. Rodriguez Cobos was only a year and a half old when her parents brought her to the United States from their home in Oaxaca, Mexico. For 22 years, she was undocumented. Like many of her family members, she lived in the shadows, terrified that the life she was trying to build could dissolve in an instant. But the 25-year-old is a permanent resident now. Several years ago she was able to petition for legal residency under the Violence Against Women Act after surviving an abusive relationship. Today she's wearing a black T-shirt with bold white letters on it that say, "free." Legal immigration status has brought some stability, but she says it's impossible to feel secure when almost everyone you know is still at risk. Valeria Rodriguez Cobos says she's trying to use her voice to help people who are too scared to speak out. "Deportations are happening," she says. "People here in Winston don't talk about that. They're afraid." Rodriguez Cobos chokes up as she tells the crowd how privileged she feels to have a green card. "It's something I know my family still doesn't have," she says. "So for me, the fight is not over until we're all safe." A woman who works with refugees describes the harrowing stories they've told her about what happened before they fled their homes. A Wake Forest law professor explains that there's nothing illegal about the resolution the City Council is finally about to vote on. Besse tells the crowd that whatever happens to his resolution tonight doesn't really matter. The important thing, he says, is continuing community activism, standing up for what's right and not letting lawmakers in Raleigh dictate the way the city handles its affairs. "We cannot afford to capitulate to bullying tactics and intimidation, telling us not to speak up and out on behalf of those who are marginalized in our communities." Pointing toward home Lori Apple watches from a few feet away, wearing a sparkling American flag lapel pin on her jean jacket. The protesters' words quickly get under the 60-year-old physical therapist's skin. They seem to be fanning the flames of emotions, she says, rather than relying on facts. Apple, the head of a local Republican women's association, says the welcoming city resolution quickly drew fire from many people in her party. It's clear, she says, that the measure is a thinly veiled attempt to turn Winston-Salem into a sanctuary city. That's extremely unwise, she says, given vows by Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to yank federal funding from local jurisdictions that don't cooperate with immigration enforcement efforts. And it's not just federal officials who are threatening to fight back against local measures, she says. State lawmakers in North Carolina outlawed sanctuary cities back in 2015. Then-Gov. Pat McCrory signed the measure in nearby Greensboro. And now, legislators in Raleigh are weighing ways to punish local governments that take sanctuary steps. But Apple says the concerns she and others share aren't just about the millions of dollars Winston-Salem could stand to lose. She says she's worried about her family -- about the spots they could lose in college, about extra time they could be stuck waiting in emergency rooms, about the ways crime could go up and terrorists could slip in. "I have children and I am concerned with the safety of our community," she says. "The loud voices of a few drown out the quiet voices of good, hard-working Americans who are not in favor of these kinds of measures." Lori Apple says the US should approach immigration the way she handles her home. "It makes sense to have a wall," she says, "because I have a door protecting my house." To sum up her views on immigration, Apple uses her three-bedroom house in Lewisville, about 15 minutes outside Winston-Salem, as a metaphor. There are only so many items in the refrigerator to go around and only so many rooms in the house where there's space to live, she says. And of course, she keeps the doors locked at night and takes other steps, she says, to protect against intruders. Resources are scarce in America, Apple says. And the country needs to do what it can to keep out terrorists and keep its citizens safe. That's all the president and North Carolina's state lawmakers are trying to do, she says. "There's a lot of anger among people towards Trump," she says. "But he's trying to protect us." 'I show them safety' Across town, Carmen is just winding down her day cleaning houses. The 43-year-old undocumented immigrant can't make it to tonight's meeting. But she's been following news of the proposed "welcoming city" measure closely. And she's hoping the city will pass it. "It would be a safer city," she says. "It would be a relief for us." Carmen, who asked to be identified only by her first name to protect her family's safety, has trouble feeling safe these days. She's terrified that Trump will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, putting her three children in jeopardy. She's afraid jobs for immigrant workers are going to dry up. She's scared to go out at night. She senses people are giving her hostile glances in stores. Carmen, a 43-year-old undocumented immigrant, turns to her faith as times get tough. These days, she finds herself spending more time inside her Winston-Salem home. She's scared to be out late at night or go to parks with her family. It wasn't like this before, Carmen says. Trump, she says, has planted seeds of hatred across the country. But Carmen says she's seen love blossoming, too. One day people from a nearby church left signs outside for her church's largely immigrant congregation. "Somos uno en Cristo." We are one in Christ. "Dios te ama." God loves you. "Nos encantan nuestros vecinos." We love our neighbors. Carmen was overjoyed. She snapped photos of her children with the signs and keeps them on her phone. She's afraid of what will happen next, but she doesn't talk about it with her children. "I show another face to them. I show them safety," she says. "I don't show them the fear I feel." A tense wait Inside City Hall, Fleming is one of the first people to arrive in the City Council's meeting room. It's already tense. There aren't enough chairs. Some people whisper. Others glare suspiciously across the room. Fleming settles on a spot in the middle of the third row, then moves to the other side of the room after a man snarls at her for trying to save a seat. Rodriguez Cobos sits with a few friends on the floor of a room upstairs, their eyes trained on a TV screen. So many people have shown up to tonight's meeting that officials opened two overflow rooms to give them a chance to follow what's happening. Rodriguez Cobos' friends are US citizens whose parents are undocumented immigrants, and they're here to make their voices heard. But as they sit inside the imposing government building, Valeria can see that her friends are spooked. She tries to explain what she knows about city government to them. In between her business administration classes at Salem College and her work at a local credit union, she's been coming here regularly for months. The pomp and circumstance of a local government meeting is familiar now. The way the clerk reads out the name of each resolution. The way the council members make motions. She wants her friends to feel like they belong here. This is their city, too, even though sometimes it may not feel like it. As tonight's vote nears, they lean in toward the TV to listen. Caught off guard There's no fanfare as the clerk announces what's next on the agenda: "Item G-4, Adoption of the 'Winston-Salem is a Welcoming City' Resolution." This is the moment almost everyone in the building is waiting for. But the mayor makes a surprise announcement that catches many of them off guard. Besse, he says, has asked to withdraw the resolution from the night's agenda. "He's working on an alternative thought," the mayor tells the crowd. Rodriguez Cobos and her friends can't believe what they're hearing. She wants to run screaming into the meeting room. How can this be happening? Fleming feels frustrated too. Her rush to get signatures for a petition, her push to save seats inside for fellow Republicans who feel the same way she does -- all of it seems like a waste of time. A man rushes to the front of the room, yelling as he heads out the door: "Boo! Cowards!" In the public comment period that ends the meeting, speaker after speaker slams the City Council for letting worries about retribution from state and federal officials stop them from taking a stand. "What we heard today," one woman says, "was fear." One man says the move sets a dangerous precedent. "If you allow them to bully you all, then who will they come for next?" Another says he's tired of hearing people focus on crimes committed by immigrants. "There's people who look like me who ran people over. There's people who shot up schools who look like me. Should we deport all of them, too? Are we just going to use fear as our guiding principle?" Rodriguez Cobos is the last person to speak. She says she and others won't forget how the City Council backed down instead of standing up. "Elections are coming up," she says, "and people are paying attention." It's no coincidence that state lawmakers in Raleigh have tried to block the resolution, says Danny Timpona, who supports the measure. "They're scared of us coming together," he says. "They're scared we're paying attention." As Rodriguez Cobos walks to her car after the meeting, she looks over her shoulder. She's determined to keep speaking out, but she knows it makes her a target. Fleming walks quickly to her car, too. She fears crime is on the rise. And you never know who might be watching. The next battle But Besse maintains his proposal isn't dead. Instead, he says he's planning to bring it back in a different form. Pulling it from the agenda was a change in tactics, he says, but not a retreat. When he realized the welcoming city resolution wouldn't have enough support to pass, Besse says he withdrew the measure to avoid sending the wrong signal. These days, he's carrying a copy of a new document inside his jacket pocket as he walks around Winston-Salem. He's hoping to convince leaders from across the community to sign on. A joint statement from a broader group touting the city's welcoming nature, he says, will send a stronger message than any City Council resolution would. Rodriguez Cobos and other organizers with the Sanctuary City Coalition of Winston-Salem say their fight has only just begun. They'll be marching in an upcoming "day without immigrants" protest. And they're hoping to take more concrete steps to help protect an immigrant community under siege. One idea: emergency response teams that can report to areas where ICE arrests are taking place. Fleming picked up a "Make America Great Again" sign on a recent trip. She's thrilled Trump won and glad he's made cracking down on illegal immigration a priority. "If I weren't as old as I am," she says, "I would go build that wall." Fleming says she's keeping a close eye on the City Council in case the welcoming city measure comes up again. And she's going to keep canvasing for signatures on her petition opposing it. She's also working on promoting the local Republican women's club's next activity: a self-defense class. A family crisis At a church Bible study meeting in northern Winston-Salem, Carmen is looking for answers. The City Council meeting was a few days ago. She's still hoping officials will change their mind, and she wishes she'd been at City Hall to see what happened. She went once and loved the part where everyone stood together to say the Pledge of Allegiance. But this week, she's barely had any time to spare. She's overwhelmed with a crisis that's shaken her family. Her brother is in a detention center and could be days away from deportation. His devastated 10-year-old daughter is barely talking or eating. All she does is cry. They're taking her to a psychologist, but Carmen doesn't know what else to do as she waits for word on whether officials will reopen her brother's case. "I'm so worried," she tells the church group, tears streaming down her face. Carmen says it's sad to hear Winston-Salem's "welcoming city" resolution hasn't passed. "I don't know why they want to close the doors to us here," she says. The pastor offers a prayer for Carmen and others at the table. "God, we put our worries and our anguish in front of you. ... Touch the hearts of the authorities in this country," he says. "Touch the hardened hearts that they seem to have right now." Carmen bows her head. She prays for something she fears only God can give her now. Protection.
Last week, the Senate Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee voted to remove the random breath testing provision from Bill C-46, a controversial piece of impaired driving legislation. Bill C-46 was introduced in the House of Commons last spring by Jody Wilson-Raybould, the Minister of Justice for Canada. Among its sweeping changes to impaired driving legislation in the province was a provision removing the requirement that an officer form a reasonable suspicion of alcohol in the body before asking a driver to blow into a roadside breathalyzer. Instead, the police would be able to demand a sample at random from any driver. In testimony before the Senate Committee, numerous legal experts opined that this would have a disproportionate effect on people of colour, including Black and Indigenous Canadians, who are already more frequently targeted for random traffic stops and carding. Historically, the Supreme Court of Canada has found that random roadside breath testing violates the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Currently, for breath testing to proceed, there are three requirements: a reasonable suspicion to demand a sample; a need to conduct the test immediately; and the guarantee that results of the roadside test cannot be used as proof of impairment or blood alcohol level at trial. However, Bill C-46 would do away with all of these requirements except the prohibition on using the results as evidence in court. This would have a disproportionate effect on people of colour, including Black and Indigenous Canadians. The random breath testing provisions in Bill C-46 have been the subject of severe criticism from defence lawyers across Canada, the majority of whom appear to oppose the bill. Defence lawyers argued that these aspects of C-46 were unconstitutional and in violation of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms right to be secure against unreasonable search and seizure. Advocates in favour of random testing testified before the Senate, pointing to places where random breath testing is used and has been associated with a decline in impaired driving deaths. The debate appears to be focused around the balancing of Charter rights against the need to protect lives. For the Senate, the Charter won out. Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould. After passing third reading at the House of Commons, Bill C-46 was referred to the Senate for study. After hearing months of testimony from legal and constitutional experts, the Committee voted 6-5 in favour of removing the offending provision. One Senator abstained. Senator Denise Batters announced the amendment on her Twitter feed, with the following press release: In response to the Senate's action, Justice Minister Wilson-Raybould, however, indicated that she just did not care about the Senate's decision to remove the random testing provision. Her response to the vote was as follows: "Mandatory alcohol screening is the centrepiece of this legislation," she said. "We are determined to ensure that mandatory alcohol screening goes forward. Partisan politics has nothing to do with saving people's lives, and mandatory screening will save lives." The problem with the remarks of the Justice Minister is that they are not at all grounded in the work that the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee did. There was exhaustive study of the bill to determine whether random breath testing was a viable and constitutionally valid option in Canada. And in the end, the Charter rights of drivers won the day. The Liberal Government calls itself the Party of the Charter and champions itself as a leader in Charter rights and freedoms in this country. But behaving as though the Charter is an irrelevant consideration when the Senate has determined that it is not only relevant, but paramount, is completely inconsistent with those values. It was not just the fact that the bill created an obviously unconstitutional law that persuaded the Senators to scrap the provision. There was more to it than that. The Senate looked at its own investigation into court delays, which was commissioned after the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in R. v. Jordan that cases older than 18 months in provincial court and 30 months in Supreme Court will be stayed, absent exceptional circumstances. The Senate Chamber within Canada's Parliament Building. It is already the case, after all, that serious charges are being stayed due to a lack of court time. Impaired driving cases clogging up the courts have been identified as a contributing factor in those outcomes. And so there is much at stake in the constitutionality of this provision. It obviously affects the rights of drivers to be secure against unreasonable search and seizure. But it also affects the rights of people who want to access court services without lengthy delays. And it affects the rights of victims of crime, who are seeing their cases stayed due to court delays. And after considering the fact that challenges to this aspect of the legislation would tie up the courts for about a decade, coupled with the increased burden on the courts from a significant increase in impaired driving prosecutions, the Senate found that the ends did not justify the means. Particularly so where individuals with civil and family law cases are already facing increases in their wait times to access court resources as a result of the prioritization of criminal cases. Challenges to random testing would only increase their wait times in court. The Senate found that the ends did not justify the means. So announcing the intention to circumvent the Senate after it did its job, providing sober second thought to deeply flawed legislation, tends to read more like a petulant child stomping its feet than it does a reasoned approach to complex legal issues. There is a reason we have a Senate, and respect for their decisions about legislation should be encouraged. In circumstances like this, the House of Commons will have the opportunity to either adopt or reject the changes. If the changes made by the Senate are rejected, the bill goes back and forth until both sides can agree. It will be interesting to see how this plays out. But there is a lot more at stake in this bill, and in particular in the random breath testing provision than simply the rights of drivers. The changes made in this vote by the Senate are important. They show deference for individual constitutional rights and the rights of participants in the justice system. The House of Commons would be well-served to back down on this point. Also on HuffPost:
Knoxville, Tennessee (CNN) The sound of a heartbeat pulsates through the air, and a grainy image of a baby flashes on screen. Jessica Hill smiles from her chair in the ultrasound room. Gathered around are her doctor, nurse and best friend. They are all eager, anxious, excited -- and worried about the health of the baby. In that way, this ultrasound is like most. But what's happening in this room is anything but routine: Jessica, 28, is hooked on opioids and detoxing during pregnancy. Dr. Craig Towers is the pioneering -- and controversial -- obstetrician shattering the common medical belief that this approach could lead to the death of the fetus. Moments earlier, Jessica's baby underwent a stress test to see how she was progressing, a way to make sure the stress of detoxing is not harming the child. "She didn't like it at all," says Jessica, who is in her 35th week of pregnancy. Tell us your story Tell us your story of how you or a loved one is working through an addiction to opioids or other painkilling drugs, from successes to struggles. Text/WhatsApp us at +1-347-322-0415 "It means that she's paying attention to what's going on," says Towers, who specializes in high-risk pregnancies at the University of Tennessee Medical Center. Jessica admits to making many mistakes, but here, she is making what she says is the best choice of her life: getting clean for her baby. She also has an 8-year-old son who has been raised by her mom. She hopes detoxing will further heal their relationship. A tattoo above her heart reads "From pain comes strength." She wishes she could lean over her belly, put her lips by her daughter's head and whisper to her about life lessons. "I'm working on building our relationship and trying so hard. I mainly want her to know that I won't make those choices any more." Jessica marvels at the screen. "Is that her little face?" "Yeah, that's a cheek," Towers says. "She's got chubby cheeks," Jessica replies. Jessica Hill, 28, was hooked on opioids and wanted to get clean, but she was told that detoxing would kill her fetus. When Jessica first came to Towers four months ago, she was taking a standard opioid-based maintenance medication, called Subutex, meant to keep her from getting her fix from the street. She had been told at a drug maintenance clinic that detoxing would kill her fetus. When she went to a doctor who she hoped could deliver her child, Jessica was humiliated. She had informed the doctor she was taking Subutex to tamp down her urge for painkillers. The doctor, she says, told her they don't "take irresponsible patients." "I was just so upset, because they just shunned us away," she says. The maintenance clinic then referred her to the University of Tennessee Medical Center. Jessica first visited a doctor at the hospital's prenatal clinic in December and was introduced to Emily Katz, the substance abuse coordinator in Towers' office. Katz saw a young woman who needed help -- but, more important, wanted help. "We snatched her up," she says. "There was just a spark in her. When I told Jessica, 'I think we can help you,' tears just streamed down her face." It's now mid-March. Towers has weaned Jessica off the medication slowly, with Jessica making the hour-long trip from her home in Morristown to his office every two weeks, almost always accompanied by her best friend, Stephanie Moore. Today, Stephanie chimes in with cheerful jokes about the baby's stubbornness, similar to her mother's. In between visits, Jessica texts and phones Katz, who was motivated to help others after her brother died of an overdose. The two have become so close over the months that both say they're like twins separated at birth. Jessica has nicknamed Katz "Nurse Barbie" for her attractiveness and her straight blonde hair. On this day, Katz quietly observes during the ultrasound, making her show of support by just being there. Jessica went completely off the opioids over the past week, a critical juncture during any detoxification. She suffered through diarrhea and other ailments. Only once did she give into her urge, taking one Subutex pill. "It sucks," she says. In those down moments, Stephanie and Katz remind her why she's going through this: that the struggle is worth the pain. But even with all that Jessica has endured, there's no guarantee her baby will be free of the violent tremors and excruciating pain that marks those born to addicted mothers. About one in five women who detox in Towers' program still sees her baby suffer withdrawal after birth, depending on how early in pregnancy the mothers were able to become drug-free and how their bodies metabolize the opioids still in their systems. Dr. Craig Towers has helped more than 500 women detox during pregnancy: "It's the right thing to do." Towers assures Jessica that her baby will be safe if she continues to not use. With the due date a month away, he says he wants to begin seeing her twice a week to make sure she stays on track. Her pregnancy was not planned, and Jessica worries that child services could take her daughter away because of her history of drug abuse. "The only way they would take her from you is if you were using something off the street or if there's something in your drug screen that wasn't prescribed to you," Towers says. "That's why I just want to see you a lot, make sure you're doing OK, and if there's any issues, we prevent a relapse." The next few weeks will prove critical. Jessica will lean on this supportive cast: the doctor, her best friend and "Nurse Barbie." Towers knows all too well what's at stake. Three days earlier, an expectant woman who he hoped would enroll in his program was found dead of an overdose, the first such death this year in Knox County. Concerns over relapse risk Every 25 minutes in America, a baby is born in withdrawal from opioids . They shake violently, vomit constantly and scream incessantly. Upon arrival in this world, one of the first things the newborns are given is an opioid to lessen the intensity of their shakes. Delivery rooms have become overwhelmed, especially along the Appalachia corridor stretching from Ohio and West Virginia into Kentucky and down to this northeast corner of Tennessee. The average hospital stay for a baby suffering withdrawal lasts about 17 days, costing more than $66,000 per child, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Tennessee alone experienced a 15-fold increase in babies going through withdrawal from 2002 to 2012. And the numbers have continued to rise. How to treat these babies has become a matter of urgency among doctors, clinicians, researchers and social workers. Are we failing these newborns? What are we not doing that we should? Can more be done on the front end to prevent the shaking and vomiting? The University of Tennessee Medical Center sits amid the heart of America's opioid epidemic. Almost everyone agrees that the nation must tackle this issue with a comprehensive approach. But the opinions on what to do vary. Long-standing guidance from the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists on detoxification during pregnancy has been this: "Withdrawal from opioid use during pregnancy is associated with poor neonatal outcomes, including early preterm births or fetal demise, and with higher relapse rates among women." At a summit on prescription drug and heroin abuse in Atlanta in April, participants from across the country discussed the increasing number of babies going through withdrawal and how to best care for them and their mothers. Experts stressed the need for better treatment programs for pregnant women, especially in rural America. Detoxification during pregnancy wasn't considered a viable policy approach at the conference. Some experts said it would be careless -- even reckless. Even if detoxing were medically safe, they said, the risk of relapse was too great, putting newborns in danger as soon as they went home. Dr. Stephen Patrick of Vanderbilt University said that he likes Towers and admires his work but that there are too many questions. "My biggest worry about detoxing in pregnancy are rates of relapse," says Patrick, assistant professor of pediatrics and health policy at Vanderbilt and an attending neonatologist. Recent studies have found that women who use opioids have a 40% to 70% rate of relapse, Patrick said. "I would never say that detoxification may not be the right thing for an individual woman, in the right setting with the right supports," Patrick added. "It's just that overall, I find it worrisome because of relapse rates." One couldn't help but wonder: Why would a doctor stake his career on something so risky? 'We can win' Towers, 62, never expected to be a trailblazer in this field. He'd followed the protocol for nearly four decades: Never detox an expectant mother because of the possibility of "fetal demise," the clinical term for a stillbirth. But about the time he arrived at the University of Tennessee Medical Center seven years ago, the opioid epidemic hit. Women kept asking why they couldn't detox during pregnancy. Jessica says that getting clean for her baby is one of the best decisions she's ever made. "I hope our relationship always stays strong." He looked into the research, expecting to confirm everything he'd followed for years. "To my surprise," he says, "I found it came from two case reports." Those two cases in the 1970s set the course for doctors to advise against detoxification. Towers dug further and found that five other, mostly overlooked studies involving about 300 women had been done over a 23-year period beginning in the 1990s. Each indicated that detoxification didn't pose a risk to the fetus. He embarked on his own study and found detox to be safe. "Over the last six years, I've detoxed more than 500 women without a loss," he says. "There really is no data in the literature to support that detoxification will kill the baby. Like I said, it came from a propagation of two single case reports in the literature in the 1970s." Detoxification, he admits, is not for every woman. His patients have horrific back stories that too often include rape, physical abuse and generational addiction. "Each case is complicated," he says. "We never coerce anybody or shame them into detox. The patient has to be interested in this. Otherwise, they're not going to succeed." Like others, Towers worries about relapse. When he started his detoxification program, the rate of relapse among the participating mothers was more than 70%, compared with 40% and 60% for all people in addiction treatment nationwide. Four years ago, he hired Katz so women could stay in constant contact with his office throughout their pregnancies and for eight weeks after they leave the hospital. He hopes to increase that supervision time to six months to a year. But already, he says, the rate of relapse since adding the behavioral health component has dropped to around 17%. Not a single woman has fatally overdosed after going through his program. "Knock on wood," he says. He gives speeches across the country to spread the news of his research, and he meets with insurance companies in hopes they will pay for it. To deny women who want to get clean the opportunity to do so is wrong, he says, especially as they enter the crucial role of becoming a mother. "This is a treatable disorder, and we can win," he says. "Hopefully, one of these days, we'll change the protocol for the country. We just have to continue plugging away." And shouldn't the medical community try to stop generational addiction in the womb, he wonders, rather than allowing the cycle to continue? Towers never intended to be a trailblazer, but he says nothing is better than when a patient tells him, "You saved my life." CNN asked to follow one of Towers' patients during the detoxification process. Jessica agreed to share her story, but only in the confines of his office. She didn't want to draw attention in her small town and wanted to protect her son from cameras. "The main thing I want people to know is to take my testimony of where I was to where I am now," she says. "And maybe if it can help one person make a better decision, then it would be worth it." She calls Towers' office a "godsend" for getting her on the road to sobriety, something she says she could never do on her own. When she first came to his office, she was taking 8 milligrams a day of Subutex. Some days, she took twice that amount. She'd been told that her baby would die if she tried to detox, so she was following the maintenance therapy program prescribed to her by the previous clinic. She wept when Towers told her that if she stayed on that level of Subutex, her baby might suffer withdrawal in the weeks following birth. "I told him I wanted to be off of it, but I just didn't know how to be off of it," she says. "That's what started the whole thing of him helping me." Jessica works in an assisted-living community. She likes helping the elderly, speaking with them and hearing their life stories. She's pushed through days of feeling horrible and the terrible loneliness brought on by detoxification. "It's always that wage of war in your mind -- that you feel so crappy. It's so hard to try and do the right thing," she says. "You have those thoughts of, 'why have I done this?' " Her friend Stephanie has talked her off the ledge in moments of desperation. "When I want to make a stupid decision," Jessica says, "she yells at me." "I have a really good support system, but I had to choose to walk away from all the negative people in my life." Jessica has lost more than 10 friends to overdoses in recent years -- a stark reminder of the need to stay sober. Two 'great childhoods' diverged Jessica and Stephanie met at church 21 years ago. Jessica was 8; Stephanie was 9. Stephanie immediately stole Jessica's Bible, starting their relationship off with a tussle. But soon, a friendship blossomed. They sang in a choir in their hometown of Morristown and took up leadership positions in church. Through youth group, they went on vacations to places like Destin, Florida, and Dollywood. Jessica's best friend, Stephanie Moore, has accompanied her to nearly every appointment. Stephanie, the petite one, often ended up underneath her sleeping friend in the backseat on road trips. "She was always like that," Stephanie says, holding up photographic proof. Morristown is a picturesque American landscape in the northeastern corner of Tennessee, where the tops of mountains dance with the clouds and where US and Tennessee flags fly on telephone poles along Main Street. Places like the Timeless Elegance Tea Room occupy space near the Jersey Girl Diner downtown. Steps away, the Village Gunsmith Gun Store anchors a corner. A sign posted along a country road advertises "Angus bull for sale." It was an enjoyable youth. "We did everything together," Stephanie says. Adds Jessica, "We really had great childhoods." But their lives took disparate paths. When Jessica was 14, her father died, sending her into a spiral. She began hanging out with 30-year-old meth users. Without even realizing it, she had begun an addiction. Stephanie remembers visiting Jessica's home, watching her zoom around the house with a vacuum cleaner, sweating up a storm, zonked out of her mind. Stephanie opened one of Jessica's makeup kits and found a meth pipe. "That's when I realized that we're probably not on the same path," Stephanie recalls. They drifted apart in high school. Jessica became unrecognizable. She was manipulative, cunning, deceitful. She pushed away everyone who loved her. Her mom had always been her rock. But Jessica wrecked that relationship. She had an unplanned pregnancy when she was 20. Her mom has essentially raised the boy. By 22, Jessica's relationship with her mother "was gone." "She was so scared that she was going to get that phone call," Jessica says, crying. Her meth addiction had only grown. She'd take anything she could get her hands on. Jessica and Stephanie have been friends for 21 years. They hope drugs will never get in the way of their friendship again. Three years ago, she underwent back surgery and got hooked on opioids at warp speed. She'd go through a month's worth of prescription pills in a week and scramble to feed her habit for the rest of the month. She couldn't hold down a job. "I couldn't do anything but be strung out, pretty much," she says. "It just grabs a hold of you, and you lose sight of reality -- and before you know it, it's just too late." The opioids provided a high like she'd never felt. Like many who get hooked on painkillers, she eventually graduated to heroin, overdosing twice. "I just wasn't me. You could look at me and see I wasn't there," she says. "They took my life away. They took my soul away." She ended up homeless and, at one point, was raped. "It was just horrible," she weeps. Jessica has worked to repair her relationship with her mother -- something "that I've missed since I was 16 years old." Her mother is supportive of the pregnancy and says she's excited for the birth of her granddaughter. "She's my No. 1," says Jessica. Jessica has restored her relationship with her son. She wears a necklace he gave her; on it hangs an infinity sign and the word "Mom." "I put him through so much, so much. My mom pretty much had to raise him because I couldn't step up." She hopes that will never be the case with her daughter. At one of her son's football practices last summer, she ran into Stephanie. They realized just how much they missed each other. Their old friendship was rekindled. Jessica was in Stephanie's garden when she learned that she was pregnant. Jessica cried, thinking there was no way she could care for the child. Stephanie, who has a son about the same age as Jessica's, reassured her that the child would be her greatest blessing. Stephanie accompanied Jessica to the first ultrasound. When the two heard the heartbeat, they knew they couldn't abandon the pregnancy. She and Stephanie would make the journey together. "I see this baby as mine, too," says Stephanie. Jessica says her addiction wrecked her closest relationships. She's worked to repair her friendship with her mother. "For so long, I didn't have her, so I felt like I didn't have anyone." Stephanie says Towers' work has been transformative: "I have my best friend back, and I would just like to keep her." The two got tattoos on their feet not long after Jessica began her journey to get clean. Their choices reveal the yin and yang of their friendship. "You keep me safe," says Stephanie's tattoo. And Jessica's: "You keep me wild." 'You got to want it, too' Jessica sits down in a small office with Katz to have a heart-to-heart talk. The nurse stays in near-constant contact with 80 women in the high-risk unit. They text, email and talk by cell phone at all hours. "We're not going to judge them for their past," she says. Katz tells each woman about her brother, who died in 2009 from an overdose of methadone and other drugs. He left behind an 18-month-old boy. The pain of that memory still brings tears eight years later. She promised her young nephew that something good would come from his father's death. Emily Katz has proved to be the key at keeping women on track during detoxification. Rates of relapse have plummeted since she's joined Towers' office. When she heard that Towers needed help, she knew she had a new purpose in life. "I treat each one of these girls like they're my sister, like they're my best friend, like they're my daughter," she says, "because we have a common denominator. "Every day, this is my passion that I get to sit before these girls. I share my testimony, and they get to share theirs. That relationship builds trust more than just nurse to patient. It's more than that." Jessica confides that she took 2 milligrams of Subutex the day before. "I wish I wouldn't have even broke down yesterday, but I just couldn't do it," she says. Katz looks her in the eyes. "I know, it's hard," she says. Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Prescription and illegal opioids are commonly abused because they are so addictive. Opioid medications bind to the areas of the brain that control pain and emotions, driving up levels of the feel-good hormone dopamine in the brain's reward areas and producing an intense feeling of euphoria. As the brain becomes used to the feelings, it often takes more and more of the drug to produce the same levels of pain relief and well-being, leading to dependence and, later, addiction. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Oxymorphone hydrochloride – Oxymorphone hydrochloride, under the name Opana ER, was at the center of an HIV outbreak in Indiana in 2015. Some addicts began injecting and shared needles increased the spread of HIV. In June, the Food and Drug Administration requested that Opana ER manufacturer Endo Pharmaceuticals pull the drug from the market. It was the first time the agency has asked that a opioid pain medication be pulled "due to the public health consequences of abuse." Endo announced in July that it would pull the drug. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Codeine – Codeine is one of the weakest opioids, often given when painkillers such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen fail to work. Because it decreases activity in the part of the brain that controls coughing, it's frequently mixed with other liquids to develop cough syrups for colds and flu. It has frequently been used for pain relief after removal of tonsils and adenoids in children. After an investigation, the FDA restricted the use of codeine and tramadol in children under 12 and recommend against their use in children between 12 and 18 years of age. Additionally, the FDA has warned breastfeeding mothers not to take these medications due to the risk of serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Heroin – CNN's Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta , deaths from overdoses of prescription drugs and heroin continue to be the leading cause of unintentional death for Americans, rising 14% from 2013 to 2014. You can't get heroin by prescription, but many heroin users start off abusing prescription opioids, then turn to this illegal opioid.CNN's Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta has reported on recent research that shows today's typical heroin addict starts using at 23, is more likely to live in affluent suburbs and was likely unwittingly led to heroin through painkillers prescribed by his or her doctor. According to the CDC , deaths from overdoses of prescription drugs and heroin continue to be the leading cause of unintentional death for Americans, rising 14% from 2013 to 2014. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Fentanyl – Fentanyl citrate, pictured here, is a Class II controlled substance and one of the most powerful opioids on the market. It's often administered via injection or transdermal patch, or in lozenge form for pain after surgery, for difficult-to-manage chronic pain and for people who have developed a tolerance to other opioids. The type of fentanyl usually associated with overdoses is bought on the street in powder or pill form and is often mixed with heroin in a clandestine lab to increase the high it produces. Street names include Apache, China girl, goodfella, jackpot, murder 8, TNT and Tango and Cash. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Hydrocodone – These pills are a more powerful form of codeine, called hydrocodone, and are often mixed with acetaminophen. Hydrocodone is the most frequently prescribed opioid painkiller, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration , and the most abused. An overdose of hydrocodone can cause "cold and clammy skin, severely constricted pupils, and slow breathing that can lead to a loss of consciousness and death." Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Oxycodone – Oxycodone is a powerful narcotic pain reliever prescribed for moderate to high pain relief. It's often given in an extended-release formula for patients who will need to be on pain medications for long periods of time. Patients are warned not to break, chew, crush or dissolve extended-release tablets because the rush of oxycodone into the system could cause serious health problems, including overdose and death. Though highly addictive, oxycodone is not thought to be as frequently abused as hydrocodone. OxyContin, Percocet, Percodan and Tylox are some trade-name oxycodone products. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Morphine – Morphine is another powerful opioid often administered via syringe for severe pain. It can come in pill form, usually as extended-release tablets and capsules, and is prescribed only to relieve difficult, chronic pain that cannot be controlled by the use of other pain medications. As with most opioids, mixing medications, drinking alcohol or taking other meds that contain alcohol, or using street drugs while taking morphine, increases the risk of breathing problems or other serious, life-threatening side effects. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Meperidine – Meperidine is another narcotic analgesic, similar to morphine. It's often used to help put people to sleep before an operation and to provide pain relief after childbirth. The most common brand name is Demerol, which comes in both tablet and liquid forms. It is usually taken with or without food every three or four hours as needed for pain. As with all opioids, meperidine can cause drowsiness, so never drive a car or operate machinery after taking it until you know how you will react. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Hydromorphone – Liquid hydromorphone holds the dubious honor of being Hydromorphone is another highly potent prescription painkiller. It's most commonly known by the brand names Dilaudid, pictured here, and Exalgo.Liquid hydromorphone holds the dubious honor of being frequently mistaken for morphine in hospital "wrong drug" medication errors because of the similarity of the names and appearances. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Methadone – Though methadone is used to relieve severe chronic pain, it's most commonly known for preventing withdrawal symptoms in patients who were addicted to opioid drugs, as a part of their recovery process. Methadone has many of the same side effects as other opioids, including weakness, headache, nausea and vomiting, stomach pain, sweating, difficulty urinating, mood changes and vision problems, and difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Buprenorphine – Buprenorphine is a opioid used as an alternative to methadone to help addicts recovering from heroin use. Buprenorphine is different from other opioids because it's a "partial opioid agonist," which means that when taken in proper prescribed doses, it should produce less euphoria and physical dependence, and therefore a lower potential for misuse. It's also supposed to have a relatively mild withdrawal profile. However, if abused by crushing and snorting or injecting, it can suppress breathing and cause dizziness, confusion, unconsciousness and death. Subutex, the brand name for buprenorphine, is taken as a tablet placed under the tongue and allowed to dissolve. The brand Suboxone is a combination of buprenorphine and naloxone, an opioid antagonist. Antagonists block the opiate receptors in the brain, keeping the narcotic from creating the high abusers crave. Hide Caption 12 of 12 Jessica's boyfriend has been the gatekeeper of her Subutex pills. Katz suggests that the medication be given to Stephanie so she can intervene when Jessica begins to slide and ask her friend, "What's going on?" "That also just gives you a little bit more support -- to make sure that person understands what you're going through, that you're trying to taper and that you're trying not to use," Katz says. During those low points, she says, write in a journal about why you're doing this. Keep your daughter in your thoughts at all times. "You're doing so great. I mean, we're so proud of you. We really are," Katz says. "I could want this all day long for you, girl, but you got to want it, too." In a sign of how much she wants to be free from the grips of addiction, Jessica says she hopes that non-opioid painkillers will be used for her C-section. She'd prefer the pain over relapse. Preparing for birth Excitement overflows in the labor and delivery room. It's Thursday, April 20. The day has finally come. Accompanying Jessica are her mother, Kathy Hill; Jessica's 31-year-old boyfriend, Jason Smith; and Stephanie. Jessica has been fully detoxed for 17 days. Jessica is surrounded by friends, family and hospital staff shortly before her C-section on April 20. Stephanie braids Jessica's hair to pass the time. They tell the nurse they've been friends for more than 20 years, with major ups and downs. "It's good now," Jessica says. She hoped to avoid a cesarean section, but in the end, a vaginal birth was not an option. The C-section has been planned for shortly after noon. Jessica can't contain her giddiness. "I've been picturing what she might look like," she says. "I'm nervous. I'm just ready to see her," Jessica says. "It's been hard, but it's probably one of the best things I've done. For sure." There's a chattiness about the room. Jessica debates her mom: What football team should her son play on? There's paperwork galore to be signed, too. Katz pops into the room. Jessica greets her with a joke: "Where's Dr. Towers at? I was about to yell at him if he didn't let you come." The two laugh. The night before, they weren't laughing. Consumed by an overwhelming sense of impending motherhood, Jessica freaked out. She called Katz from a different phone than usual. Katz was at dinner and let it ring because she didn't recognize the number. Immediately, a text pinged Katz's phone: "This is Jessica. Call me." Knowing that a fragile state can lead to relapse, Katz stopped what she was doing. "I can't do this," Jessica told her. "I'm not ready." Katz spoke gently and talked her down. She told Jessica that she was ready and that she could do this. It was mostly a fear of the unknown -- a vulnerable expectant mother needing someone to speak with in the moment. Says Katz: "I told her, 'You're not going to back out now.' " A stream of nurses and medical professionals comes and goes in Jessica's room. She'd hoped that both Stephanie and her boyfriend could both be in the operating room for the delivery. But Towers breaks the bad news: She must choose only one. "I tried, but there's not enough space," he tells her. "You can be mad at me." He encourages her to pick the most supportive person. Smiling, Jessica says, "If they fight about it too much, then my mom is going." Jessica picks her boyfriend, Jason Smith, to be in the delivery room, but she lectures him not to pass out during the birth. She ultimately chooses her boyfriend, saying she can't deny him the right to see the moment his daughter is born. Soon, Dad-to-be is a ball of nerves. He has to leave the room when her IV is inserted; how's he going to handle when her belly is sliced open? "You better not pass out," Jessica warns. The nurse tells him a drape will block the view. "Just sit there and look at her, not to the left or right," she advises. He nods, climbs into Jessica's bed and kisses her. Mom and Stephanie crowd around, and a final selfie is snapped. At 12:44 p.m., Jessica learns that it's time. "I'll see you in a minute," Towers says. "You're going to do good." Her mom says, "You got this, honey." "Good luck," adds Stephanie. Jessica gets wheeled down the hall to the operating room. On a whiteboard is a message stating today's goal: "Healthy mom & baby!" Welcome, Jayda Jewel Towers paces outside the operating room, dressed in blue scrubs and a surgical cap. He removes his wedding band and ties it around the drawstring on his pants. He tapes his surgical mask to his face so his glasses won't fog up. Inside, Jessica has been given a spinal tap to numb the pain. Surgical drapes cover Jessica's body, and the room is abuzz with organized chaos. Nurse Kirby Ginn wheels Jessica toward the operating room. Katz pauses outside the room. She prays for God to be with Towers and to give Jessica the strength to get through the surgery and for the child to be born healthy. Then she heads into the room. "You're doing great, Jessica," says Dr. Kim Fortner, a member of the medical team. "We're all right here. It's almost over, OK?" A look of excruciating pain spreads across Jessica's face. "Think about her sweet baby cheeks, Jessica," says nurse Kirby Ginn. Moments later, at 1:32 p.m., a beautiful baby girl with chubby cheeks and a patch of brown hair emerges. Jayda Jewel Hill lets out two loud screams. Towers and his team quickly clean her up and swaddle her in a blanket adorned with teddy bears. She weighs in at 6 pounds and stretches 17 inches. "Are you ready to see her?" the nurse asks. "Yes, ma'am," Jessica replies. Her daughter is placed across her chest. Jessica cradles her with both hands, her right hand patting her back. "Aww," Jessica says. "She looks great," Towers says. The baby coughs a few times, worrying Jessica. "Why is she coughing like that?" she says. Jayda Jewel Hill was born at 1:32 p.m. April 20. She was born with fluid in her lungs, requiring her to be monitored for much of the evening in the neonatal intensive care unit. Caught up in the moment, the father seems to miss the question, asking a nurse to take a photo of him with his daughter. He clutches the swaddled newborn and leans in next to Jessica's face -- the birthing room in the era of social media. "Hi, little gorgeous. Hi there, beautiful. Look, there's your momma," the gleeful father says. The baby coughs a few more times. "Is she OK?" Jessica asks. Towers explains that the baby sucked in amniotic fluid during surgery. The fluid will be removed from her lungs; it's nothing to be worried about, he assures her. Katz leans in and holds Jessica's right hand. She tells her to stay strong, that her daughter is healthy. She tells her the baby is going to be taken away to be observed in the neonatal intensive care unit. Just before stitching Jessica up, Towers uses a non-opioid drug similar to novocaine to dull the pain for 24 hours. Jessica also receives Tylenol IV and an anti-inflammatory drug, Toradol. "She's hoping to not need any pain pills," he says. "It is major surgery. Your abdomen is open, so it hurts." Anything to avoid relapse. Bucking the trend Less than 24 hours after the birth, more than 150 doctors, nurse practitioners and other health officials from across East Tennessee gather in an auditorium at the UT medical center. On stage, Towers steps through a slideshow presentation of opioid use disorder in pregnancy. He reels off stats from the CDC: From 2000 to 2015, more than half a million people died from drug overdoses, including 183,000 people from prescription opioids. "Unfortunately, we're only getting worse," he says. In Tennessee, he notes, three people die from overdoses every day. He talks about his findings, of the women who've detoxed in his program. "We're bucking the trend," Towers says. As is tradition, the newborn's footprints were stamped shortly after birth. Jayda Jewel weighed in at 6 pounds and stretched 17 inches. "I'm passionate because I just believe it's the right way to do medicine," he says. "We don't always succeed. I don't know anyone who succeeds all the time when dealing with addiction. But my passion comes from the ones that we've delivered that don't have (withdrawal) and the look in the mother's eye when they say, 'You saved my life.' "I don't think you can get any better response from a patient." Shortly after the speech, he takes an elevator to the third floor and visits Jessica and her baby. Jessica sports a pink T-shirt that says "Don't want to be here." "We want to be home," she says. Jayda Jewel, nicknamed JJ, looks like the perfect child, with big eyes, content in her mother's arms. She shows no signs of withdrawal, although symptoms can take a couple of days to appear. Jessica hugs the doctor. "I couldn't have done this without you and Emily," she says. Outside Towers' presence, Stephanie repeats that sentiment, telling Jessica, "You're so lucky you got him." "If it weren't for this baby, you might not have got off Subutex ever." Over the next several days, Jayda Jewel exhibits no signs of withdrawal, but Jessica's pain intensifies. She's given three Vicodin pills, an opioid painkiller. The typical C-section patient gets 10, Towers says. Jessica had hoped to be given an opioid blocker called Vivitrol, which can resist the urge to use for up to a month. But to get it, her system must be clear of opioids for seven days. Towers expects to be able to give her the medicine in her followup appointment. "She felt bad about that," he says. The door to Jessica's recovery room celebrates the life of her new daughter. Jayda Jewel, nicknamed JJ, did not suffer withdrawal. But still, she succeeded. Her baby was born healthy. Four days after the birth, Jessica straps Jayda Jewel in a car seat in her hospital room and then climbs into a wheelchair to be escorted out of the facility. Mom and daughter head down an elevator and out the front door. Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Towers and Katz meet them at their car. Jessica places her baby inside and turns toward them. "We made it," Jessica says, wrapping her arms around her "Nurse Barbie." "I love you." "I love you, too," Katz responds. Then Jessica hugs Towers again. The car soon disappears around the corner, onto the highway and off to their hometown. Together, mother and daughter begin new lives.
(CNN) Schizophrenia is thought to be caused by a mixture of genetic and environmental factors. But new research suggests that complications during pregnancy could increase nearly five-fold the child's risk of developing schizophrenia later in life in high-risk individuals. These complications appear to "turn on" genes in the placenta that have been associated with schizophrenia, the researchers said. "The complications that mattered were very serious obstetric complications like pre-eclampsia, intrauterine growth restriction and premature rupture of membranes without induction of labor," said Dr. Daniel Weinberger , director and CEO of the Lieber Institute for Brain Development at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and a leading author of the new study. "And these kinds of stresses happen in about 15% of pregnancies, so it's not an uncommon environmental risk factor," he added. The study, published Monday in the journal Nature Medicine , looked at the genetic profiles and pregnancy histories of nearly 4,000 adults from four countries: the United States, Italy, Germany and Japan. About half had been diagnosed with schizophrenia, a complex psychiatric disorder that affects mood, cognition, self-expression, thought processes and perceptions of reality. The researchers found a strong association between serious pregnancy complications and the development of schizophrenia later in the child's life. Specifically, adults with a high genetic risk whose mothers had complications during pregnancy were about five times more likely to develop schizophrenia than individuals with similar genetic risks but no pregnancy complications. "The first finding was that these risk factors interact with each other. The genetic risk for schizophrenia in the context of a complicated pregnancy has a much bigger impact -- a four- to five-fold greater impact -- on the liability that a person will develop schizophrenia than if they occur in the absence of a complicated pregnancy," Weinberger said. Schizophrenia is a serious psychiatric disorder that affects nearly 1% of the population worldwide. Symptoms include hallucinations, dysfunctional thinking, reduced expression or pleasure in everyday activities and memory problems, according to the National Institute of Mental Health The disorder is probably caused by a mixture of genetic and environmental risk factors, including the environment of the uterus during pregnancy. Genetic factors account for nearly 80% of the risk of developing schizophrenia, a 2009 study found. "Most complex human disorders, including schizophrenia, involve both genetic and environmental risk factors," Weinberger said. "And there is a very extensive catalog now of regions of the human genome that have been found to increase the risk of schizophrenia." As a second part of the study, the researchers also analyzed gene expression in placental tissue from patients whose mothers had or didn't have pregnancy complications. They found that a subset of the genes known to be associated with schizophrenia were more likely to be "turned on" in the placenta of patients who had complications during pregnancy. "These genes seem to monitor or represent the biological resilience or sensitivity of the placenta to environmental stress. The more the placenta showed signs of being under stress, the more this group of schizophrenia genes were turned on," Weinberger said. The placenta is a unique organ made up of fetal and maternal tissue that helps deliver nutrients and oxygen to the fetus during pregnancy and remove waste products. Its role in the development of a number of health conditions is probably underrecognized, according to Dr. David Valle , director of the McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine at Johns Hopkins, who was not involved in the new study. "The placenta is a vital organ for the well-being of the fetus," Valle said. "I think many investigators, myself included, have been trying to understand how perinatal stress could increase risk for schizophrenia. And this work hypothesizes that the intermediary in the equation is the placenta. "To some extent, this is one of those observations that you sort of slap yourself in the side of the head and say, 'Why didn't I think of that?' It's quite interesting," he added. The researchers also found that the genes associated with schizophrenia were more likely to be "turned on" in the placenta of male fetuses than female fetuses, which could help explain why men are more likely to develop schizophrenia than women, according to Valle. "We've known all along that men have a higher risk for developing schizophrenia, and they generally develop it earlier in life," Valle said. "This may be a way to explain that increased risk." The new study is not the first to link events during pregnancy with the development of schizophrenia. A 2010 study , for example, showed that women who were exposed to the influenza virus during the second trimester of pregnancy were three to seven times more likely to have children with schizophrenia. But the new study is the first to suggest that adverse events during pregnancy could change gene expression in the placenta -- and presumably the fetus, according to Valle. "People have known for a long time that perinatal problems increase risk for schizophrenia," Valle said. "But what's exciting about this work is that it provides a new and innovative way of trying to connect the genetic risk with the perinatal risk." The study could also help explain why a number of complex psychiatric illnesses -- including schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and autism -- are more common in men, according to Weinberger. "We've known for a long time that all these developmental behavior disorders -- schizophrenia, autism, ADHD, dyslexia and Tourette syndrome -- are two to four times more common in males than females, and we've never had any good understanding of that," Weinberger said. "This suggests that some of the basis for this male incidence increase has to do with the relatively greater sensitivity of the male placenta to environmental stress during pregnancy," he added. The new research cannot say whether there are critical times during pregnancy when the placenta is more or less vulnerable to stress -- one of the study's main limitations, according to Valle. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. But the findings could help guide research into the biological basis of schizophrenia as well as the identification of individuals who may be at increased risk of developing schizophrenia later in life, according to Weinberger. "This is just the tip of the iceberg," he said. "We need to do a lot more to understand the genetic programs that build placentas, that modify placentas and that respond to stress in the placenta. Obviously, some of the schizophrenia genes are part of that landscape." And if researchers can better identify people with an increased risk of schizophrenia early on, Valle said, "perhaps there's some intervention we can do to help reduce their chances of developing schizophrenia."
WASHINGTON — Canada is imposing dollar-for-dollar tariff "countermeasures" on up to $16.6 billion worth of U.S. imports in response to the American decision to make good on its threat of similar tariffs against Canadian-made steel and aluminum. The tariffs, which apply to a long list of U.S. products that includes everything from flat-rolled steel to playing cards and felt-tipped pens, will go into effect July 1, Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland told a news conference Thursday. "This is $16.6 billion of retaliation," Freeland said. "This is the strongest trade action Canada has taken in the post-war era. This is a very strong response, it is a proportionate response, it is perfectly reciprocal. This is a very strong Canadian action in response to a very bad U.S. decision." Exemptions expire Friday Freeland made the announcement alongside Prime Minister Justin Trudeau following word from the White House that the U.S. will slap tariffs on Canadian, Mexican and European Union steel and aluminium as of midnight Thursday night. She called the U.S. measures illegal and counterproductive, and both she and Trudeau expressed how hard it is to imagine how Canada could ever be a national-security threat to an ally as close and important as the United States. "That Canada could be considered a national-security threat to the United States is inconceivable," said Trudeau, adding that the people of the U.S. are not Canada's target, and that the federal government would far prefer that its hand not be forced. Canada, Mexico and Europe had been exempted from import duties of 25 per cent on steel and 10 per cent on aluminum when they were first imposed in March, but those exemptions will expire as scheduled on Friday. "The government of Canada is confident that shared values, geography and common interests will ultimately overcome protectionism," Trudeau said. "We will always protect Canadian workers and Canadian interests." The government of Canada is confident that shared values, geography and common interests will ultimately overcome protectionism. Justin Trudeau Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross confirmed Thursday that the United States would end the temporary exemption on Canadian, Mexican and European Union steel and aluminum as of midnight, as scheduled. That means that President Donald Trump will be face to face with a number of leaders who have taken retaliatory action against the U.S. when he makes his closely watched Canadian debut at the G7 next week in Quebec. While the tariffs have had "major, positive effects" on industry jobs and workers, "the Trump Administration's actions underscore its commitment to good-faith negotiations with our allies to enhance our national security while supporting American workers," the White House said in a statement. Canada, Mexico and Europe had been exempted until June 1 from import duties of 25 per cent on steel and 10 per cent on aluminum when they were first imposed in March. Barring an 11th-hour reprieve, those exemptions will expire as scheduled. Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne, campaigning in advance of the June 7 provincial election, savaged the U.S. president as she called the tariff measure short-sighted and urged Trudeau "to take the strongest retaliation possible to protect our workers" and industry. "I think that we've all had just about enough of Donald Trump.... He doesn't seem to get that his bluster and his bullying are costing people real jobs — in his own country, in Canada and in Ontario," Wynne said. "I really believe that now the time for talk is done. Donald Trump is a bully and the only way to deal with a bully is to stand up and push back and we have to do that." During a conference call early Thursday, Ross shrugged off questions about the U.S. facing possible retaliation, or whether the move would negatively affect the G7 meeting. And he said that while he was looking forward to continuing negotiations, the U.S. is making its decision on national security grounds — a justification Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland has dismissed as absurd. In the case of Canada and Mexico, Ross said the decision was based on a lack of progress in the ongoing talks to update the North American Free Trade Agreement. "As to Canada, Mexico, you will recall that the reason for the deferral had been pending the outcome of the NAFTA talks," he said. "Those talks are taking longer than we had hoped. There is no longer a very precise date when they may be concluded" so they were added to the tariff list, he said. If Canada and Mexico choose to take retaliatory measures, it will not affect the ability to keep renegotiating NAFTA as a separate track, he added. 'If any of these parties does retaliate, that does not mean that there cannot be continuing negotiations," Ross said. "They're not mutually exclusive behaviours." G6-plus-one The long-threatened tactic is sure to cast a pall over the G7, with some observers saying a G6-plus-one scenario is already shaping up, with Trump as the outlier. Ross played down the divisions. "There are periodic disagreements between any two countries on any given set of topics. That doesn't necessarily mean that it derails other discussions at all," he said. "It all depends on how the various parties react to the circumstances." European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, who will be at the G7 table with the seven other country leaders, expressed strong opposition to Thursday's decision. "The EU believes these unilateral U.S. tariffs are unjustified and at odds with World Trade Organization rules. This is protectionism, pure and simple." Trump had been widely expected to impose tariffs on European steel and aluminum imports after failing to win concessions from the European Union. Canada and its European allies have spent recent days making a concerted effort to head off the move. Trudeau and French President Emmanuel Macron made their cases separately Wednesday to dissuade Trump, who is using a national-security clause in U.S. trade law to justify the move. Trudeau and Macron will meet next week in Ottawa before the G7 to talk strategy.
Paul Rafelson is a tax attorney representing online merchants. He is an adjunct professor at Pace Law School in New York and the executive director of Online Merchants Guild. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) If you were looking for proof that Amazon is leveraging its ever-expanding shipping and distribution capacity to clobber every last competitor and become the go-to seller of everything, here is some: The tech giant announced in April that Prime, its $119-per-year subscription service that offers unlimited two-day shipping on most orders, has surpassed 100 million members. At the same time Bed Bath & Beyond, among the major retailers buckling under the online competition led by Amazon, saw its stock hit a nearly 10-year low in April. How did Amazon's delivery-on-demand subscription service get so big so fast? State governments have diverted vast sums of money from local education initiatives, infrastructure projects and small businesses to help Amazon build warehouses, data centers and just about every other pillar of the Prime network. After more than a decade of states fueling Prime's expansion, helping Amazon pad its coffers and protecting its price advantage, it is time to explore whether the Prime shipping and distribution network should be open to all without fees. JUST WATCHED Late night lampoons new Amazon service Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Late night lampoons new Amazon service 00:50 Since it was launched in 2005, Prime has become the retail equivalent of the "Death Star," capable of obliterating decades-old businesses. The platform is under the exclusive control of the Amazon empire, a remarkable feat for CEO Jeff Bezos, who cut his teeth on Wall Street. But while many like to attribute the growth of Prime to Bezos' business acuity, the true story of its success is the unprecedented taxpayer support Amazon has gotten from all levels of government. At the state level, Amazon has scored a staggering $241 million in subsidies since 2015, according to research done by Thomas Cafcas and Greg LeRoy for Good Jobs First, an advocacy group that tracks public subsidies. These have come in the form of property tax abatements, corporate income tax credits and, perhaps most importantly, sales tax exemptions. JUST WATCHED Future of retail brings technology to stores Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Future of retail brings technology to stores 02:20 States have justified these breaks by promising scores of jobs and sweeping economic development, just as they are doing now in telling residents that unprecedented corporate welfare for the tech giant's planned second headquarters, HQ2, would be well worth it. But the costs of this so-called economic development in Seattle, for example, have been enormous. Rents have gone through the roof and rates of homelessness have surged. In the 25 states where Amazon has opened fulfillment warehouses, promised job gains have not come to fruition -- warehouse jobs increased, of course, after Amazon moved into town, but those gains were canceled out by losses to other local industries, such as retail. Amazon long avoided collecting sales tax, which allowed the tech giant to sustain its unbeatable prices and crush competitors. Soaring revenues enabled the company to invest in a nationwide distribution network of warehouses, "sortation centers" and logistics facilities -- without which there would be no Prime as we know it. Year after year, states missed out on billions in tax revenue. In 2016 alone, the sales tax loophole for online retailers cost states more than $17 billion. Today, it might seem as though Amazon's tax-dodging days are over, since the tech giant is finally collecting sales tax on items it sells directly to consumers, but it still claims an online marketplace exemption on t hird-party transactions , invoking the myth that it is merely an online mall. In the past two years, Washington and Pennsylvania closed the loophole by passing marketplace tax collection laws. But Amazon retains its duty-free status in 43 states. South Carolinians can attest to the expensive damage to state coffers of cutting a deal with Amazon to allow the company to remain duty-free. JUST WATCHED Trump on the attack against Amazon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump on the attack against Amazon 03:00 Amazon continues to add insult to injury by soliciting the offer of enormous tax breaks and other economic incentives from the cities vying to become the home of HQ2. It is simply undeniable that the success of Prime has been fueled by a serious breach of the public trust, orchestrated by Amazon and enabled by state governments around the country. In some cases, states took money out of our pockets via subsidies and gave blank checks to Amazon. In other instances, they allowed Amazon to benefit at the expense of our local business economies by granting the tech giant an exemption from sales tax collection. That is the real story of how Prime surpassed 100 million members, and it shows why the taxpayer-built service should be accessible to all without membership fees.
Is there anything more adorable than photos of dogs and photos of babies? Maybe photos of dogs with babies. In the pursuit of pure cuteness, we put together a collection of squee-worthy photos of canines with their tiny human friends. With all the unhappy news filling headlines and the daily grind of the workweek, we could all use a pick-me-up.
(CNN) If you've read about the latest wellness trends, you may have entertained the idea of a diet detox. But whether you've considered juicing, fasting or cleansing in an effort to lose weight or improve your well-being, you're probably aware that drastically cutting out foods is not effective as a long-term lifestyle approach to healthy eating. In fact, strict detoxing can cause issues including fatigue, dizziness and low blood sugar. But there is one kind of sustainable detox that is worthwhile, according to some experts. Reducing sugar in your diet can help you drop pounds, improve your health and even give you more radiant skin. "Sugar makes you fat, ugly and old," said Brooke Alpert, a registered dietitian and co-author of "The Sugar Detox: Lose the Sugar, Lose the Weight -- Look and Feel Great." "What we've discovered in the last couple of years is that sugar is keeping us overweight. It's also a leading cause of heart disease; it negatively affects skin, and it leads to premature aging." Sugar addiction Here's more bad news: We can't stop consuming sugar. "People have a real dependency -- a real addiction to sugar," Alpert said. "We have sugar, we feel good from it, we get (the feeling of) an upper, and then we crash and need to reach for more." JUST WATCHED How to tame a sweet tooth Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to tame a sweet tooth 01:05 About 10% of the US population are true sugar addicts, according to Robert Lustig, professor of pediatrics and member of the Institute for Health Policy Studies at the University of California, San Francisco. What's more, research suggests that sugar induces rewards and cravings that are similar in magnitude to those induced by addictive drugs. One of the biggest concerns is the amount of added sugars in our diets, which are often hidden in foods. Although ice cream cake is an obvious source of sugar, other foods that may not even taste sweet -- such as salad dressings, tomato sauces and breads -- can be loaded with the white stuff. "People don't realize that seemingly healthy foods are loaded with sugar -- and so we're basically eating sugar all day long, from morning till night," Alpert said. How to sugar detox: Going cold turkey for three days The good news is that even if you're not a true sugar "addict," by eliminating sugar from your diet, you can quickly lose unwanted pounds, feel better and have a more radiant appearance. "There is no one person who wouldn't benefit by eliminating added sugars from their diets," Lustig said. Children can benefit, too. Lustig's research revealed that when obese children eliminated added sugars from their diets for just nine days, every aspect of their metabolic health improved -- despite no changes in body weight or total calories consumed. But going cold turkey is what works best, at least in the beginning. "Early on in my practice, when I would notice that people had real addiction to sugar, we'd start trying to wean them of sugar or limit their intake or eat in moderation ... but the word 'moderation' is so clichéd and not effective," Alpert said. "It was just ineffective to ask people to eat less of something when they're struggling with this bad habit. You wouldn't ask an alcoholic to just drink two beers. "What was so successful in getting my clients to kick their sugar habit was to go cold turkey. When they would go cold turkey, I wasn't their favorite person -- but the number one positive effect was that it recalibrated their palate," she said. "They could now taste natural sugars in fruits, vegetables and dairy that they used to be so dulled to." So for the first three days on a sugar detox, Alpert recommends no added sugars -- but also no fruits, no starchy vegetables (such as corn, peas, sweet potatoes and butternut squash), no dairy, no grains and no alcohol. "You're basically eating protein, vegetables and healthy fats." For example, breakfast can include three eggs, any style; lunch can include up to 6 ounces of poultry, fish or tofu and a green salad, and dinner is basically a larger version of lunch, though steamed vegetables such as broccoli, kale and spinach can be eaten in place of salad. Snacks include an ounce of nuts and sliced peppers with hummus. Beverages include water, unsweetened tea and black coffee. Though they don't contribute calories, artificial sweeteners are not allowed on the plan, either. "These little pretty colored packets pack such a punch of sweetness, and that's how our palates get dulled and immune and less reactive to what sweetness really is," Alpert said. Consuming artificial sweeteners causes "you not only (to) store more fat," Lustig explained, "you also end up overeating later on to compensate for the increased energy storage." How to sugar detox: When an apple tastes like candy Once the first three days of the sugar detox are completed, you can add an apple. "By the fourth day, an apple tastes like candy," Alpert said. "The onions are sweet! Almonds are sweet! Once you take sugar away from your diet cold turkey, your palate recalibrates, and you start tasting natural sugars again." Starting with day four, you can add one apple and one dairy food each day. Dairy, such as yogurt or cheese, should be full-fat and unsweetened. "Fat, fiber and protein slow the absorption of sugar, so taking out fat from dairy will make you absorb sugar faster," Alpert said. You can also add some higher-sugar vegetables such as carrots and snow peas, as well as a daily serving of high-fiber crackers. Three glasses of red wine in that first week can be added, too. During week two, you can add a serving of antioxidant-rich berries and an extra serving of dairy. You can also add back starchy vegetables such as yams and winter squash. For week three, you can add grains such as barley, quinoa and oatmeal, and even some more fruit including grapes and clementines. You can also have another glass of red wine during the week and an ounce of dark chocolate each day. "Week three should be quite livable," Alpert said. Week four is the home stretch, when you can enjoy two starches per day, including bread and rice, in addition to high-fiber crackers. Wine goes up to five glasses per week. "You can have a sandwich in week four, which just makes things easier," Alpert said. "I want people living. Week four is the way to do it." Week four defines the maintenance part of the plan -- though intentional indulgences are allowed, such as ice cream or a piece of cake at a birthday party. "Because the addictive behavior is gone, having ice cream once or twice will not send you back to square one," Alpert said. Additionally, no fruit is off-limits once you've completed the 31 days. "The whole purpose is to give people control and ownership and a place for these foods in our life," Alpert said. Benefits and cautions with slashing sugar Detoxing from sugar can help you lose weight quickly. "We had over 80 testers from all over the country, and they lost anywhere between 5 to 20 pounds during the 31 days, depending on their weight or sugar addiction," Alpert said. "Many also noticed that a lot of the weight was lost from their midsection. Belts got looser!" Participants also reported brighter eyes, clearer skin and fewer dark circles. They also had more energy and fewer mood swings. Photos: Natural sweeteners Photos: Natural sweeteners Although maple syrup contains some vitamins, minerals and antioxidants, the amounts in a typical serving are quite small. One tablespoon provides about 1% of your daily needs for calcium, potassium and iron. Hide Caption 1 of 5 Photos: Natural sweeteners Honey has been shown to possess small amounts of nutrients, antioxidants and antibacterial, antiviral and anti-inflammatory compounds. Hide Caption 2 of 5 Photos: Natural sweeteners Whole dates are a good source of several key nutrients, including potassium, manganese, magnesium, copper, calcium, iron, B vitamins, vitamin K and antioxidants. However, the nutrient amounts in a teaspoon of date sugar are minimal. Hide Caption 3 of 5 Photos: Natural sweeteners Coconut sugar provides small amounts of nutrients and contains inulin, a naturally occurring, indigestible carbohydrate that acts as a prebiotic, or "food," for beneficial gut bacteria. Hide Caption 4 of 5 Photos: Natural sweeteners Blackstrap molasses contains 6% of your daily value for iron and calcium. Plus, it has been shown to have higher antioxidant levels than any other sweetener. Hide Caption 5 of 5 "I have lost approximately 40 pounds following the sugar detox," said Diane, who preferred not to share her last name. She has been on the plan for approximately two years. "I thought I was educated on weight loss, but like many, I was miseducated, and by reducing fat, I was really just adding sugar. With the elimination of sugar, including artificial sweeteners, it is incredible how sweet foods tastes." Diane added back some healthy fats into her diet, which keeps her feeling satisfied. And her sugar cravings disappeared. "This is probably the longest I have remained on a plan, and I don't feel like this will change. It just feels natural and normal." There are challenges and medical considerations before starting, though. Since the first few days of a sugar detox can be challenging, it's important to pick three days during which your schedule will be supportive. "Depending on how intense your addiction is, you can experience withdrawal symptoms, such as brain fog, crankiness and fatigue," Alpert said. Lustig found that the children in his study experienced anxiety and irritability during the first five days of eliminating sugar and caffeine, though it eventually subsided. "If you feel bad, stop and have a piece of fruit. But if you can push through and stay well-hydrated, you can really break your cycle of sugar addiction," Alpert said. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. It's important to note that the plan may not be appropriate for diabetics, extreme athletes or anyone taking medication to control blood sugar. It is also not recommended for pregnant women. Finally, before starting a sugar detox, enlist the help of friends and/or family members for support. "You need people around you to help you be successful," Lustig said. "The whole family has to do it together."
La Jolla, California (CNN) To face each day, Claire Wineland undergoes hours of breathing treatments. It's a reality of living with cystic fibrosis she's come to accept. But last month, as the nebulizer hummed loudly in her La Jolla, California, hotel room, she breathed in medicine through her mask and hoped this day would be the first step toward something different. She'd traveled from Los Angeles with her mother, her best friend and her pit bull, Daisy, who flopped down on the floor atop one of Claire's ever-present oxygen tubes. A full day of appointments at a nearby medical center awaited her, when she would begin the evaluation process to see whether she might be a candidate for a double-lung transplant. A year earlier, Claire vowed that she'd never have the major surgery. "It's not for me and never has been," she said at the time. She was more comfortable dealing with the illness she knew than taking on the unknown. She preferred to focus on leading a purposeful life than worrying about death and how to dodge it. Claire Wineland sits in her hotel room with dog Daisy before heading to evaluations at the Center for Transplantation at UC San Diego Health. A series of irreversible setbacks and some painful soul-searching, however, have prompted an about-face in her thinking. Claire, 21, needs new lungs, or she will die -- sooner than she's willing to accept. The only question is: Did her change of heart come too late? Feeling trapped It wasn't as if the clouds parted and she suddenly saw the light. Claire's new outlook was the result of a messy and humbling self-reckoning. She had long managed to push through physical discomfort to lead a life that mattered. After emerging from a 16-day medically induced coma at age 13, she envisioned the Claire's Place Foundation , which today provides financial support to struggling families affected by cystic fibrosis. She appeared in brutally honest viral videos in which she talked about topics like death and did it with a smile. Since she was 14, she had been taking to stages and wowing audiences with beyond-her-years wisdom. Along the way, she nurtured a love of travel. She was wrapping up a three-city tour last fall when pneumonia landed her in a Philadelphia hospital for two weeks. Doctors there sat her down and told Claire she had to stop flying. Period. They told her that her lungs could collapse and that she ran the risk of dropping dead on a plane, she said. They warned that it would be painful and laid out what it would feel like if an air pocket in her lungs burst. "You will feel like you're being stabbed to death ... and then blood will stop flowing to your brain," she remembered them saying. "And I was like, 'OK, I got the message! Copy that!' " She took a three-day train ride home and began to settle down. Because her body works so hard to breathe, Claire must take in about 5,000 calories a day and relies on a feeding tube to absorb calories while she sleeps. Cystic fibrosis affects more than 30,000 people in the United States (and more than 70,000 worldwide), according to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation . The disease causes an overabundance of mucus, which traps infections and blocks airways in the lungs, complicates digestion, affects the pancreas and other organs and, eventually, leads to respiratory failure. The median survival age is about 40, according to the foundation -- a great improvement from the 1950s, when surviving long enough to attend elementary school was rare. Claire became uber-diligent with her care. She was on top of her dozens of medications, including her shots for cystic fibrosis-related diabetes, endured as best she could the feeding tube at night, even though it made her throw up, and spent extra time with her breathing treatments. For four hours daily, she said, she wore a vest to shake her lungs and loosen mucus. She also tried supplements like turmeric and found comfort in the nettle infusions she drank throughout the day. But even with all of this, her lung function continued to decline. In one year, she said her working lung capacity fell 10 points -- from 35% to 25%. Short walks and visits to the beach left this lover of the outdoors exhausted. Simple grocery shopping became too tough to manage. She had no energy for local speaking engagements and lost her income flow. She felt homebound, trapped and unable to do what mattered to her most. CFers, as she refers to people with cystic fibrosis, often talk about "the Wheelchair Decision" with dread, Claire said. But when breathing and getting around became too difficult and she got hers in February, it initially felt "like freedom." With her best friend, Larissa, taking on the role of "designated wheeler," the duo could tool around outside. The day she got the wheelchair, they went on a seven-hour adventure around Los Angeles' Venice Beach, where Claire lives, visiting the canals, going to the park, soaking in the ocean breeze. And while most of the time, she has no qualms about needing a wheelchair, there are accessibility issues, the sidewalks are a mess, and she can't be pushed through sand. Inevitably, she's had those moments when she thinks, "It sucks that I need this. It's painful that it's gotten this far." Claire breathes in medicine through a nebulizer as Larissa pounds her back with cupped hands to help loosen mucus in her airways. Then Claire, who's undergone more than 30 surgeries and been in the hospital a quarter of her life, received another jolt during a March hospital stay. Medical staff discovered that her portacath wasn't working. The small dome under the skin of her chest provides a central line into a vein, allowing easy administration of IV treatments -- such as antibiotics, which she must take regularly to beat back constant infections. A portacath replacement means surgery, and Claire's pulmonary function was -- and remains -- at a level too dangerous for her to go under anesthesia. Though the portacath was fixable, Claire didn't know it would be at the time. A wave of terror washed over her. She fell apart and realized it was time to take the transplant idea seriously. "I can't go under anesthesia. I can't fly. I can't do anything," she remembered feeling with a panic. "I have completely locked myself in a position of not being able to do anything besides die." Ready for the race After leaving the La Jolla hotel, Claire was wheeled into the Center for Transplantation at UC San Diego Health, prepared to meet with members of the lung transplant team. She'd eaten a McDonald's McGriddle sandwich the day before -- a secret she employs to put on an extra pound or two before weigh-ins -- just in case they asked her and her 95-pound frame to step on a scale. She was armed with questions and a notepad, ready to studiously record all she'd learn. Since she'd been here less than two years earlier and decided against pursuing the transplant path then, she was eager to tell them why this time was different. A nurse who serves as the lung transplant coordinator, Megan Serletti, spent several hours educating Claire, her mom and Larissa about the process. Megan Serletti, top, a nurse who works as a lung transplant coordinator, leads Claire and her mom, Melissa Nordquist Yeager, into the transplantation center. They talked about the battery of tests that would determine whether she would qualify to get on the waiting list, some of which Claire knew well and described as "gnarly." They discussed the lung allocation score, the number Claire will get if she's approved that measures how sick she is and determines where she sits on the priority list. They discussed what life on a waitlist looks like: the necessity that she stay within a four-hour drive of the center, the importance of not ignoring phone calls, the exercise she'd need to grow stronger and the multitude of blood draws and exams she'd have on her schedule. "We call a transplant your marathon," Serletti said. "We tell people to train for your marathon. The day you get called is the day of the race." There were forms to sign and questions she'd need to consider. For example, would she be willing to accept lungs from a prostitute? "I'm fine if a donor had sex in exchange for money," Claire quipped. "Way to bring the hustle." How about from someone who was an IV drug user and contracted hepatitis C, a condition that is treatable? "Honestly, I'd just laugh if I got new lungs and caught something else," she said. "I already have the body of someone who's been around the block." Serletti spoke of the realities after surgery, including the drugs Claire would need to take for the rest of her life, the physical and emotional challenges she might face, the changes in lifestyle she'd have to honor. Claire wrote everything down. She curled her legs into the chair, revealing the tattoo on her left ankle: the thumbs-up "Don't Panic" logo from "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy." "None of it spooked me," Claire said afterward, over lunch in the transplantation center's courtyard. "Now that I'm looking at it as something I have to do, I don't care about any of the side effects. I'm willing to deal with anything." 'We both just started crying' To qualify for new lungs, a person must be sick enough to need a transplant yet strong enough to withstand the surgery and recovery. There were 1,436 candidates for lung transplants as of April 20, according to the United Network for Organ Sharing , which manages the nation's organ waiting lists. Of those, 122 had a primary diagnosis of cystic fibrosis. Last year, of the total 2,449 lung transplants performed, CFers accounted for nearly 11% of the recipients. Unlike previous introductory meetings, when her heart wasn't in it, Claire takes in every word during this education session about lung transplants. A lung transplant is not a cure, but it can extend a life, if all goes well. Of those who received lung transplants (not just CFers), dating to 2000, an average of 84% survived after one year, nearly 54% survived five years, and slightly more than 30% survived 10 years or more, according to the organ sharing network's data. Deciding to go for a lung transplant, let alone a double-lung transplant (the only option for CFers), is no small matter. Claire first visited a transplantation center at UCLA when she was 14 but said that was too early for the idea to make sense for her. At 17, she checked out the program at Stanford University but was turned down, her mom explained, because they could tell that Claire wasn't interested. She checked out the option again, at the very place she had returned to now, when she was 19. While her peers were being tasked with picking out prom dresses or decorating dorm rooms, she was being asked to contemplate her mortality. She prayed that she'd want it as much as she knew her parents and doctors did, but her heart wasn't in it, she said. She was still happy with what she had and, as an adult, able to make her own decisions. Her parents, who split up when Claire was 3, struggled to make peace with her choice. "Just think of it as insurance, even if you don't want to do it," her mother, Melissa Nordquist Yeager, pleaded at first. "Get on the list so you can change your mind." But ever since she'd been a small child, Claire had a sense of self, an understanding of her condition and a sort of intuition Yeager needed to trust -- even if it made her uncomfortable. Her dad, John Wineland, said Claire "has a relationship with her body that is sacred" and described his daughter's thinking: "This is the body I came in with. This is the body I'm going out with." And as her parent, he said, "I have to live with it." Claire was born with cystic fibrosis and has spent a quarter of her life in the hospital. (Family Photo) To see her struggle and deteriorate over the past year was both sobering and excruciating for them. So when Claire broke down and said she'd changed her mind, they were thrilled, excited and terrified. "I was blown away, so grateful, happy and hopeful. It was a sign that she wasn't willing to give up," remembered Yeager, who was with Claire at the hospital in March and heard the news first. "I called her dad, and we both just started crying," Yeager said. "I'm just praying my ass off, really, that everything goes smoothly, that she can get a shot at more time on the planet," Claire's dad said. "There are a lot of hoops she has to jump through to be accepted." 'Are you ready?' It's not uncommon for CFers to change their minds about transplant, social worker Leslie Fijolek assured Claire. Fijolek, who serves on the transplant team, remembered Claire from the last time she visited UC San Diego Health. Fijolek's job is to think about "who are these [new] lungs going to live with," she said, get a sense of the care system recipients have in place and provide support to make the process successful for everyone involved. Is Claire compliant in taking her medications? Is she prepared to relocate near the transplantation center, where she'll need to be for at least three months after the transplant if she gets one? Who'd move with her and drive her to appointments? "How's your mood been? Any depression and anxiety?" Fijolek asked. Leslie Fijolek, a social worker, asks Claire hard questions to see whether she's prepared to take on what a transplant would mean. Claire mentioned how her decline, starting last fall, threw her into a depression. They talked about how she'd lost the ability to manage her physical decline, how she'd like to find a therapist who works with patients facing chronic illness, how she turns to arts and crafts projects to get out of bed -- and out of her head -- on rough days. Photos on a cell phone are passed around, showing the papier-mache tree she's been working on and how the bark and surrounding foliage are remarkably true to life. Fijolek turned serious, locked eyes with Claire and said what everyone in the room already understood: "You know you need a transplant." "I was so young. I was so naïve," Claire answered, describing where she was before. "All the side effects used to scare the shit out of me. My relationship to transplant and all it entails has changed." Fijolek, who was all too familiar with Claire's past ambivalence, pushed her further. "Let's say you got listed in about two weeks; it means you can get a call at any time," she said. "Are you ready?" Claire assured her she is. "It's a big change from where you were," the social worker said. "I didn't want to waste anyone's time," Claire answered. Her mother sat by, fanning herself with a medical brochure, listened and wiped a tear from her eye. All she had The last appointment of the day was with one of the transplant team's pulmonologists. Dr. Kamyar Afshar explains the importance of Claire building her strength so she can handle the transplant, if she's given one. Dr. Kamyar Afshar got down to the nitty gritty. He wanted to know what antibiotics still worked for her, how many bowel movements she has a day and the last time she coughed up blood. "Two days ago," she told him. "It's usually one or two times a month." He prescribed walks every day to build up her endurance and suggested she increase her continuous oxygen flow from her normal 2 liters per minute to 6 liters per minute when exercising. He looked down at her worn Birkenstocks and said, "Your shoes will have to change." The doctor cranked up her oxygen and told her that if she wanted to get a transplant, she'd need to be able to do 15 sits-to-stands in a minute. He said this was non-negotiable. She won't be able to use her arms after the surgery to get up from a chair or bed, he explained. He asked her to climb off the exam table and show him some squats. Claire -- who used to do yoga six days a week, loved to swim and even went through a phase when she did difficult workout videos like P90X with her dad -- crossed her arms in front of her chest and showed the doctor all she had. For the first time that day, her cheeks had color. "I don't anticipate you'd be on the list for too long," Afshar blurted out. Given her blood type and her condition, he said, she'd probably get a transplant within three months of being approved -- if she's approved. The first full day of evaluation appoitnments complete, Claire and her mom breathe sighs of overwhelmed relief. Claire's eyes opened wide, and her mom appeared to melt into her chair. Suddenly, it seemed real. "Three months!" Yeager said outside the center. "That made me want to throw up a little bit." "I'm a little overwhelmed," Claire said. "I need to go back to the hotel and binge-watch 'Real Housewives.' I want to see white women fight over nothingness." Hoping for a chance The truth is, according to Claire, not longing for different lungs for most of her life served her well. She was able to "work with what I had in front of me," she said, rather than fixate on what she didn't have. She also suppressed that part of herself that might have simply dreamed of something more. "If I had told myself things could be better than they are now, I think I would have driven myself crazy with frustration and jealousy over other people's lives," she said. In changing her mind, she said she had to swallow some of her pride and "open this floodgate of emotion that I kept really deeply buried." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. A slew of tests still awaited Claire, but she was now all in. She had opened herself up to the possibility that life -- for her -- could be different and not as challenging. "For the first time ever, I'm going there, and it's really scary," she said. "Now that I actually want something better, what if it doesn't happen? What if I don't get it? What if it goes wrong?" The pressure is on, and Claire can only hope that she will be given her chance.
(CNN) The path from rugby into American Football has been well trodden in recent years. Earlier this month, former Worcester Warriors lock Christian Williamson-Scotland signed with the Pittsburgh Steelers through the NFL's International Player Pathway. Last year, Alex Gray -- formerly of the England sevens team -- joined the Atlanta Falcons through the same system. One gridiron gladiator, however, went the other way. It was Tevaughn Campbell a now-unattached defensive back and punt-returner who set out to represent Canada in the World Sevens Series. Sevens is a reduced version a rugby, with seven players on each time instead of the usual 15. "I've personally never had any experience of playing any rugby until this season, in December," Campbell reveals to CNN. His brother had played the other oval-ball game at high school, but Campbell had always been put off by the legacy of scars and bruises his brother was left with thanks to rugby. Instead he focused on track and field and, later, football. So how did he get involved with sevens? Campbell explains: "A former player (Robin McDowell) came up to me at university, in Regina. He was preaching his case, trying to get me to try out for the team. "I rejected him a couple of times because I didn't want to play rugby; I didn't like the sport. It was probably a little too rough for me -- I was obviously thinking more about 15s at that point. I didn't even know sevens existed. McDowell then invited Campbell to the Vancouver leg of the Sevens World Series, an offer that was accepted. There, he met the Canadian team's head coach Damian McGrath who suggest Campbell join the team in Hong Kong and Singapore. "Being me," said Campbell, "I didn't turn that down so I went there and had a great experience and I decided to come back this year and try it out myself." Campbell turning out for the Montreal Alouettes in the CFL. Learning the rules Last year, Campbell found himself listed as 23rd man for two series legs in Asia, though he did not feature. Having seen the energy and atmosphere of a sevens event first hand, he then witnessed Canada win a World Series leg for the first time in its history, in Singapore. He was impressed. It is understandable that Canada would court the 24-year-old flier. Campbell is honest enough to see that his country wish to find a crossover star like Perry Baker, who is currently leading try-scoring charts for the USA. Campbell is quicksilver. "I have a knack for breaking records," he calmly states. At school he broke a 60m sprint record. He won a university track final one off-season. Perhaps most impressive, though, the University of Regina alumni broke the 40-yard dash record at the Canadian Football League Combine, screaming in at 4.355s in 2015. Of course, you can have all of the physical tools needed to succeed at a sport. It does not guarantee you will shine. So once Cambell decided that he would play sevens before returning to the CFL, the learning curve began its steep upward climb. "My first tournament was a development one in Dubai, and for me even just going to Dubai was an eye-opener," says Campbell, who had only ventured out of North America for the first time the year before. "Then stepping on the field for a new sport -- not knowing any of the rules really -- it was definitely different. "The main hurdle was just learning the rules. In some games I'd literally stand on the field and ask the ref, 'What's going on?' Because I had no idea. "I'd be asking players during the game, 'Okay, what's happening now?' I picked it up pretty fast and the coach offered me to come on the World Series stage." JUST WATCHED Fiji and rugby sevens: A perfect combination Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fiji and rugby sevens: A perfect combination 23:14 Which all sounds like an impressive turnaround, but there have been misunderstandings too, which Campbell is able to laugh about now. "At one point the ref called for a penalty. I wasn't very familiar, but he blew the whistle and put his arm up," he explains. "I had the ball for some reason, and I heard everyone say 'Kick it and go!' So I tapped it on my foot and ran for the end zone. There was a moment of pause, where I started running and then stopped, and everyone else started stopping on the field because they were confused about why I was stopping. It was a domino effect." Campbell scored. A happy moment, but one made all the sweeter, he says, because fans from all over were cheering for him while he had a maple leaf on his chest. Looking for a team Campbell was called in for his first series leg in Hamilton. He scored his first series try, streaking in down the left wing in a substitute appearance. He would feature in five tournaments, with the home leg in Vancouver coming after New Zealand, before stops in Las Vegas, Hong Kong and Singapore. He scored eight tries in 25 appearances. In a flash, the flirtation with rugby is over as quickly as it started. Campbell had signed a fresh contract for the Montreal Alouettes in the CFL but has just been released. He is on the lookout for another team, telling CNN: "Right now, I'm just a guy waiting for someone to pick me up, but the path is the same and the future is bright." It is never a settled life in the CFL. Described by many as "cutthroat", Campbell had his eyes open when he joined out of university. Drafted by the Calgary Stampeders, he has been traded to the Saskatchewan Roughriders and then later the Alouettes, where he was let go in the build-up to their preseason games. "I wouldn't say it's politics, but not a lot of Canadians get a starting position in the CFL," explains Campbell. "Especially at my position, corner. There's not really any starting Canadian corners in the CFL and that's always where I've set my game to: being a starting corner, not a back-up or solely a special teams player. "That's maybe where teams didn't see me in the past. They didn't see a Canadian corner on their defense. So that's kinda where I got bumped around a bit." Asked if he will continue in gridiron, rather than rugby, he replies: "As of right now, yes." JUST WATCHED Fiji's spectacular sand dune workout Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fiji's spectacular sand dune workout 01:30 However, he had previously told CNN: "Would I consider a switch back after (football)? I don't know. We will have to see where the ball rolls. I'd definitely give the sevens serious consideration. It's a great programme with a great group of guys and I think I could really fit in the rugby world."
International Animal Rescue Dr. Karmele Llano Sanchez leads a team in Indonesia that rescues and rehabilitates orangutans, many of which have fallen victim to forest destruction driven by consumers' desire for palm oil. Dr. Karmele Llano Sanchez was working as a vet on the Indonesian island of Borneo when she was called to treat an orangutan called Jojo. It was an experience Sanchez says changed her life forever. Jojo was being kept illegally as a pet, and when Sanchez found him he was chained up by his ankle and surrounded by litter and dirty sewage water. She broke open the chain and gave him some medication. But once she was done, she had to put the chain back on and leave Jojo because there was nowhere to take him. This encounter, back in 2008, drove her to set up a center to rehabilitate orangutans. A year later, she went back to get Jojo. After years of mistreatment and poor nutrition, he was disabled and had been left unable to survive in the wild, but he would never be chained up again. Today, Sanchez’s team of more than 250 people at the Indonesian branch of International Animal Rescue is on the frontline of rescuing and rehabilitating vulnerable orangutans on Borneo before releasing them — when possible — back into the wild. BBC/International Animal Rescue Baby orangutan Udin is rescued from the illegal wildlife pet trade. BBC/Alejo Sabugo/International Animal Rescue Since the explosion in the use of palm oil in 2000, Borneo has lost 20,000 square miles of forest. While some brands proudly advertise their use of sustainable palm oil — meaning production has to meet certain environmental and labor standards — in reality, there’s no such thing, Sanchez says. “Sustainable? I mean, monoculture cannot be sustainable, period,” says the 39-year-old, shaking her head. “If you maybe ask me about a more environmentally friendly palm oil, yes, it would be possible. Although at the moment it does not exist.” The work Sanchez and her team does is messy, complicated stuff that involves bringing together companies, government authorities and communities in an effort to get primates back to their natural habitats — even if this isn’t everyone’s priority — and ideally prevents the need for any rescue efforts to start with. Sanchez is adamant that while this kind of cross-sector work is hard, it is vital since rehabilitation and reintroduction efforts alone are not a solution. “It’s like when you are sick and you get a [painkiller] — you treat the symptoms but you don’t really solve the root of the problem. You can be treating the symptoms forever, right?” she says. The answer, says Sanchez, lies in the private sector’s willingness to take the environment into account long before any forest destruction has occurred, to ensure orangutans’ habitat is not destroyed. While some companies have realized that it’s good for them to explore more sustainable ways of development, there are still so many that just don’t care, she says. Then there’s the problem of companies relying on International Animal Rescue to remove orangutans once they have cut down forest. “It’s good that they call us [when they need help],” Sanchez says. “But, on the other hand, they should have never cleared forest where there were orangutans in the first place. We want to protect the animals, we want to save the animals, but we don’t want to be like a garbage cleaning service for these companies, you know: ‘I clear everything and then I find a couple of orangutans and then you come and pick them up. Problem solved!’ Right?” BBC/International Animal Rescue Gatot, a young orphan, receives medical care. Ninety-five percent of animals arriving at the International Animal Rescue's Indonesia center are orphaned orangutan babies. Individuals have a role too — “you know, us, normal people,” Sanchez says. As palm oil consumers, we all need to put pressure on the private sector to do the right thing because we have power. If we stop consuming items, the whole system collapses. “We can’t continue consuming as much as we do and pretend that we are going to protect the environment, it’s just not possible,” she says. “Chocolates, ice cream, snacks, Doritos — you know, you can live without them.” Sanchez is hopeful there’s still time to do something if we act fast. “We are this generation of people seeing this massive extinction of wildlife species happen, you know,” she says. “It’s kind of at our fingertips and we are able to do something about it. Maybe it will be too late for the next generation. That’s a big responsibility. But it’s also a good feeling. That’s what keeps us going.” BBC/International Animal Rescue After humans, orangutan babies have the longest childhood in the natural world.
Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Robert Mugabe is sworn in for his seventh term as Zimbabwe's President in August 2013. He resigned Tuesday, November 21, after nearly four decades in power. Hide Caption 1 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe gestures towards the media in Geneva, Switzerland, at a 1974 conference convened to address the civil war in Rhodesia. After being imprisoned for 10 years in Rhodesia, Mugabe attended the peace talks as a leader of the guerrilla movement ZANU-PF (Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front). Rhodesia was the state that eventually became Zimbabwe. Hide Caption 2 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe speaks to the press in Geneva in 1976. The following year he was elected president of ZANU-PF and commander-in-chief of the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army. Hide Caption 3 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe holds a news conference in Salisbury -- now Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe -- in March 1980. He had just been elected as the first prime minister of Zimbabwe, helping to form the new country after British rule of Rhodesia came to an end. Hide Caption 4 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe From left, NBC News moderator Bill Monroe, Newsday's Les Payne, the Chicago Sun Times' Robert Novak and NBC News' Garrick Utley speak with Mugabe during an episode of "Meet the Press" in 1980. Hide Caption 5 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe speaks with his first wife, Sally, during an event in Salisbury in 1980. The pair were married until Sally died in 1992. They had one son, who died at age 4. Hide Caption 6 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe holds hands with Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi at the Organization of African Unity summit in August 1982. Hide Caption 7 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe meets with French President Francois Mitterand in Paris in 1982. Hide Caption 8 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe is seen with Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in New Delhi in 1983. Hide Caption 9 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe walks hand in hand with American civil rights activist Jesse Jackson during the Summit of Non-Aligned Countries, which Harare hosted in 1986. Hide Caption 10 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe delivers a speech in Harare in August 1986. Hide Caption 11 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe poses for a photo with other leaders at a Commonwealth of Nations meeting in London in 1986. Pictured from left, in the back row, are Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, Commonwealth Secretary-General S.S. Ramphal, Australian Prime Minister Robert Hawke and Mugabe. In the front row, from left, are British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, Bahamian Prime Minister Lynden Pindling and Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda. Hide Caption 12 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Britain's Queen Elizabeth II toasts Mugabe during a banquet in the Queen's honor in Harare in October 1991. The Queen had last visited the territory that became Zimbabwe in 1947. Hide Caption 13 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe US President Bill Clinton gestures while talking to Mugabe after a White House meeting in Washington in May 1995. Hide Caption 14 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe marries Grace Marufu on August 17, 1996. Earlier in the year, he was re-elected President after all of his opponents dropped out of the race. Hide Caption 15 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe British Prime Minister Tony Blair talks with Mugabe in October 1997, before the start of the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting. Hide Caption 16 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe speaks during the Southern Africa trade and investment summit in Windhoek, Namibia, in October 2000. Earlier in the year, he implemented a controversial land-reform program that saw the seizure of land from some 4,000 white farmers. Hide Caption 17 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe and Cuban President Fidel Castro are seen in Havana, Cuba, in September 2005. Hide Caption 18 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe South African President Jacob Zuma walks with Mugabe at Harare International Airport in March 2010. Hide Caption 19 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe addresses the 65th session of the United Nations General Assembly in September 2010. Hide Caption 20 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe cuts his birthday cake with his wife, Grace, and son Bellarmine Chatunga during celebrations in Harare in February 2011. Mugabe was turning 87. Hide Caption 21 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Robert and Grace Mugabe arrive at the Vatican for the beatification ceremony of John Paul II in May 2011. Hide Caption 22 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe delivers a speech at his party's annual national conference in December 2012. He vowed to overhaul business laws to require 100% black ownership of firms. Hide Caption 23 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe The Mugabes attend Pope Francis' inauguration Mass in March 2013. Hide Caption 24 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe and Chinese President Xi Jinping participate in a signing ceremony in Beijing in 2014. Hide Caption 25 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe speaks at the ZANU-PF party's annual conference in December 2016. The party endorsed Mugabe as its candidate for the 2018 election. Hide Caption 26 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe reviews the guard of honor during Zimbabwe's 37th Independence Day celebrations in April 2017. Hide Caption 27 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe kisses his wife during Independence Day celebrations in April 2017. In early November, the sacking of Mugabe's longtime ally and vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, was seen as a move to potentially clear the way for Grace Mugabe to succeed her 93-year-old husband. Hide Caption 28 of 30 Photos: Political life and career of Robert Mugabe Mugabe arrives to preside over a student graduation ceremony at Zimbabwe Open University in November 2017. It was his first public appearance since the military seized control of the nation and placed him under house arrest. Hide Caption 29 of 30
David R. Wheeler is a freelance writer and a journalism professor at the University of Tampa. Follow him on Twitter: @David_R_Wheeler . The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) Unless you've been living in a nuclear fallout shelter (remember those?), you're aware that we're celebrating Back to the Future Day. That's right, it's here: The date that Marty McFly and Doc Brown traveled to in the DeLorean in the 1989 Robert Zemeckis film, "Back to the Future Part II." Finally we have the rare opportunity to confirm whether a famous movie's predictions actually came true on a certain day: October 21, 2015. While the movie nailed certain aspects of our time (including flatscreen TVs, nostalgia for the '80s, and even a successful Chicago Cubs season), we can be glad that not all the movie's predictions came true. We're definitely better off without the following inventions: Jaws 19 In a memorable scene, a holographic advertisement for Jaws 19 terrifies Michael J. Fox. In the real-life fourth installment of the shark franchise, "Jaws: The Revenge," we're already forced to accept the existence of sharks that roar, sharks that follow people to the Bahamas, and sharks that have vendettas. The tagline for "Jaws 4" was "This time it's personal." Which invites the question: What absurdities would we be subjected to in the 19th installment? Sharks that leave a horse's head in your bed to "send a message"? We're better off not knowing. Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Apple Watch – The Apple Watch , which will be available in April, can receive phone calls and send messages like an iPhone. It can also track fitness data and even pull up emails and some apps, including CNN. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Google Glass – Google Glass is an augmented-reality headset that can take photos and videos, provide navigation and keep track of reservations and bookings. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Ralph Lauren Polo Tech Shirt – Wear this shirt, and information tracking your activity, breathing and cardiac rates is streamed to your smartphone and tablet via Bluetooth. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Hush smart earplugs – Developed as the world's first smart earplugs, Hush claims to filter unwelcome sounds while allowing important phone calls and alarms to intrude. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel 1Voice beanie – The 1Voice beanie is a warm, wireless way to listen to music. Bluetooth headphones built into the knit hat stream music from your device. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Yelp Monocle augmented reality apps – Yelp Monocle overlays the real-world view through your mobile device's camera with labeled restaurants, shops, bars, landmarks and attractions. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Flight Tonight: Last-minute bookings – Next year will see more apps like Flight Tonight and Hotel Tonight, which minimize planning and make it faster and easier to travel on a whim. Hide Caption 7 of 7 Dehydrated pizza "Boy, oh, boy, Mom," Michael J. Fox says to Lea Thompson in BTTF's version of 2015. "You sure can hydrate a pizza." But in the real 2015, everybody knows that moisture is the worst thing about microwaving a pizza. To avoid soggy slices, even the busiest and laziest people of 2015 take the extra couple of minutes to warm up a pizza in an oven (toaster or conventional). If you think microwave pizza is bad, you would be sure to hate the Black and Decker food hydrator. Flying cars Everybody loves the flying cars in "Back to the Future II," but did you notice the floating Hill Valley welcome sign? It says, "Please fly safely. Ejection seats save lives." Ejection seats? You mean I have to parachute to the ground any time I have a fender bender? Just to get to work a couple minutes faster? Thanks — I'll stick with my old-fashioned terrestrial Toyota. Sleep-inducing gadgets In "Back to the Future II," the filmmakers already anticipate the problem with mass-marketed gadgets that induce sleep. In fact, the movie never once shows the devices being used for their only legitimate purpose: curing insomnia. Instead, they're used to knock people out and make them forget that something happened. For example, Elisabeth Shue, who plays Marty McFly's girlfriend (and later wife), asks one too many questions about her future upon entering 2015. Wanting her to think it was all a dream, Doc Brown puts her to sleep with the sleep inducer. Then they leave her in an alley! Not cool. Imagine being knocked unconscious any time you get too curious about something. Any time you're an inconvenience to someone. Any time you hear a secret you're not supposed to hear. Boom, you're out for hours. People would clearly get carried away and the streets would be strewn with the passed out. Small wonder the EZ Sleep hasn't made it into reality. Voice-activated light fixtures In "Back to the Future II's" version of 2015, we don't flip light switches. We say, "Lights on," and the lights come on at the sound of our voice. But the movie already anticipates the unintended consequence: Any time we happen to use those words in a sentence, the house thinks we're giving it a command. You couldn't say, "Honey, can you make sure to turn the lights off before you go to bed." If you did, the light fixture's voice-activation system would misunderstand you and turn off the lights prematurely. Maybe it would be better to have some other sound command -- say, clapping your hands? Too late, this invention already exists -- remember The Clapper? -- and it was already being parodied in the 1980s. Buy one if you want, but it's hard to improve on a light switch. It works just fine. Hovering robot photographers In "Back to the Future II," automated hovering cameras are so prevalent that they can even be relied upon for news footage, such as when Griff Tannen and his gang of bullies cause a "hoverboard rampage" that destroys the front of the Hill Valley courthouse. Good thing we don't have to worry about drones taking constant surveillance of our lives ... right?
(CNN) Amid the twists and turns of a tumultuous year, readers came to CNN Opinion for context, insight and fresh perspectives on politics and social issues worldwide. The presidential election was clearly a dominant topic of interest, but stories on culture, climate change, and how to be a family in a divisive and sometimes dangerous time in the world also drew avid readership. Here's a selection of some of the most popular opinion pieces of 2016. The opinions expressed in these commentaries are solely those of the authors. Roxanne Jones: Beyonce gets Super Bowl show right February 9 "There were nods to Michael Jackson, to Black Greek step shows, to Malcolm X and a salute to the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Black Panthers. For a minute, watching Beyonce and those strong black women sporting black berets and big afros march out onto the field, I forgot I was watching a Super Bowl performance. For the first time I felt like I wasn't just a spectator of the game but that the game had become a part of my black experience in America. With just a few lyrics, Beyonce connected with black women everywhere. Her performance became personal." Read more here Roxanne Jones, a founding editor of ESPN Magazine and former vice president at ESPN, has worked as a producer and as a reporter at the New York Daily News and The Philadelphia Inquirer. David Axelrod: A surprising request from Justice Scalia February 14 "Justice David Souter, Scalia's longtime colleague on the court, had just announced his retirement, creating a vacancy for President Obama to fill. Scalia figured that as senior adviser to the new president, I might have some influence on the decision -- or at least enough to pass along a message. 'I have no illusions that your man will nominate someone who shares my orientation,' said Scalia, then in his 23rd year as the court's leading and most provocative conservative voice. 'But I hope he sends us someone smart.' A little taken aback that he was engaging me on the subject, I searched for the right answer, and lamely offered one that signaled my slight discomfort with the topic. 'I'm sure he will, Justice Scalia.' He wasn't done. Leaning forward, as if to share a confidential thought, he tried again. 'Let me put a finer point on it,' the justice said, in a lower, purposeful tone of voice, his eyes fixed on mine. 'I hope he sends us Elena Kagan.'" Read more here David Axelrod is CNN's senior political commentator and host of the podcast " The Axe Files. " He was senior adviser to President Barack Obama and chief strategist for the 2008 and 2012 Obama campaigns. Jay Parini: Why the hate for Hillary Clinton? Jay Parini March 20 "Her achievements in Congress and at the State Department can't be denied, though many will try. Don't forget her courageous China speech on the rights of women, her aggressive work on climate change and her skill as a senator in guiding the Children's Health Insurance Program through Congress. She helped to negotiate a ceasefire with Hamas during a tense moment in Israel. I think of her successes in forging alliances in South America, Africa and Asia, and her part in establishing tough sanctions against Iran. That's only the beginning. And yet people hate her. Her negative ratings, in fact, have been shockingly high for someone this close to the nomination of her party. Indeed, one of the most frequently posed questions to the candidate herself is some version of 'Why don't they like you?' Of course, Republicans have known for a long time that Hillary Clinton is an unusually strong candidate, and this terrifies them. So they have seized on talking points like Benghazi (for which she bears little or no responsibility) and her email scandal. On the latter, even columnist Ruth Marcus -- certainly no fan of Clinton's -- recently wrote in The Washington Post that 'there is no clear evidence that Clinton knew (or even should have known) that the material in her emails was classified.' As we've seen, neither Benghazi nor the email trouble are likely to put off Democratic voters, who regard them as Republican talking points." Read more here Danny Cevallos: Abby Wambach's arrest for a crime that makes no sense Danny Cevallos April 4 "Why? Why do people who otherwise would never commit a crime somehow get arrested for drunken driving? Sure, it's a question of personal responsibility, but why is it so much easier for upstanding citizens to refrain from all other crimes, except DUI? It's the mixed signals. Most other criminal activity unambiguously violates our social norms. There's no 'gray area' when it comes to smoking meth at a cocktail party, for example. Most crimes are also social faux pas, such that you would neither engage in, nor tolerate the behavior from a peer. With DUIs, however, there are mixed messages. Most people are surprised to learn that it's not actually illegal to drink and drive. Technically, it's only illegal to drive while 'impaired' by alcohol. What does 'impaired' mean?" Read more here Marilyn Wann: What Amy Schumer should have said Marilyn Wann April 8 "Fat is a floating signifier. It can attach to anyone at any moment. Ask Amy. But why do we care what anyone weighs? Well, the stakes are high when being thin or fat determines whether you'll be loved, respected, hired, promoted, dated, married, able to travel, buy clothes, see people who look like you in mainstream media, get unbiased medical care, and count as a person -- or not. (And these are just a few examples.)" Read more here Marilyn Wann is a longtime fat activist and weight diversity speaker, author of the "FAT!SO?" book, and creator of Yay! Scales. John D. Sutter: 'There's no more land' John D. Sutter April 8 "Shortsighted government officials have strangled the Mississippi River with so many dams and levees that it doesn't deliver the soil that's needed to rebuild the marshes. Instead, all of that useful dirt, which normally would be deposited slowly as the river wiggles across a wide and free delta, is rushed out to the bottom of the sea. Oil and gas canals and pipelines, meanwhile, have carved up what's left of the marsh, making it more vulnerable to collapse." Read more here John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion who focuses on climate change and social justice. Follow him on Snapchat, Facebook and email Stephanie Coontz: The awkward truth of 'make America great again' Stephanie Coontz April 29 "Idealizing the era when America was the economic powerhouse of the world, bipartisanship reigned and male breadwinner families were the norm requires overlooking much else. Nostalgia is never random. We cherry-pick the past, highlighting what we like and leaving out the things we don't, even if they were closely intertwined. So when Trump says let's "make America great again" and Clinton says let's make it 'whole again,' they neglect to mention how much the prosperity of the postwar era depended on a system of regulation and taxation that neither of them shows any inclination to reinstate." Read more here Mel Robbins: Show rape victim's letter to your sons Mel Robbins June 7 "We women know all too well about victim blaming, alcohol as an excuse for assault. It's not alcohol that's raping women; it is men. Our sons, all the young men in our lives need to be told: Alcohol is never an excuse. As the victim wrote: 'Is it a factor? Yes. But alcohol was not the one who stripped me, fingered me, had my head dragging against the ground, with me almost fully naked.'" Read more here Mel Robbins is a CNN commentator, legal analyst, best-selling author and keynote speaker. Michael D'Antonio: Donald Trump isn't crazy Michael D'Antonio August 2 "As 16 Republican primary opponents failed to stop Trump's momentum, the idea that he is crazy seemed to miss the mark. The word "crazy" conjures up a person who is so plagued by delusions, or perhaps hallucinations, that he makes no sense at all. Consider his success, both before and during his pursuit of the presidency, and it's hard to argue that Trump suffers from such a profoundly distorted view of reality. In fact he has long demonstrated a keen awareness of how our society worships celebrity and rewards those who can attract the limelight and hold its focus." Read more here Michael D'Antonio, the author of "The Truth About Trump," is writing Trump Watch, a series of columns on President-elect Donald Trump for CNN Opinion. Peter Bergen: Bin Laden's spectacular miscalculation Peter Bergen September 8 "For so long the two great oceans of the Atlantic and the Pacific had protected America from its enemies, but no more. Yet, for all their tactical success the 9/11 attacks failed strategically and, in the end, achieved precisely the opposite of what Osama bin Laden had intended. There are, of course, differences between the post-World War II era and the post 9/11 era. The long-term aftermath of Pearl Harbor was not only a decisive Allied victory in the war but also decades of American leadership and dominance. After its initial success in Afghanistan following 9/11, victory was not decisive for the United States. Instead, American forces continued to be at war with a number of shadowy jihadist groups, most recently ISIS, and this now seems like a quasi-permanent state of affairs that could persist well beyond the next presidency." Read more here Peter Bergen is CNN's national security analyst, a vice president at New America and a professor of practice at Arizona State University. He is the author of "United States of Jihad: Investigating America's Homegrown Terrorists." CNN Commentators: Who won the first presidential debate? Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton shake hands at the first presidential debate on September 26, 2016, in Hempstead, New York. September 27 David Gergen: "By all traditional standards of debate, Mrs. Clinton crushed. She carefully marshaled her arguments and facts and then sent them into battle with a smile. She rolled out a long list of indictments against Donald Trump, often damaging. By contrast, he came in unprepared, had nothing fresh to say, and increasingly gave way to rants. As the evening ended, the media buried him in criticisms. Even so, I doubt she has put him away." S.E. Cupp: "In contrast, Trump mostly did the job he had to do. To move undecideds, he had to hammer one point home: Clinton is a politician who doesn't get it. Over and over again, he attacked her as more of the same, out of touch, and a politician who hasn't gotten it right. He didn't go after her character or personal issues, for the most part -- which voters know well. She outmanned him on specifics and details. But his attacks were far more effective than hers." Read more here Dean Obeidallah: Trump's beef with SNL is no laughing matter Dean Obeidallah October 16 "[Trump's] message was clear: Mock me, and I might sue you. Couple all this with Trump's calls during this campaign to change the libel laws to make it easier for him to sue media outlets who unfairly criticize him, and this is no laughing matter. Would a President Trump use the apparatus of the federal government -- such as the Federal Communications Commission -- to intimidate comedians and dissuade them from mocking him? Yes, I know we have a First Amendment, but alarmingly I bet there are Trump supporters who would go along with anything Trump asks for, even if it was flat out unconstitutional. (Trump has bragged as much, claiming he could shoot someone on Fifth Avenue and his supporters would stand with him.)" Read more here Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, writes frequently for CNN. He is co-director of the documentary "The Muslims Are Coming!", editor of the politics blog "The Dean's Report" and a columnist for the Daily Beast. Sally Kohn: A letter to my daughter about Trump Sally Kohn October 24 "You know some of what Donald Trump has said and done in this campaign. You hear it on the news, kids talk about it at school. 'I hate Donald Trump,' you said the other day during breakfast. Please don't. Don't hate one sad man with a lot of power and little self-restraint. And don't hate the people who are enthusiastically supporting him. Donald Trump is running a campaign of hate, and hate cannot be solved by hate but by empathy and understanding." Read more here Sally Kohn is an activist, columnist and television commentator. Paul Callan: Time for FBI director Comey to go Paul Callan October 28 "Trashing the Justice and FBI rule books in the interest of 'openness' is likely to put the FBI front and center in one of the most contentious presidential races in recent US history. J. Edgar Hoover loved to influence elections, but he had the good sense to keep quiet about it." Read more here Paul Callan is a CNN legal analyst, a former NYC homicide prosecutor and currently is "of counsel" to the New York law firm of Edelman and Edelman, PC, focusing on wrongful conviction and civil rights cases. Tim Naftali: The secrets first ladies always keep Tim Naftali November 5 "With all the attention on former first lady Hillary Clinton's handling of classified information at the State Department and the possibility that Melania Trump might become first lady in 2017, it might be a surprise to some readers that historically, FLOTUS has had access to classified materials without ever having to get a security clearance. The first lady has access to secrets at the discretion of POTUS, the president of the United States. And the president has enormous authority over the use and distribution of the nation's secrets." Read more here Tim Naftali is a CNN presidential historian and clinical associate professor of history and public service at New York University and was the founding director of the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum. Ana Navarro: I'm voting for Hillary Clinton ana navarro November 7 "I had hoped that a week before the election, Trump would be losing Florida by a large enough margin that my vote wouldn't matter. But darn it, my home state is too close to call. Florida could be the decisive state (again) as to who ultimately becomes the next president of the United States. I thought back to the 2000 election, which was decided by 537 votes in Florida. I thought about how I would feel if the same thing happened in 2016. I thought and I thought and I thought.... Then I cast my vote for Hillary Clinton. Let me rephrase that. I cast my vote against Donald Trump. I did it without joy or enthusiasm. I did it out of civic duty and love for our country." Read more here Ana Navarro, a Republican strategist and commentator, was national Hispanic campaign chairwoman for John McCain in 2008, national Hispanic co-chair for Jon Huntsman's 2012 campaign and was supporting Jeb Bush's candidacy for 2016. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Timothy Stanley: Liberals, chill out about Trump victory Timothy Stanley November 9 "Everyone should calm down. The last few hours have actually shown that the transition from Obama to Trump will be smoother than folks fear. Trump's victory speech was his best yet: gracious and even touching." Read more here Drawing the drama: Cartoonists from around the world on Trump's defeat of Clinton J.J. McCullough is a political cartoonist and commentator currently living in Toronto, Canada. November 9 Cartoonists around the world react to the outcome of the 2016 U.S. election. View gallery here Jonathan Tasini: Tear up the Democratic Party Jonathan Tasini November 9 "There is only one silver lining in yesterday's election results, which will allow a con man, a pathological liar, a bold racist and a sexual predator to succeed the first African-American president. We can now launch a difficult but urgent mission — shaking the Democratic Party down to its foundation, ejecting the failed Bill/Hillary Clinton economic and global worldview and standing up for a set of populist, sound economic and foreign policy principles that could earn majority support." Read more here Van Jones: The messy truth that divides Trump and Clinton voters Van Jones November 12 "I got tired of just sitting on the CNN set, talking about Donald Trump voters. So, days before the 2016 election, I decided to fly into a battleground state -- and talk to them. I visited Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, where a major battle was fought in America's Civil War. I wanted to know one thing: Are we on the verge of another civil war? What I learned surprised me. The answers are even more important, now that Trump has won." Read more here
New York (CNN) They arrive by the hundreds, walking through metal detectors, placing their belongings on conveyor belts to be X-rayed. They're passing through intense security in search of serenity. It's a warm New York evening, and these seekers are streaming onto the North Lawn of UN Headquarters to take part in the International Day of Yoga, a mass celebration of a discipline believed to date back thousands of years. Among them are seasoned yogis in matching outfits who stand on their heads to relax. A landscape contractor in jeans kicks off his work boots and admits he's never done this before. A mother brings her two young children, determined to give them a break from their iPads. Sirens and traffic roar along nearby streets as a guru from halfway around the world takes the stage with his right-hand colleague and other like-minded guides. For at least a few hours, Rishikesh has come to the Big Apple, and I'm here to reclaim something I once found. On mats dotting the UN's North Lawn, participants try to block out city noise in search of peace. Rushing toward tranquility A sea of pedestrians moves me along. Surrounded by strangers, many wearing earbuds or staring at gadgets, I cross against reds, too impatient to stop and stand still. Yoga on the lawn is still 24 hours away, but I can't wait. I'm off to see two people who once helped change my life. They're spiritual leaders from the largest ashram in Rishikesh -- one of India's spiritual hot spots -- and they're here to carry the message of yoga's power. Hindu pilgrims have long made their way to Rishikesh, considered the birthplace of yoga -- and the yoga capital of the world. So have Westerners seeking enlightenment, ever since the Beatles went in 1968 to study Transcendental Meditation with the late Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. I went for several weeks in 2014 to write about those who flock there, what they're searching for and what they find. What I didn't see coming was a transformation of my own, one that freed me of long-held hurts and opened my heart in new ways. That gift stayed with me for a while. But 8,000 miles away and three years later, ugly politics, threats from social media trolls, even the mundane challenges of rush hour gridlock can chip away at tranquility. There's no tranquility for the man on a bicycle who screams obscenities at the taxi driver who cut him off. Or the woman who groans and rolls her eyes when a slow-walking tourist blocks her path. The honks of cars sound an urban symphony as I turn the corner toward the building where my Rishikesh friends are staying. I stroll by the tony Plaza Hotel, peer up at addresses along Central Park South and pass a Trump property. I laugh to myself, thinking about the contrast between where they've come from and where they've landed. Nearly 3,000 people registered to take part in International Day of Yoga activities at the UN. 'Face your book' The first time I spoke with Swami Chidanand Saraswatiji, we sat on thin mats atop a cow-dung floor inside the ashram he leads in the foothills of the Himalayas. This time, inside a devotee's apartment, the floors are pristine marble, and we sink into designer furniture while overlooking Central Park. Swamiji, as I came to know him, wears saffron robes, and his smile is as gentle and warm as I remember. He places his hands over his heart in greeting. We speak about what he hopes to convey during this trip, and his wisdom and gift for wordplay is still evident: "The internet can take you to the world of information, but the 'inner-net' can take you to the world of inspiration." "Going on Facebook is not enough. You have to face your book also. When you face your book, you know where you stand." "Whether you're becoming bitter or better, whether you're in peace or in pieces ... you have to watch. You have to introspect." I learn that this man, who spent eight years of his childhood meditating alone in a jungle, has been to New York City 90 times -- but has never visited the Statue of Liberty. I can't help but ask what he makes of this chaotic concrete jungle. "Chaos is not outside of us; chaos is inside of us," he answers. "In the chaos also you can find calmness. In the midst of the noise also you can be noiseless. That's what yoga gives you." This sounds great, but what if the world around you, the work you do, the tensions of your nation fuel your anxiety? How can you possibly find calmness or manage your stress? Focus on "self-management," Swamiji, 65, says with a knowing grin. "All is not well until you are well. Simple!" I tell him I need to work harder to follow his advice. "Rishikesh," he answers. "Recharge your batteries and come back." Swami Chidanand Saraswatiji traveled from the mountains of the Himalayas to the skyscrapers of Manhattan to help lead the festivities. Interrupting the calm It was easy to stay grounded in a place where my days revolved around yoga classes, meditation, meetings with holy men in caves and sessions with gurus. But holding on to what I felt in Rishikesh ebbs and flows back home, which is what brings me to the UN's North Lawn. Tables are covered in products that promise fulfillment. There's a cookbook for the body and mind, a stack of Ayurvedic soaps for holistic cleansing and a copy of "Meditation & Mantras" by Swami Vishnu Devananda. People get situated on their yoga mats. But before they embrace stillness, they bat around the names of their favorite studios, pass around pamphlets for retreats and offer CDs bearing titles like "The Miracle of You." A woman wearing a hijab sits, legs crossed and eyes closed. A businessman in a suit can't resist glancing at his phone and tiptoes away to make a call. Another woman begins to weep while thanking the manager of a Catskills ashram for changing her life. On the stage overlooking the lawn, Swamiji sits cross-legged in his chair. He's joined by other yoga experts, a kirtan master and musician, a spoken-word performer and Sadhvi Bhagawati Saraswati, a woman he works with who's become his sidekick of sorts. Sadhviji, as I call her, emerged a friend and a touchstone during my time in India. Originally from Los Angeles, Sadhviji has called Rishikesh home for more than 20 years. She shares Swamiji's spiritual outlook as well as his commitment to protecting the environment. She also directs the International Yoga Festival each year at their ashram, Parmath Niketan. She speaks of yoga's ability to promote balance, an ethical life, and physical and mental well-being. How one gets to yoga -- through meditation, chanting or physical exertion -- is less important than getting there. "Yoga," which translates to "union," is "the union of my breath to my body, the union of the self to the divine," Sadhvi Bhagawati Saraswati said. She likens it to the sacred river Ganga, or the Ganges, which is believed to give life, rejuvenate and liberate. It changed her from the moment she arrived in Rishikesh and dipped her feet in the water. It doesn't matter if you walk into the Ganga from a sandy beach, step into it from marble steps or leap into it from a rock, she says. "The goal is to get in. It's the same with yoga." Across the North Lawn, the crowd of seekers follows the cues from the teachers on stage, closing their eyes, bringing themselves into the moment. My eyes remain open as I take notes, and between their moments of calm, I feel the vibrations of my work phone as new emails come in. The seekers follow instructions, drawing energy toward their spines and connecting "to the universal energy of the breath." My phone vibrates, alerting me to a bombing in Brussels. They twist their bodies into triangle pose, exhale slowly and relax. My phone reminds me of Otto Warmbier, the American who died the day before after being released from North Korean custody. They pray for peace and listen to reminders to "meet hate with love, meet fear with compassion." My phone prompts memories of Michael Brown, the unarmed black 18-year-old whose wrongful death lawsuit has just settled. "Be a yogi that dares to care about the happiness and freedom of all beings without exception," one of the teachers says to those assembled. My phone tells me more about Nabra Hassaneen, a Muslim teen who was killed near a Virginia mosque days before. Between ceremonies and talks, under the guidance of yoga experts and spiritual leaders, New Yorkers reached for balance. Fluffing my aura Sadhviji and I exchange texts the next morning. I hope to steal some time with her and Swamiji before my flight home. I feel like I need more, that there are questions I still want answered. I don't even know exactly what I want to ask, but anything else they can give me, I'll take. The wi-fi seems to be down, and my cell is running out of juice. I pack up, count my electronics -- two phones, a laptop, a FitBit -- but don't seem to have enough chargers. The results of a special election back home bring a flood of Facebook posts, replete with expletives and testimonies of tears. My phone buzzes: It's my chiropractor and massage therapist, reminding me it's time for a tuneup. On the television, morning news pundits debate the future of health care in the US. I imagine that while all of this goes on, Swamiji is deep in meditation and completely unfazed. I return to the UN to attend a "Conversation on Yoga for Health," but also because I'm told I can meet with Swamiji after the talk. Security won't let me on the chamber floor, though, so I sit in my seat up above and watch. A woman beside me, visiting from California, offers me her CD of music and a link to her website. She calls herself a "Shamanatrix" and is in the business of promoting a "Love.o.lution." She hands me an "aura fluffer" wand, colorful feathers connected to a looped pipe cleaner. By waving it around my head and body, she shows me, I can offer myself kindness and compassion. She hopes it will make me smile. It does; I can't stop grinning. Swamiji and Sadhviji are joined by other headliners, including an acclaimed Bollywood actor, a CEO who's brought mindfulness to the workplace and a former NFL player-turned-yogi. An official from the World Health Organization lays out yoga's benefits, how it helps reduce high blood pressure, strengthen pulmonary function and prevent depression and stress. Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Swamiji, who likes to say "meditation is the best medication," recalls the saints who lived in caves in the jungle where he meditated as a boy. "No Pizza Hut, no Starbucks, no Amazon.com -- nothing was available," he says. "Nothing was set in their lives ... but personally, they were set. Their minds were set; their hearts were set; they were happy all the time." And as a result, he says, their health was set. What he sees today is a world in need of an adjustment. "In our lives, everything is set, but we are upset," he says. "What is the key to being set and healthy in body and mind? The answer and the secret is yoga." We don't need to retreat to caves in the mountains above Rishikesh to find the answers, he says. "You can create your own cave right here." The session ends, and people swarm around them on the chamber floor. I stand from my seat and watch. I'm too far to reach them and know, given my flight back home, that I won't have time to wait. But I also realize I don't require any more guidance from my Rishikesh teachers. These past few days have reminded me: What I need is already inside me. So with my "aura fluffer" in hand, I walk back onto the city streets, where I stop at every red light, stand still, smile and breathe.
March 14 is #MyFreedomDay, when students around the world are holding events to highlight modern slavery. To mark the day, CNN is showcasing some of its recent journalism on human trafficking. Long pants tucked into her shoes. Long sleeves tucked into her gloves. And layers of material covering her entire head and face, a protective shield against the brutal south-Florida sun. Today, the oppressive heat is her only worry. Yet that wasn't the case when Carrera first came to the United States from Mexico 20 years ago, a migrant farmworker in search of a better life. She was just 14 years old, scared, vulnerable, and alone. "I was very young, I didn't have my father or mother, no one," she says. Carrera says she found work on a farm, and it wasn't long before her supervisor tried to take advantage of her. He promised her an easier job inside a warehouse. But as soon as she got in his truck, she says, he drove to a remote part of the farm and tried to force her to have sex with him. "He told me if we don't do this the easy way, we'll do it the hard way. I was afraid and trembling," she says. Now 35, Carrera recalls with gratitude the farmworker who heard her screams and rescued her before she could be raped. She also remembers how they both were fired the next day. Protections against that type of labor abuse against migrant workers in the United States were virtually non-existent in the 1990's. "No one knew anything about rights," Carrera says. "We didn't seek out what our worker rights were. We just accepted everything they told us and just did our jobs." Coalition of Immokalee Workers In 1993, a group of American activists and migrant farmworkers decided to change that. They founded the Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW), a non-profit grassroots organization dedicated to improving wages and working conditions of migrant farmworkers. The organization is named after the migrant town of Immokalee, Florida, the epicenter of tomato production in the United States. Ninety-percent of all winter tomatoes consumed in the US come from Florida. Immokalee also used to be known as ground zero for modern day slavery. CIW co-founder Laura Germino explains how the group evolved into an anti-slavery organization. "We began to come across situations where workers were being held against their will, where they weren't free to leave," Germino says. A truck on a tomato farm in Immokalee. The first case they discovered was eventually prosecuted in a federal case called U.S. vs Flores. "In that one, we found out that workers were being held by armed guards, prevented from leaving, pistol whipped, some sexually assaulted, and it was a crew of 500 workers," says Germino. Germino says she and her colleagues initially thought it was just a single case. An anomaly, she says. "But then we came across another case and another case and that's how I became introduced to labor trafficking." Since that first case, the CIW has uncovered and helped the US government successfully prosecute eight cases of slave labor on Florida farms. The cases are highlighted in a mobile museum that Germino uses to educate people about the issue. JUST WATCHED Slavery in the food supply chain Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Slavery in the food supply chain 04:42 Fair Food Program Today, the CIW's focus is no longer uncovering cases of slavery. Instead, it's aim is preventing them from happening in the first place through an initiative it calls the Fair Food Program. Participants in the program, which include 90% of tomato growers in Florida , allow CIW staff to come onto their properties and hold mandatory education sessions for all employees. The workers receive booklets that outline their rights and a hotline to call if they experience violations. The growers also agree to regular third-party inspections of their farms. When they visit, a team of auditors speaks confidentially with at least 50% of workers to ensure their rights are being respected. The Fair Food Program operates in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Maryland, Virginia and New Jersey. Laura Safer Espinoza is a former Supreme Court Justice for the State of New York. She now spends her retirement in Florida, running the Fair Food Standards Council, which oversees the audits. "Places that were called ground zero for modern day slavery by federal prosecutors a few years ago are now cited by national and international human rights experts as the best work environment in U.S. agriculture," she says. Judge Laura, as she is affectionately called by everyone who works with her, says the code works because it was created by the very people it is designed to protect. "The code that we get to monitor and enforce is unique because it was written by workers who are the ultimate experts on human rights in the agricultural settings in which they work." The program also includes real market consequences for farms if violations are found. Workers pick tomatoes on a farm in Immokalee, Florida. As Judge Laura explains, "if a participating grower is not complying with the code of conduct after multiple chances and opportunities with the Fair Food Standards Council to work toward compliance, ultimately they are suspended. That means they cannot sell their produce to now 14 major retail buyers." Those buyers include many of the biggest fast food restaurants and grocery stores, including McDonalds, Taco Bell, Whole Foods Market and Walmart. As part of the agreement, they all pledge to purchase tomatoes only from Fair Food Program farms. They also agree to pay a penny more per pound of tomatoes, money that goes directly to the farmworkers as a line-item bonus. In some cases, it doubles their paychecks. Alejandrina Carrera appreciates the extra money, but is most grateful for the change in how she is treated on the job. "You're not going to be harassed, you're not going to be insulted, you're not going to be forced to work. There's more respect now," she says. Carrera came to Immokalee dreaming of a better life for herself. Today she dreams of a better life for her three children. They are all in school and she wants them to go on to college and have careers. Her youngest kids are seven and nine. The oldest is 14, the same age she was when she first came to Florida.
Washington (CNN) Dietitians have been consulted in the White House kitchens. Steak has been swapped out for Dover sole, his favored fish. And hamburger buns have been discarded -- or at least the tops have. President Donald Trump, who embarked upon a mission to shed 10 to 15 pounds in January , has acknowledged in private that he needs to lose weight. Prodded along by his White House physician and the knowledge he is approaching obesity, Trump agreed earlier this year to alter his diet and begin a new exercise plan. Five months into his regimen, people close to him say they've detected small changes, mostly in how he eats, that reflect a desire to follow doctor's orders. But they haven't identified a discernible exercise routine beyond the weekend rounds of golf the President enjoys with the help of a cart. Trump himself has continued to downplay the importance of exercise, even questioning whether it presents more risk than reward. On Wednesday, Trump will publicly tout the importance of physical fitness during an event on the White House South Lawn, accompanied by his daughter Ivanka and major sports figures such as legendary New York Yankees relief pitcher Mariano Rivera and Misty May-Treanor, a three-time Olympic gold medal winning beach volleyball player. Their goal is to reverse the trend of declining participation in youth sports through initiatives and research that reinforces the importance of staying active. Whether Trump will hold himself up as a model remains to be seen. When Ivanka Trump was questioned about Trump's fitness routine during a briefing call on Tuesday, a White House press aide told reporters she'd left for another meeting. And the White House did not respond to questions about the President's personal fitness plan. In January, Dr. Ronny Jackson, the White House doctor, acknowledged to a room full of reporters that Trump didn't exercise regularly. "Some people exercise, some people don't," Jackson said. "Some people just haven't done that as part of their routine. And I would say that's the category he falls in right now." He described a joint effort with Ivanka Trump and first lady Melania Trump to improve the President's diet and introduce him to a workout plan, all with the goal of pulling him back from borderline obesity. At his physical exam in January, the 6-foot-3-inch Trump weighed 239 pounds, according to his doctor. Among the steps Jackson detailed: enlisting a nutritionist to meet with White House chefs to advise on cutting calories; renovating the gym adjacent to the Lincoln Bedroom in the White House residence to Trump's specifications; and crafting an aerobic exercise schedule that "spares his joints and is healthy for him." "He's more enthusiastic about the diet part than the exercise part, but we're going to do both," Jackson had said determinedly. In March, Trump nominated Jackson to serve as secretary of Veterans Affairs. A month later, the nomination was withdrawn after allegations Jackson had mismanaged the White House Medical Unit. The administration said he would return to the medical unit but not as the President's physician. How that affected the implementation of Trump's weight-loss routine isn't clear. Trump himself has told confidants that rounds of golf and smaller portions of food will help him shed the dozen or so pounds he'd hoped to lose by the start of next year but has downplayed the role exercise can play in improving his health. Diet JUST WATCHED Lewandowski reveals Trump's McDonald's diet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lewandowski reveals Trump's McDonald's diet 00:57 Inside the White House kitchens, chefs have been instructed to find ways to limit fat and calories in the dishes they prepare for Trump's meals, including the lunches and dinners he convenes almost daily with members of his Cabinet, lawmakers, outside advisers or visiting foreign dignitaries. One swap repeat diners at the White House have noticed: Dover sole has replaced well-done steak, which Trump famously slathers with ketchup as his favorite meal. Earlier this year, a registered dietitian was dispatched from the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center to consult with White House kitchen staff on reducing calories and fat in Trump's meals, according to a person familiar with the matter. Vegetables have begun appearing on his plate, though it's not clear how much of them he is eating. Outside the White House, Trump is largely left to his own devices for meals. Visiting the Trump International Hotel for dinner, Trump has typically asked for his favorite steak. But on one recent visit he chose the Dover sole instead (it sells for $64 dollars a plate and comes laden with soy brown butter and capers). JUST WATCHED Dinner, dessert and deals at the White House Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dinner, dessert and deals at the White House 01:44 At Mar-a-Lago, Trump is often seen filling his own plate on the buffet line, which is full of calorie-rich options such as mashed potatoes and roast beef. At his golf clubs in Florida and outside Washington, Trump is known to eat a cheeseburger inside the clubhouse after a round. One modification a recent lunch companion noticed: Trump's burger came with only half of the bun. "I do that, too, sometimes," Rudy Giuliani, the President's private lawyer, told The Washington Post . "It's a good way to do it." Nutrition experts say a realistic weight-loss plan would begin with cutting 500 calories from Trump's diet every day -- which, if sustained, could help him shed one pound per week. Although an imperfect calculation, such a modification would present an attainable goal, said Lisa Drayer, a nutritionist and author. "You really have to start slowly. It's not realistic to just revamp your diet overnight," said Drayer, who suggested adding more fruit and cruciferous vegetables, such as broccoli or Brussels sprouts, would make the President feel full even as he consumed fewer calories. "It wouldn't take much for him to just make a few key changes, like that steak or the burger. That could be the deficit right there." "He really needs someone to sit down with him and give him a personalized approach so that it will stick with the long term," Drayer said. "I think it's never too late to change, but your metabolism does slow down with age." Exercise Since Jackson revealed his diet and exercise aspirations for Trump, the President has downplayed the prospects of incorporating a new workout plan. "See, a lot of people go to the gym and they'll work out for two hours and all," he told Reuters in late January. "Then they get their new knees when they're 55 years old and they get their new hips and they do all those things. I don't have those problems." Instead, Trump said he could burn calories playing golf -- which he does nearly every weekend with the assistance of a cart. "Like people get on a treadmill, I go play golf," he said. Trump's most recent predecessors were exercise fiends, a trait Trump has not continued. President Barack Obama played basketball until his knees began troubling him, switching later to cardio work on machines in the White House residence. President George W. Bush asked for workout equipment, including an elliptical machine and dumbbells, to be installed in a poolside cabana steps from the Oval Office, and a fold-up treadmill to be placed aboard Air Force One -- tasks carried out by Ted Vickey, who ran the White House Athletic Center for 11 years. "(Trump) doesn't see exercise as much as a value as probably the last 5 presidents have," Vickey said, noting that President Bill Clinton took jogs through the streets of Washington and that President Dwight Eisenhower -- a golfer -- established the President's Council on Sports, Fitness & Nutrition, which is the group organizing Wednesday's event on the South Lawn. JUST WATCHED Trump golfs with Tiger Woods, Dustin Johnson Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump golfs with Tiger Woods, Dustin Johnson 02:30 Described by the White House as a "field day," the gathering will feature stations focused on different sports, including soccer, track, flag football -- and the President's favored activity, golf. "This is the President's Council of Sports, Fitness & Nutrition, so the President's definitely going to be there to make remarks and uplift this collaboration," said Holli Richmond, director of the council, who laid out a multi-pronged approach of research and initiatives meant to culminate before the 2020 Olympics. If he were advising Trump on a fitness regime today, Vickey proposed a golf-centric program that incorporated cardiovascular exercise on an elliptical machine, strength training, and stretching -- including yoga, if Trump was game. "You've got to find something they love doing. I would say 'Mr. President, work with me for four months and I'll drop your handicap 4 strokes," said Vickey, now a professor of kinesiology at Point Loma University in San Diego. "He's been like this for 70 years. We're not going to change him overnight." "Unfortunately," Vickey said, "you have to trick him into exercise."
President Donald Trump on Thursday issued “a full pardon” to Dinesh D’Souza, a conservative activist and provocateur who regularly peddles conspiracy theories. D’Souza pleaded guilty in 2014 to violating campaign finance laws with an illegal donation to a GOP Senate candidate. Trump announced the pardon in a tweet, claiming D’Souza “was treated very unfairly by our government!” Will be giving a Full Pardon to Dinesh D’Souza today. He was treated very unfairly by our government! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018 Trump believes that D’Souza was “a victim of selective prosecution for violations of campaign finance laws,” according to a statement from the White House explaining the pardon. It also noted that D’Souza “accepted responsibility for his actions, and also completed community service by teaching English to citizens and immigrants seeking citizenship.” All of Trump’s presidential pardons have been outside the standard process for issuing pardons run by the Department of Justice’s Office of the Pardon Attorney. He pardoned a former Navy sailor, Kristian Saucier, after Saucier made his case on Trump’s favorite TV network, Fox News. In August, Trump pardoned right-wing, anti-immigrant sheriff Joe Arpaio. Arpaio was found guilty for criminal contempt after violating a federal judge’s order instructing him to stop racially profiling Latino drivers, whom he and his office regularly rounded up because he suspected them of being undocumented immigrants. The president also issued a pardon for Scooter Libby, who was convicted for lying and obstructing justice after the leak of then-covert CIA agent Valerie Plame’s identity. Last week, the president issued a posthumous pardon to boxing champion Jack Johnson, which came at the recommendation of actor Sylvester Stallone. A DOJ spokeswoman confirmed to HuffPost that D’Souza’s pardon did not go through the Office of the Pardon Attorney. She declined to comment further. Also on Thursday, Trump said on Air Force One that he’s considering issuing pardons or commuting sentences for former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich (D) and cook and TV personality Martha Stewart. Blagojevich was on Trump’s “Celebrity Apprentice” TV series, and Stewart hosted “The Apprentice: Martha Stewart,” a spinoff of Trump’s “The Apprentice” series. YOU CAN TAKE THE BOY OUT OF THE GHETTO...Watch this vulgar man show his stuff, while America cowers in embarrassment pic.twitter.com/C9yLG4QoOK — Dinesh D'Souza (@DineshDSouza) February 18, 2015 Later Thursday, D’Souza thanked Trump for the pardon and criticized “Obama and his stooges.” Obama & his stooges tried to extinguish my American dream & destroy my faith in America. Thank you @realDonaldTrump for fully restoring both — Dinesh D'Souza (@DineshDSouza) May 31, 2018
Ken Langone, the entrepreneur who helped start Home Depot forty years ago, thinks the US economy is "fabulous" and now firmly back on track following the 2008 financial crisis. In an interview with CNN's Christine Romans, Langone said he'd give the economy a grade of "B." And he gave a chunk of the credit for the economy's health to President Donald Trump -- specifically his administration's efforts to pull back on some of the regulations put into place by President Barack Obama. "There were so many regulations that were arbitrarily put in that serve no benefit to anybody, least of all the American people. [Trump] took some of those away. That's helped. Big time it's helped. And he's gonna do more of it," Langone said. Langone also said he's extremely bullish about the outlook for the US economy and stock market over the long haul. "How do I feel about the market? It's American. I love it," he said that "over the very long term" people will do extremely well with stocks as long as investors are patient and know the risks they are taking. "I'm optimistic. I think, frankly, over the next 25 years, America owns the world," he said, adding "don't ask me what's gonna happen 25 days from now! But over 25 years, I think we're gonna be fit as a fiddle." Langone thinks that President Trump's pro-business approach will help the economy further, adding Trump's outsider persona is a plus. "I just came from Washington. The Republicans are as terrified of him as the Democrats are! Why? Because he ain't one of them. He's him!" Langone said. "Like him or not, and I'm not gonna comment, I will tell you this, I'm thrilled with some of the stuff he's getting done!' Related: Former Home Depot CEO Bob Nardelli says tax cut will drive innovation Langone also thinks that the trade gamesmanship between the United States and China will eventually end. He predicts both nations will reach a deal beneficial to each of them. "It's in both of our mutual interests. Both of us'll get hurt by a trade war," he said. But he agreed with President Trump that the trade deficit between the United States and China needs to narrow. "China needs to understand that we can't have a deficit like we do," he said. Langone did have some concerns about what's going on in Washington though -- most notably the fact that the federal government is planning to spend a lot more even as it lowers taxes. "This spending bill is a travesty. An absolute travesty," Langone said. "This is huge sums of money! Where the hell is it gonna come from? We're living in glory days right now because everybody's hoping to take our bonds and take our currencies, but that could stop," he added. Still, Langone doesn't seem overly worried about the future of America. He thinks the United States is still a great place for companies to do business, pointing to the success of Home Depot (HD), which is now one of the 30 elite stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is worth nearly $220 billion, as a sign that capitalism works. "We have a fabulous economy. We have capital market system that works. We've proven that again and again and again," he said. Related: How businesses are really spending their tax cuts But Langone, who has a new book out called "I Love Capitalism!: An American Story," also noted that there are many retailers which aren't winning, saying that this is "the dark side of capitalism." That is what also makes a free market economy great though, Langone said. "I love everything about capitalism. I like the fact that I could lose as well as win," he said, adding that losing is "a distinct possibility" in capitalism. So what's his big advice for anyone in retail who wants to be a winner instead of a loser? "The most important thing about winning is recognizing who your customer is and making sure they understand nobody matters in your business setting more to you than them," Langone said.
Charlize Theron knows motherhood can be really, really challenging. “Raising kids is not through rose-colored lenses. There is real grit to it,” the actress and mother of two told Us Weekly on Wednesday at the premiere of her new movie, “Tully.” Theron, the single mother of Jackson, 6, and August, 2, said she often relies on parenting advice from her own mom, Gerda Maritz. “I think every piece of advice has been really good from my mom,” she said. “She’s like, ‘You know, what, tomorrow is going to be a new day. It’s not the end of the world.’” She added: “Sometimes I lose my mind especially in a car, like when we’re on a road trip or something, She’ll look at me and laugh ... Then she’ll say, ’It’s just a moment. It’s going to pass. It’s going to pass.’”
Story highlights A judge recently ruled in favor of Maine truckers because of a missing Oxford comma John McWhorter: Oxford commas ward off ambiguity, but need not be used all the time John McWhorter teaches linguistics, American studies, philosophy and music history at Columbia University and is the author of "Words on the Move." The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) A recent court case seems like a victory for fans of the grand old Oxford comma. To many, it feels natural to write "Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Cleveland." But just as one may feel lazy saying "My brother and me went home" rather than "My brother and I," there is a sense that it is more proper to write "Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, and Cleveland," inserting a comma after the item before the last one. And people advocating for the Oxford comma have a point now and then. If you were a trucker reading that union rules deny you overtime pay for "the canning, processing, preserving, freezing, drying, marketing, storing, packing for shipment or distribution of agricultural produce," would you consider yourself due overtime payment nevertheless for distribution? That is, as opposed to packing things for shipping and distribution? John McWhorter Truckers for Oakhurst Dairy in Maine have been granted back overtime pay for having distributed product as opposed to packing it, because though the writers of the contract meant that overtime would not be granted for distribution either, this is not clear when there is no comma after shipment. The drivers' lawyer has successfully argued that the contract appears to stipulate that overtime won't be granted for, only, the packing of things for future shipping and distribution. But it's premature to read this as demonstrating that everybody should always use the Oxford comma. What happened here shows, just as defensibly, that the Oxford comma should be used in cases of potential ambiguity. The people who wrote the union contract made a mistake, but not in way that means all of us should feel bad about writing "hamburgers, hot dogs and French fries." We might feel slovenly, however, for writing "I had toast, bacon and eggs and coffee" where one could argue that it's unclear whether the bacon and eggs went together or eggs and coffee did, or "My parents, Mother Teresa and the Pope," which implies a rather stunning parental history in casting those two people as your parents, as opposed to persons in sequence with your parents. Read More
Helen Alvaré is a professor of law at George Mason University who has published widely on issues of marriage, family, parenting and the First Amendment religion clauses. Her recent book with Cambridge University Press is about putting children's interests first in US family law. The views expressed in this commentary are solely hers. (CNN) Politics -- read "political parties and fundraisers" -- largely refuse to make room for pro-life feminism or what it stands for. Notice Democrats' recent spat over whether taking a pro-life stance is an acceptable position for a Democratic candidate. Notice the failure of the Republicans currently in power to push through paid leave for working mothers. As for the media, unsurprisingly, they find themselves attending to the blood sport between Republicans and Democrats -- and not to politicians or proposals possessing intellectually coherent solutions to the problems pro-life feminists care about. So where are the voices and the hopes for pro-life feminism? These reside in less prominent venues than mainstream political parties or publications. You can find them in the minds, convictions and daily lives of millions of women in the United States who support -- without question or conflict -- meeting the needs of both women and unborn children. And you can hear them in the effective leadership of major and emerging pro-life organizations arguing that America can do better for women and children. When I began working in the pro-life movement in the late 1980s, while the "boots on the ground" were often female, the C-suites of organizations like the National Right to Life and Americans United for Life were occupied by men. Today, hands-down, the most visible voices and leaders in the movement are women -- at the National Right to Life Committee , at Students for Life , at Live Action, at Americans United for Life , and at the March for Life In recent years, too, women have begun to spearhead many pro-life groups with explicitly pro-women agendas, which articulate how women's rights are co-extensive with children's rights: Feminists for Life, the Susan B. Anthony List, New Wave Feminists (with the inimitable slogan: Badass.ProLife.Feminist. ), Rehumanize International ("Working to make aggressive violence a thing of the past through education, discourse, and action"), the Sisters of Life (a contemplative order dedicated to the "protection and enhancement of the sacredness of every human life" and providing ongoing support for mothers) and my own organization, Women Speak for Themselves ( Empowering.Local.Voices ). If you're paying attention, it's impossible to miss the trend. At the same time, pro-life feminism is visibly flourishing in the daily lives of millions of women in the US who don't often talk about it. They just do it. I have met them during my travels to 49 states. They include mothers in Denver running a medical clinic for poorer women, a New York City-based editor volunteering with single moms on the weekends, and a pro-life lawyer living in a safe house with traumatized, trafficked women. Often, these women ignore or even abjure the "feminist" label because it is automatically associated with the primacy accorded to legal abortion by groups like Planned Parenthood and other national feminist groups. But many of these women are what I think of as "anonymous feminists" just the same. They know, live and openly articulate women's essential equality and dignity, and women's rights to the same opportunities afforded men. They want these opportunities not only for themselves, but also for their daughters, sisters, and friends. At the very same time, they recoil at the thought of abortion. Not because they are judging the women involved, but because -- as even Justices John Paul Stevens and Ruth Bader Ginsburg have observed in their abortion opinions -- abortion can be "gruesome" and "brutal." The pro-life feminists I know also wonder how any movement consistent with the magnificent bumper sticker that quotes Angela Davis -- "Feminism is the radical idea that women are human beings" -- can advocate destroying other human beings as a "right." They wonder how a movement concerned with the vulnerable can advocate for the right to destroy life at its most vulnerable moment. And it isn't just about the unborn children -- it's about women and families. The pro-life feminists I know and count myself among, ask how women will ever win the political argument to extend social care to more groups of vulnerable people if we draw illogical and cynical lines between "deserving" and "undeserving" human lives. And we cringe at the intellectual vacuity of any so-called "feminism" that would refuse to confront these complex questions head on and would instead divert the public's attention to advertising campaigns about "choice" and "letting women decide." Pro-life feminism may be poised finally to "get its due," however, because Americans are growing frustrated with two of the biggest social problems at the top of the pro-woman, pro-life agenda: sexual equality and work-life balance. Regarding employed mothers, we are long past due in the US for the realization that you don't get a next generation, let alone a healthy one, if capitalism doesn't make room for women's ceaselessly expressed preference to do justice to their families first, while also fulfilling the demands of employment. Regarding sexual equality, many supporters of legal abortion would reduce the solutions to contraception, abortion and "consent." Yet these leave all the burdens to women -- women alone with the abortion decision, women in ambiguous, casual encounters, usually alone with the decision of how far to go sexually, and women dealing with the fallout from harassment and misconduct. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Pro-life feminists understand that pro-woman answers rather involve building trust between men and women and remembering that sex has weight because it is organically linked to matters like love, kin, children and future. My work at WomenSpeakforThemselves.com , for example, includes women sharing information and stories about the harms women suffer from uncommitted sex and synthetic contraceptive hormones. They also report the richness of sex within a committed versus merely "consensual" sex framework. We hope to influence the next generation of women to understand that women deserve much much more than "consent." Now that we have a "post-Republican" President and a Democratic Party that needs to reach beyond its base to win again, maybe there is more room in politics for a pro-life feminism. Millions upon millions of American women sure hope so.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement detained and quickly deported an undocumented man on Wednesday, leaving behind his four children as well as his six nieces and nephews who were recently orphaned when their parents got into a car crash fleeing ICE. The arrest of Celestino Hilario Garcia, 33, was the type of ICE action that takes place every day. He has a criminal record for driving under the influence and was previously deported to his native Mexico. It was clear that ICE already had had him in its sights. When ICE agents went to an apartment complex in Delano, California, in mid-March, they were looking for him. But given what happened next that day, Hilario Garcia’s wife and local advocates condemned ICE’s decision to move forward with his removal. On March 13, ICE agents went looking for Hilario Garcia and instead followed another man who fit his description: his brother, 35-year-old Santos Hilario Garcia, who was in the car with his wife, 33-year-old Marcelina Garcia Profecto. The two sped to get away from ICE, then veered off the road and crashed their car. Both of them died at the scene. “We’re still not recovered from the loss, and now they separate us,” said Celestino Hilario Garcia’s wife, who requested anonymity because she fears for her safety, in an interview in Spanish. The immigrant and farmworker communities in the majority-Latino city were outraged after the deaths, accusing ICE under President Donald Trump of being overly aggressive in following the couple. Some residents said they were afraid of leaving their homes after what happened. On Wednesday morning, Celestino Hilario Garcia had just gotten into his car to go to work when ICE agents arrived and yelled at him to put his hands up, his wife said. She and her youngest child, a 4-year-old girl, watched it happen while the other children were still asleep, she said. By the end of the day, ICE had deported Hilario Garcia back to Mexico. His wife said he decided not to fight his removal because it could lead to his being locked up for years while the case played out — something he felt he could not do. He told her he didn’t feel like a criminal and just wanted to give a better life to his kids, she said. “It’s not fair that this happened ― first to my brother-in-law and now what they did to my husband,” she said. Santos Hilario Garcia and Garcia Profecto left behind six children, who range in age from 9 to 18 years old. Celestino Hilario Garcia’s wife said the children are very close with her family. “Yesterday when I spoke to them, they started to cry,” she said, herself in tears. “I have no idea how my life will be from now on,” she added. “How to help my kids get by. Right now I’m the only one, also caring for my nieces and nephews.” An ICE spokesperson confirmed that deportation officers from ICE’s Fugitive Operation Team arrested Celestino Hilario Garcia on Wednesday. ICE previously granted him voluntary return to Mexico ― an alternative to deportation ― seven times from 2002 to 2009, at which point an immigration judge ordered his removal, and he was deported, the spokesperson said. After re-entering the U.S., he was deported a second time a month later, according to ICE, which also said he has three criminal convictions for driving under the influence. His wife said those convictions took place in 2011 and 2012. After Santos Hilario Garcia and Garcia Profecto died, ICE blamed California’s so-called sanctuary policies limiting police cooperation with deportation efforts, saying the state’s laws lead to more enforcement conducted in communities and arrests of people who were not initially their targets. The United Farm Workers Foundation, which has been active in advocating for immigrants’ rights, condemned Celestino Hilario Garcia’s deportation as a new blow to the farmworker community.
“Honestly, sometimes I think I still have to deal with it,” she told Harper’s Bazaar . “I think people have to talk about it more because it’s almost like the fourth trimester, it’s part of the pregnancy. I remember one day, I couldn’t find Olympia’s bottle and I got so upset I started crying because I wanted to be perfect for her.” So what is the fourth trimester? A full pregnancy is divided into three trimesters, which each lasts between 12-14 weeks. The term “fourth trimester” is a phrase sometimes used to describe the first six to eight weeks after a baby has been born; a period when women are adjusting to motherhood, dealing with the aftermath of birth and the reality of having a newborn baby. Elizabeth Duff, senior policy advisor at the National Childbirth Trust (NCT), tells HuffPost UK: “It often takes new mums a while to recover from the physical and emotional demands of pregnancy and childbirth, while at the same time caring for a baby. This period is sometimes referred to as the ‘fourth trimester’. “[This] can leave mothers feeling emotional, irritable and depressed and there can then be a ‘roller-coaster’ of ups and downs as the enjoyment of parenthood on some days contrasts with anxiety, fatigue and frustration on others.” Kate Pinney, a Tommy’s midwife, says the fourth trimester can sometimes go on for longer than eight weeks and can vary between women: “Each experience is different and can be heavily influenced by many factors such as how you felt during your pregnancy, your labour and birth experience, but also what support networks you have around you.” How may new mums feel during the fourth trimester? Guilty. Pinney says Serena’s comments about “wanting to be perfect” for her baby are not uncommon as parents often speak about feeling guilty for a variety of reasons, such as not feeling like they are able to settle their baby, having struggles feeding, or not taking their baby to the latest group or activity. Lonely. “Early parenthood can also be a lonely place, and for many speaking out about the difficulties of this time is still a taboo,” says Pinney. “Saying that it is tough, is no reflection on how much you love or care for your baby, it is just reality.” Distant. For some, bonding with their baby does not always come straight away and that can come as a shock, explains Pinney. If a mother doesn’t experience the rush of love shortly after she gives birth, she may find the next few weeks challenging. Low. Pinney says many new mums experience episodes of low mood and changing emotions during this period, often due to a lack of sleep and altering hormones. Is this linked to postnatal depression? Duff says if low mood and psychological symptoms worsen, it can be due to something more serious such as postnatal depression (PND) or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). “Recent research by NCT found that half (50%) of mothers experienced emotional problems at some time during pregnancy or within the first year of their child’s birth,” she says. What can mums do to make the fourth trimester easier? - Remember, it doesn’t just affect mums. Parenting author, Sarah Ockwell-Smith, has previously discussed how the fourth trimester can be exhausting because newborns hate being put down in this period of their life. “Understanding this and treating newborns as if they were still ‘in utero’ for their first three months of life can make life much easier for new families,” she wrote. She explains how when a mother is pregnant, the baby is in constant physical contact with her. After the birth, the baby has to get used to lots of different sounds, spend time flat on their back rather than tightly curled and start to experience sensations of hunger and thirst. She argues, therefore, that women should replicate the baby’s “womb world” post birth, which can help reduce the amount of time they spend crying and increase how long they spend asleep, giving parents more time. Find out how here. - Don’t suffer alone. To combat loneliness, new mums are encouraged to join expectant and new mum groups, which are run through the National Childbirth Trust (NCT). Branches across the UK organise relaxing and informal get-togethers for new parents. Many of the groups are free, while others charge only a nominal fee to cover costs. Depending on the local branch there are separate groups for parents with newborns and groups for toddlers. Find out more here. Mums should also speak to their health visitor after giving birth about how they are feeling. Duff says the NCT are campaigning for improvements to the six-week postnatal check-up to reduce the number of mothers who don’t get diagnosed and treated properly if they experience PND during the fourth trimester. Find out more here. For information and support: Mind: A mental health charity there to make sure no one has to face a mental health problem alone. Call: 0300 123 3393. Pandas Foundation: Charity to support and advise any parent who is experiencing a perinatal mental illness. Call: 0843 28 98 401. Mothers for Mothers: A postnatal depression support group with information and peer advice. Call: 0117 975 6006. PNI: A website run by women who have suffered from postnatal illnesses to share personal experiences and offer support. Serena Williams is a member of a board of advisers to Oath, HuffPost’s parent company.
Washington (CNN) Prison reform doesn't seem to be the highest priority for President Trump, but one member of a reality star power couple and one member of his family are doing their best to make it one. Kim Kardashian plans to meet today at the White House with Jared Kushner to discuss the topic and advocate for the pardon of Alice Marie Johnson, a 64-year-old woman serving a life sentence for nonviolent drug offenses. It's an issue that both Kardashian, who learned about Johnson watching a video from Mic, and Kushner, whose father served time in a federal prison, have taken up. The Senate is currently debating a prison reform bill that passed the House this month But prison reform is an issue that could be a winner. Kushner said as much in a Wall Street Journal op-ed in April. "This is an issue that could unite Americans across the ideological spectrum," he wrote. "Sensible and just prison-reform legislation would direct government resources toward reducing crime, enhancing public safety and increasing opportunity." Kushner noted in the op-ed that the US has 4% of the world's population but more than 20% of the world's prisoners, and attempted to tie his father-in-law's "forgotten men and women" line to the issue. Politically, both Kushner and Kardashian could use good news. A January CNN poll found Kushner had a 17% favorable rating, while his wife Ivanka's was at 41%. And the couple spent the day split screen with violence in Gaza at the opening of the US embassy in Jerusalem earlier this month. CNN doesn't have polling on Kardashian's approval, but a poll earlier this month on her husband Kanye West found 52% of Americans who heard his comments about politics and slavery thought he made them for publicity. Should Kushner and Kardashian convince Trump to pardon Johnson and make meaningful progress on prison reform it would not only help incarcerated Americans, but it could also provide Javanka with a much-needed policy win and give Kim K a political narrative reset.
Real estate mogul Stephen Ross explains how getting fired from Bear Stearns was the best thing that ever happened to him.
Jeff Yang is a frequent contributor to CNN Opinion, a featured writer for Quartz and other publications, and the co-host of the podcast "They Call Us Bruce." He co-wrote Jackie Chan's best-selling autobiography, "I Am Jackie Chan," and is the editor of three graphic novels: "Secret Identities," "Shattered" and the forthcoming "New Frontiers." The opinions expressed here are his own. (CNN) Every year since 1978, May has been commemorated as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month -- the official, federally designated period for the nation's 20 million residents of Asian descent. President Jimmy Carter first proclaimed it as such. However, this year's celebration is unique. That's because May 2018 quietly marks our golden anniversary: the 50th birthday of "Asian-American." And as far as we Asian-Americans have come over this past half-century, it's time to figure out who we are. Of course, the history of Asians in America goes back further than 50 years -- hundreds of years in fact. The arrival of Asian immigrants to what would eventually be called America can be traced back to 1587. That's when a group of "Luzon Indians" from the Philippines, sailing on a Spanish galleon, disembarked in Morro Bay, California. Later, in 1763, Filipinos would establish the first permanent Asian enclave in the Americas, the town of St. Malo in Louisiana. A century later, the first mass waves of migration from Asia to the United States would begin as Chinese, Japanese, Koreans, Filipinos and Indians arrived in vast numbers to work the plantations of Hawaii and the gold mines and railroads of the continental West. But these are all markers of arrival, not shared identity. These early sojourners and settlers may have lived and worked side by side, socialized with another, even intermarried; nevertheless, they saw themselves through the lens of separate ethnicities and national origins. Early immigrant Asian groups considered themselves as different from one another as they were from the white majority around them, with discrete languages, customs and cultural traditions, and in some cases, histories of prejudice or mutual hostility. During World War II, when Japanese-Americans were showered with hostility and eventually, unconstitutionally incarcerated by the US government, some Chinese even wore buttons stating, "I am Chinese," to avoid being accidentally targeted by the hysteria. That sense of separateness was defiantly challenged 50 years ago this month, by a group of young activists whose gathering in a cramped Bay Area apartment ended up transforming the course of a community. Back then Yuji Ichioka, a graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley, and Emma Gee scoured a published roster of fellow students who had protested against the conflict in Vietnam and contacted every individual with an Asian-sounding last name, inviting them to become charter members of a new organization: the Asian American Political Alliance. It would be the first public use of the coinage "Asian American" -- inspired by the term "Afro-American" adopted by black activists of the era -- as an umbrella term for Americans with roots or origins in the continent of Asia. As the name of the group implied, it was an explicitly political statement, stating in essence: We are united by our status as Americans, yes, but we are also claiming a new identity, nominally rooted in geographic origins, but more accurately anchored in our common desire for empowerment, for a united voice of protest, for social change. Both the term and the idea behind it, that the diverse array of Asians in the United States should be seen as an amalgamated entity -- a race -- rapidly gained momentum. In 1977, the federal Office of Management and Budget formally directed that aggregate statistics should be gathered on "Asians and Pacific Islanders," which led to Asian-Americans being rescued from the undifferentiated category of "Other" in the 1980 US census. Since then, individual Asian-Americans have increasingly risen into positions of visible prominence and influence. JUST WATCHED Elaine Chao opens up about not having children Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Elaine Chao opens up about not having children 00:34 This month, a group of notable Asian-American business, media and technology leaders, called Gold House , gathered a panel of Asian and non-Asian celebrity judges -- including Olympians Apolo Anton Ohno and Michelle Kwan, Yahoo! co-founder Jerry Yang, Ogilvy & Mather co-chair Khai Meng Tham, super-producer Pharrell Williams, GLAAD CEO Sarah Kate Ellis and Hidden Figures producer Mimi Valdes -- to select and release the A100, a list of the 100 most influential Asian-Americans in our contemporary culture. Looking at the list is eye-opening. In media and entertainment, the co-head and COO of Amazon Studios, Albert Cheng, is named, alongside Netflix's vice president of original documentary and comedy, Lisa Nishimura; Disney's executive vice president of worldwide production, Susette Hsiung; and the president of DC Films, Walter Hamada. The list also features actors such as Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, Mindy Kaling, Constance Wu and Aziz Ansari. The business and tech sections included venture capitalists such as Cowboy Ventures founder Aileen Lee; corporate heads such as SC Johnson's global chief marketing officer Ann Mukherjee, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Google CEO Sundar Pichai; Katrina Lake, the founder of Stitch Fix, an online subscription and personal shopping site; and Chieh Huang, founder of Boxed, an online warehouse. In lifestyle and sports, there's snowboarder Chloe Kim and skater Nathan Chen, restaurateur David Chang and social media superstar Chrissy Teigen. It's a staggering array of talent and achievement. But it's also an overt challenge to Asian-Americans, a community that I described back in 2012 as "very much in beta, and still working out the compatibility issues that come with a rapidly growing and wildly varied installed base." Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook That is because the individual achievements and collective emergence of Asians in the United States can easily paper over the very real issues we face. Anti-immigrant rhetoric increasingly targets new arrivals. The flames of hysteria continue to be fanned against Muslims and those who are simply perceived to be Muslim. National rivalry -- in some political quarters -- with China, and fear of North Korea fuel xenophobic hate. The wealth and privilege of some in our community hide the poverty and isolation of others. Age 50 is when one must truly put away the idle excuses of youth, and stare the reality of one's past achievements, present resources and future responsibilities in the face. It's time for Asian-Americans to come out of beta, and define who we are and where we stand. Will it be with those who are building a better world, or those who are focused on personal enrichment? With those who fight for the needs of the underrepresented, or those who indulge the whims of the entitled? With those who speak truth to power, or those who excuse the lies of the powerful? Many on the A100 roster, and many who are reading this essay, will be around to see our community's centennial. Let's hope that over the next 50 years, we will answer these questions -- and in ways that will allow us to look back on our first century with pride.
Sarah Lenti is a political strategist and policy advisor at SML Advisory Partners. She served as a director on the National Security Council under Condoleezza Rice and worked as a lead researcher for Mitt Romney's 2010 book, "No Apology: The Case for American Greatness." The views expressed in this commentary are her own. This piece is the first of a CNN Opinion series, " What it's like to be me ," which explores the personal struggles Americans face at a time of profound social change. Denver (CNN) It was a year ago when a young woman stopped me in a neighborhood shop. She gazed at my stroller and started crying. She told me how lucky I was to be married with kids. My heart dropped. She didn't know me at all. I am a single mother by choice. Yet I was raised in a Christian, conservative home, where I grew up believing in the traditional family unit. And I was taught that there was an order to achieving it. First, fall in love. Second, marry a man. Third, start a family. Now in my fifth decade, only one has proven true for me -- and it isn't the first. On the day that I turned 30, I journaled that I would think about becoming a mother should I still be single at 38. What that looked like, I didn't exactly know. It was a promise to myself, maybe to God. At the time, I was in a terrible relationship with a man who told me he wanted to be with me, but he could never love me. It was because of those words that I first clung to the idea of motherhood. Maybe a man could deny me love, but he would never deny me a child. Fast forward to my 38th birthday. I was still single, and the world of dating had changed significantly in the last eight years. Tinder and Bumble, the dominant dating apps, offered countless options for single men and women, but made the experience of dating entirely impersonal. Every family is different: Share your story of how IVF, adoption or your unique family structure has shaped your life with #ToBeMe or text/WhatsApp us on +1-347-322-0415 Dating amounted to small talk with a stranger, who you had briefly interfaced with online because you each thought the other attractive. The small talk was a prelude to hooking up, and there were no expectations even of a text the next day. It was brutal. And after trying my hand at it, I was no closer to finding the love of my life or starting a family. If I needed statistics to back me up, I had them. In 2014, marriage was on the decline, as was the fertility rate in the United States. I had one real option left -- and that was to attempt to get pregnant alone. Maybe I didn't deserve a family, or so many of the subscribers to my conservative Christian values might say. And maybe the men with whom I had been involved didn't view me as acceptable wife/mother material. But deep down I felt differently and decided to give myself one shot. And so I started the process of in vitro fertilization (IVF). I was mentally prepared for the physical havoc that would ensue, and I had saved every penny for it -- to the tune of $30,000. Tinder and Bumble, the dominant dating apps, offered countless options for single men and women, but made the experience of dating entirely impersonal. But why didn't I adopt? After all, even if I were fortunate enough to have a child, the child would be fatherless. And many, myself included, believe this places the child in a precarious situation. That said, at least with IVF my potential child would be biologically related to me, his or her grandparents and cousins. The child might not have a father, but he or she would have a strong bloodline. I hoped this would help ease any future struggle for my child. The IVF experience The very decade I was born into -- the glorious 70's -- ushered in the science and technology that might allow me to conceive. Alone. More specifically, 1978 was the year that the first human being was born through the process of embryo creation outside of the womb, then implantation inside of the womb, pregnancy and successful birth. Since that time, IVF has produced approximately 5 million babies , with nearly 1 million of those being born in the United States. The IVF pool is quite minuscule compared to total US births -- for example, in 2011, only 0.7% of all US births were attributed to IVF. That said, and barely optimistic, I was committed to the process, or so I thought. And yet there I was at a bar in Los Angeles, a month out from IVF, crying in front of two people I barely knew, but knew well enough to unload to. My life was great on paper. I had done all the right things. I went to Stanford for graduate school. I worked at the White House under Condoleezza Rice. I had the opportunity to travel the world. I had loving parents and two wonderful sisters. And yet I felt unloved -- even unlovable. And also greatly conflicted. On the one hand, I was ecstatic -- I was weeks away from my shot at becoming a biological mom. I started thinking about this potential path nine years ago and had been setting aside money for five years. I was in love with idea of having a family and giddy at the thought of the unknown. But there was doubt. Goodness, there was doubt. There was that little voice inside my head -- the voice of my parents and others -- that was very much alive in me. "Why would you purposely bring a child into the world without a father? Are you really that lonely? How would that child feel one day?" Throughout my upbringing, I was told that it's wrong to play God. And, as recently as the previous Christmas Eve, I was told that bringing a child into the world without a father was selfish. My heart and my brain had to fight back. No, I was not that lonely. No, I was not that selfish. Actually, it was waking up single, every single day of my life -- only to be greeted by my career -- that felt selfish. And while I could never speak for the feelings that my future child might have, I took solace in the belief that any child would be happy to be alive if he or she were sincerely loved. Throughout my upbringing, I was told that it's wrong to play God. And, as recently as the previous Christmas Eve, I was told that bringing a child into the world without a father was selfish. As I drew nearer to the implantation date, the prospect of creating a tiny human grew more real and began to override any lingering doubt. And so, on August 29, 2014, I asked my doctor to implant two embryos. He wisely asked me to justify two. I was quick to answer. If I were lucky enough to get pregnant with twins -- what a gift for them. They may not have a father, but they would always have each other. I knew the statistics and did not expect to get pregnant. Given my age and the means of conception, I was praying for the long shot of one, knowing two would be a miracle. The 2014 Assisted Reproductive Technology National Summary Report, as published by the US Department of Health and Human Services, is a humbling reminder of just how small the odds were during the year that I attempted to conceive. In 2014, a woman of my age, using fresh non-donor eggs with no previous pregnancies, had an 18.8% chance of pregnancy resulting in a live birth. When it came to percentages of cycles resulting in twin lives births, the success rate plummeted to 3.7%. Yes, I had a 3.7% chance of success. Choosing a donor Of course, before the IVF process could begin, I had to choose a donor -- and let's just say I took a less than conventional approach. Given my professional background as a conservative politico, I think people expect me to say that IQ, number of educational degrees and political association were at the top of my donor qualifications list. Not the case. I was looking for someone who I would be attracted to if we were procreating in the traditional way. I know this must sound incredibly superficial. But, let's be frank, it's impossible to gauge true intellect or a kind heart by virtue of an online donor search. And so I began my search with a focus on the physical attributes that I have always been attracted to -- namely height and athleticism. Six-foot-2 and toned was my baseline. The donor was a collegiate lacrosse athlete. I was able to see three pictures, from tot to teen, of an adorable boy with an incredible smile, unruly hair and a twinkle in his eyes. (This particular bank did not allow adult pictures of the donor for legal reasons. So, at the end of the day, the attraction part of my search was also a gamble.) I was searching for my version of good genes, who also looks good in jeans -- at least on paper. I finished my search on the scientific side of things. The donor bank I chose provided a full medical history and genetic testing results. Honestly, why wouldn't you opt for a donor with no heart disease, cancer, mental illness or any other serious genetic conditions in his family history? This is the one distinct advantage of going the donor route as opposed to the good old-fashioned route when conceiving. While I haven't polled my married or attached friends, I am 99.9% certain that not a single one queried their partner about the specifics of their family's medical history prior to sleeping with them or accepting a marriage proposal. I was searching for my version of good genes, who also looks good in jeans -- at least on paper. The longest days of my life In early September, my blood work came back with hormone levels signaling pregnancy. I was in shock, but I had eight long weeks to go until seeing if there was a heartbeat or two. I started to take a pregnancy test every evening. It was the longest 56 days of my life. D-Day finally arrived. And, there on the sonogram screen right in front of me, was the most beautiful thing: my child's heartbeat, strong and steady. I had a million immediate questions for the sonographer and started right in. She stopped me, because there was heartbeat number two. Wait, what? I was laughing and crying at the same time. This must be what joy feels like, I thought. The cliché that I despise most is: It will happen when you least expect it. Nonsense. I had gone almost 40 years expecting nothing in terms of dating, love and, God forbid, a husband -- and I received exactly that in return. But suddenly the least expected had happened. I was pregnant with twins. My journal entry from the evening read as follows: Week 8, Day 1: October 6th D Day Dear God: Thank you. Baby A: your heartbeat was 159 today. Baby B: your heartbeat was 168. I love you A & B. Please keep growing. You're looking great. Thank you, God. I pray for their development -- from their fingers to their toes. From brain to nose. I am so grateful for these precious beings. Prepare me to be the strong parent -- fiscally and spiritually -- that they will need me to be. Love you. Photos: I had a 3.7% chance The ever-intense Eli at 3 weeks wise. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: I had a 3.7% chance Eleven-day-old miracles: Week two of 10 at the Rocky Mountain Hospital for Children. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: I had a 3.7% chance Finally home and first nap together. May 22, 2015. (Abel, left. Eli, right.) Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: I had a 3.7% chance Abel and Eli at 6 months strong. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: I had a 3.7% chance Can you believe we started off at less than 3 pounds? Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: I had a 3.7% chance Happy, healthy, precocious and embarking on the terrible (or terrific) 2's. (Abel, left, Eli, right.) Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: I had a 3.7% chance Two years old and two years together. This is our family. This is love. Hide Caption 7 of 7 The Friday of truth On a Friday morning roughly 30 weeks after implantation, something seemed wrong. I had such severe leg cramps that I was crawling around the apartment on my hands and knees. I called an Uber at 8:30 am. Never having taken any birthing classes, I had no idea what the onset of labor looked like. By the time I got to the hospital the pain was so intense that I could barely make it to the door. The Uber driver offered to help me up. I was immediately checked in and within minutes was told that I was 7 cm dilated and would be headed into an emergency C-section. My heart stopped. I was petrified that those little heartbeats were going to stop and that my sons -- my sons -- were not going to make it. I was alone in the pre-delivery room just long enough to run through every awful scenario in my head. And then it was time. Seventy minutes after arrival, I was wheeled into a room with a team of 16 doctors and nurses waiting for me. The sight of this army, the two waiting incubators and all the other metal contraptions made me well up. I had no idea what was going to happen next, but I had never expected it to happen quite like this -- not this early, not with these many medical professionals and not entirely on my own. Eli and Abel have proven to be the embodiment of that saying you always hear -- the hardest, yet best thing I've ever done. Doctors and nurses were working quickly all around me. Epidural, check. Babies' heart rates, check. Slicing me open, check. Ripping two crimson-colored sons out of me at 10:40 am and 10:43 am, check and check. I saw Eli and Abel for a nanosecond before the nurses cut the cords and rushed them to their incubator stations to begin inserting the breathing tubes. They were 10 weeks premature and neither could suck, swallow or breathe on their own. The two teams whisked my babies to the Level 4 NICU (neonatal intensive care unit) without me getting to touch their skin or ask if their vital signs were stable. I did hear them cry, which was a relief. I just wish my sisters had been there to take a picture and help recount what happened. I can't ever get that moment back. Little did I know when I moved to Denver that I would be delivering twins two years later at Denver's premier NICU hospital -- The Rocky Mountain Hospital for Children at Presbyterian St. Luke's I was not able to see my sons until nine very long hours after delivery. I walked into a room with two incubators housing my baby boys, who looked more like starved squirrels than the roly-poly infants that I had envisioned. All wired up, with IVs jutting out of the top of their skulls, they were absolutely perfect. Complete miracles from inception to emergency birth. And, of course, they chose Friday the 13th of March to scare the living hell out of me and fight their way onto this Earth. The next 60 days Two weeks after I was released from the hospital, I found myself sleeping in my Denver home of almost two years, as my boys lived and slept inside NICU -- for 60 days straight. And though I could easily have felt alone -- so removed from my two miracles -- I didn't. Friends and family from across the country constantly checked in on me, calling, texting, writing me words of encouragement. And even once Eli and Abel were out of NICU, loving and supporting friends -- and sometimes even strangers --continued to shower us with kindness and affection. Initially, the NICU team was our rock. These complete strangers became the most significant and consequential people in the lives of my sons during their first two months. I will never be able to appropriately express my gratitude to the nurses and doctors who safeguarded their lives. Several are friends to this day. Then my personal trainer and his wife, the first people to visit me in the hospital, became the most trusted and consistent presence in our lives. From celebrating our birthdays, to helping with our apartment move, to Fourth of July and Super Bowl celebrations, to just being those adult ears that I need -- Adam and Teri have been there for all of it. You wake up every morning with a mandate and desire to be a better parent to your children than you were the day before. The mother of twin boys, who lived steps away from me, became my sanity check. We were pregnant at the same time and delivered within weeks of each other. We met by fluke, thanks to a double stroller sighting in the alley. And the parents of my first employee proved invaluable, babysitting the boys on weekends so I could nap. I can't forget the British transplant, who regularly delivered homemade quiche on weeknights just because. More recently, though, the manager at the Palm (steakhouse) took care of my family. It was Thanksgiving night, and I took the twins for our first holiday fête as a family of three. In one of the most random acts of kindness, the manager worked her way to our table, poured me a glass of wine, helped feed the boys, shared a bit of her life story with me and then bought our meal. She did not know me. Most importantly, since the birth of Eli and Abel, my parents have fallen so completely in love with their grandsons that it's hard to fully put into words the intensity of their connection. What was at first an idea hard for my traditional parents to grasp, is now two, tiny human beings, who have my parents tightly wrapped around their little fingers. Though thousands of miles away, my parents -- and my sisters -- express their love and support constantly and in innumerable ways. There are incredible people in this world. My sons' existences have made that real to me. The lessons learned Eli and Abel have proven to be the embodiment of that saying you always hear -- the hardest, yet best thing I've ever done. My sons are my family and my future. They represent everything good, hopeful and hilarious about life. They smile and cheer when I walk into their room. They blow kisses and sneak hugs. They belly laugh when we dance. They cuddle up at night and put their heads in the crook of my neck. They also scream, bite and bang their heads on the floor when they're upset. They chuck their food when they don't like it. They act like the world is coming to an end at bath time. And they are a constant financial stress. Being a single parent is hard as hell. But from my two little men, I quickly internalized that love is a verb. Love is an action and something you work at every single day. You wake up every morning with a mandate and desire to be a better parent to your children than you were the day before. They are my miracles, which I almost didn't allow to happen because of heartbreak, self-doubt and maybe even self-loathing. Speaking of love, friends like to tell me that there is a man out there -- some wonderful man who will sweep me off my feet and be an excellent father. To that I say, please stop. Do I want to date? Of course. But I can honestly write that I have no expectations for love, and I certainly do not believe that there is a father out there for my sons. I am not waiting and hoping, because I have lost that hope. Why have I lost that hope? Truth be told, I have been vulnerable with a few men pre- and post-pregnancy. But rejection upon rejection by man after man will do it to you. Even when you are that aloof gal, who doesn't ask questions or have expectations of something real or long-term, it still ends. I guess you just lose your luster after awhile. It's my reality, and it never changes. And while we are on the topic of relationships, I would note that I will forever be perplexed by the rate of unsolicited and unexpected congratulatory communications from ex-boyfriends after years of no contact. These were the men who rejected me. These were the men who left after months or years of pretending and/or cheating. After the birth of my sons, these same men suddenly thought they had a green card to strike up conversation and ask for pictures of the twins. One suggested grabbing dinner in DC. One kindly offered to come to Colorado to help run errands, cook dinner or do whatever I needed. The attention was hard to digest. I once cried over these men. Perhaps this was a way of absolving their guilt for being dishonest or wasting my time? Perhaps they were sincerely happy for me, which would suggest that they did respect me after all? Perhaps they were feeling slighted or envious that I went it alone, without them? I'll never know. And, most importantly, I finally no longer care. Though I may never have a significant other, I do have my sons, who've taken me from unloved to loved and from unlovable to lovable. They've done this all on their own. They are my miracles, which I almost didn't allow to happen because of heartbreak, self-doubt and maybe even self-loathing. Prior to Eli and Abel, I wasted at least half of my adult life obsessing about things I had lost -- men who broke my heart, clients who weren't a good fit, friendships that had faded. My sons taught me to focus on the miracles that are right in front of my eyes every single day, beginning with my 3.7%. Every family is different: Share your story of how IVF, adoption or your unique family structure has shaped your life with #ToBeMe or text/WhatsApp us on +1-347-322-0415 Correction: This piece initially stated Lenti is in her fourth decade and has been amended to reflect that she is in her fifth decade.
(CNN) US Defense Secretary James Mattis said on Tuesday that the United States will continue "a steady drumbeat" of naval exercises to challenge China's territorial claims in the South China Sea, amid Beijing's militarization of the contested waters. Mattis' comments came after Beijing expressed "firm opposition" on Sunday after two US warships sailed within 12 nautical miles of four artificial islands claimed by China in the disputed Paracel island chain, east of Vietnam. Speaking to reporters during a flight to Hawaii, Mattis said the South China Sea was international waters and "a lot of nations" wanted to see freedom of navigation maintained in the area. "There's a very steady drumbeat of freedom of navigation operations ... You'll notice there is only one country that seems to take active steps to rebuff them or state their resentment of them," he said. JUST WATCHED US aircraft carrier visits Vietnam Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US aircraft carrier visits Vietnam 02:39 The Chinese government, which claims much of the South China Sea as its sovereign territory, has established a significant military presence in the region, installing radar facilities and airstrips on contested islands and reefs.
OTTAWA — The national broadcast regulator says online giants like Netflix and Spotify should be forced to open their wallets to pay to create local content before Canadians see losses of jobs, services and content. The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission says in a new report the federal government should consider regulating any online video or music service, no matter where they are located. The report says the proposed system would generate new revenue to save things like local news and reduce the pressures on federal coffers that would be financially unsustainable under the current model, which wasn't designed for the digital age. The CRTC says deregulation, or applying the existing regulatory system to online services, wouldn't help navigate the digital disruption shaking the broadcasting and production industries. Consumers aren't expected to see major changes on their bills, but internet service providers and companies like Netflix might find themselves facing a new levy if the government adopted all the recommendations in the report. The Liberals asked the CRTC for the report as it prepares to review federal laws overseeing television, radio and online services. Also on HuffPost:
"I remember just screaming and scraping my body, and my skin was literally falling on the floor," Blac said. "I remember my mom telling me that I fainted. She thought I was gone." When she was 9, Shalom and her younger sister were napping under a table at their mother's restaurant in Nigeria. Her mom, unaware of the sleeping girls below, placed a pot of hot oil on the table. Someone accidentally knocked the pot over, scalding the sisters. The girls were rushed to the hospital, severely burned. Eventually, an aunt got them visas so they could come to the United States and undergo several surgeries. Shalom Blac was burned in a kitchen accident when she was 9 years old. A dark place After the accident, Shalom's life took a "huge, huge turn." "Kids that I used to play with, they were either scared of me or some would call me 'monster' and 'two-face' and just laugh. I started thinking about committing suicide because of the bullying." As a little girl, Shalom loved playing with her mother's makeup. But she first learned how to properly wear it during her hospital stay in the United States. "They were teaching me how to do makeup even though I wasn't good. I used to just have concealer all over my face and go to school. It was horrible." Then, one day while watching YouTube, she came across cosmetics tutorials that changed her life. "That's how I picked up on how to do a lot of different stuff. And I started applying that to how I want my makeup to look and how I want to look with makeup. " A girl in one particular YouTube video really struck a nerve. "She was a young girl who was battling cancer, and she was completely bald. I was just like, 'Oh, my, how is she so young and so brave to come on camera in a public place?' So I just decided to challenge myself and do the thing that scares me the most." Shalom started making her own YouTube videos. Without makeup, she let the world see her as she is, scars and all. "I just decided to do a video and then post a picture of me without my wig, which was a big deal. I was so scared, but seeing people tell me how my picture or my videos have inspired them really pushed me to do more and share with people." Shalom Blac is known for her transformative makeup videos on YouTube and Instagram. YouTube sensation Shalom's transformation videos, in which she demonstrates how she uses makeup to change her looks, went viral. People were not only amazed by her beauty expertise but by her bravery and confidence. "I wanted to stop feeling sorry for myself. And I didn't want people to feel sorry for me. I wanted to be happy." Now, she's helping others by sharing her tips and performing makeovers for other burn survivors. But her main goal is to help others see what she has now found for herself: the beauty inside. "I don't feel different whether I have makeup or not. I'm very much in tune with my looks. I see beauty regardless."
UDUPI, Karnataka — Roopashree Shivananda Nairy, a 34-year-old shopkeeper, would have given her right arm to attend Narendra Modi's election rally in Udupi on Tuesday, but her husband, a policeman, expressly forbade her to battle the crowds with their eight-year-old son. An hour before Modi descended on the coastal city in Karnataka, Nairy sat in her shop and declared, "Modi is the perfect man." Grinning broadly, Nairy, a college graduate, ticked off the four things that she admired most about the prime minister: his demonetisation drive, his "style" when representing the country in foreign countries, his speeches, and his work ethic. "You know Siddaramaiah ate fish and chicken before going to the Shiva temple," Nairy said, referring to the Karnataka chief minister's visit to the Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara temple in Dharmasthala town, last year. "But when Modi went, I heard that he did not even consume water." After attending to a customer, Nairy continued, "You know when Rahul Gandhi tries to speak in Kannada, he does not care to pronounce the words properly," she said, pausing to imitate the Congress party president and then laughing. "But when Modi speaks in Kannada, he makes sure that the words coming out of his mouth are correct. That shows he cares enough to get it right." SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube Nairy said that Modi was the reason that she would vote for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the high stakes Karnataka state election on May 12. Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses a BJP rally in Udupi on May 1, 2018 Modi at the rally On Tuesday, Modi kicked off the last leg of the BJP's campaign from the coastal belt of Karnataka, a deeply polarised stronghold of the Sangh Parivar. Here, in a landscape dotted with prominent temples, mosques and churches, the battle lines are drawn along religious lines. The temple town is of special significance to the BJP because its earlier avatar, the Bhartiya Jan Sangh, won the Udupi City Municipal Council election way back in 1968, and they controlled the municipality for over 40 years. For the thousands gathered at the rally ground of MGM College, the Prime Minister's aura remains undimmed despite four years of policy-missteps, lacklustre governance and unemployment. Much like in Gujarat earlier this year, his personal popularity is the only thing keeping the BJP in this race, and much like in Gujarat, he just might drag them over the line. Modi is set to address a dozen rallies in the four-remaining days of his campaign blitz in the final stretch of BJP's campaign for Karnataka. Three major pre-poll surveys out so far predict a hung state Assembly with neither party getting the 113 seats needed to form a majority, and the Janata Dal (Secular), an influential regional party led by former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, playing kingmaker in the end. In March, Gandhi had referred to the JD(S) as the "B-team" of the BJP. On Monday, Gowda threatened to disown his son HD Kumaraswamy if he allied with the BJP. On Tuesday, as he accused Gandhi of insulting Gowda, Modi appeared to be reaching out to the former prime minister in his speech on Tuesday. Referring to the veteran leader as a "son of the soil," he said, "We have differences of opinion but one should remain civil in public life." In his speech Modi claimed that over two dozen BJP workers have been killed in Karnataka under the Congress government because of their ideology. The prime minister repeated the phrase "ease of doing murder," which he had first used in Bangalore, earlier this year. "We want to promote the ease of doing business, but they have encouraged the ease of doing murder," he said. We want to promote the ease of doing business, but they have encouraged the ease of doing murder. The past four years has seen a vicious cycle of bloodshed along the coast, with Hindu and Islamic fundamentalist targeting each other in revenge attacks. These murders have fueled polarization along religious lines in the run up to the polls. While BJP released a list of 23 political murders and accused the Congress of minority appeasement, the state government claimed that only nine had anything to do with religion. The other deaths were caused by personal enmity, accident or suicide. In fact, it turned out that one man on the list, Ashok Poojary, was actually alive. HuffPost India met a cross-section of people from diehard fans like Nairy to more critical residents of Udupi. A 65-year-old man working in a printing shop said that he was still waiting for money to reach his Jan Dhan account. A 45-year-old vegetable seller said, "Politicians come and go but life for the common man remains the same." A 63-year-old businessman, who was furious about the fallout of demonetization and the Goods and Services Tax on his operations, said, "Tomorrow, if we go to the toilet, we may have to pay GST." For Shubha Anchan, however, Modi hasn't put one foot wrong since coming to office in 2014. The 42-year-old government employee, said, "He should definitely get another five years in office." Betwa Sharma/HuffPost India Children play with a Narendra Modi mask near a BJP rally in Udupi on May 1, 2018 Walk To A Rally Anchan, who had decided to brave the heat and the crowd just to see Modi, smiled at a group of children who were chanting, "Modi, Modi." While making her way to attend her first political rally, Anchan refuted talk of a rise in atrocities against religious minorities since the BJP came to power in 2014. "No, not at all. Things have been peaceful. There is a sense of safety and security. Has there been a single terrorist attack in the past four years?" she asked. Anchan, who is from Udupi and works in Mumbai, described how things at her workplace had changed. "Things used to be completely lax when the Congress was in power. People would take long breaks and not bother about work," she said. "Now, people don't even have a minute to stand and waste." Things have been peaceful. There is a sense of safety and security. When she finally reached the rally ground, Anchan stood still and exclaimed at the bottleneck at the entrance. "Oh my god," she said. While Anchan paused for a few minutes, two other women, dressed in saris and donning jewelry, took a deep breath and dove into the crowd. With Modi's voice already booming in the background, the two housewives, Kalpana Bhaskar, 47, and Saraswati Putra, 42, who had come from out of town just to see Modi, didn't have much time to talk. Before they disappeared into the sea of humanity, Bhaskar said, "What I like is that he is decisive. Even those who are against his demonetization and GST will soon realize that it is good for the country." "I think he loves the country, 100 percent," said Putra. Betwa Sharma/HuffPost India Bhavna Keremata poses with her friends and family next to a cutout of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Udupi on May 1, 2018. End of a rally For 18-year-old Bhavna Keremata, the rally ended on a high after she managed to grab a cardboard cutout of Modi, and convinced her friends and family to pose for photographs. Keremata, a journalism student, who will vote for the first time in the state polls, said that she is voting BJP because of Modi. "I think he is one of the greatest orators," she said, during the photo session. Her aunt, Pratibha Acharya, 54, chimed in, "It isn't just that he speaks well but also that he connects with the common man." I think he is one of the greatest orators. A diehard fan like Nairy, Keremata said that she was most impressed by Modi's announcement that all inhabited villages in India have now been electrified and his government's decision to introduce the death penalty for rapists of girls below the age of 12. "As a young woman, this is very important to me," she said. On whether she would change her mind about voting for the BJP if Modi was not involved, Nairy said, "Well, then I would see individual candidates on their merits, but if it was Rahul Gandhi, I would vote for the BJP." Also on HuffPost India:
John Sims is a multimedia artist, writer and producer. He is the creator of Recoloration Proclamation, a 16-year multimedia project featuring a series of Confederate flag installations. See more of his work at johnsimsprojects.com and follow him on Twitter: @Johnsimsproject . David A. Love is a writer and commentator. He contributes to a number of publications, including Atlanta Black Star, theGrio.com, WHYY and Al Jazeera. Follow him on Twitter: @DavidALove. The opinions expressed in this commentary are theirs. (CNN) The black community was up in arms over Kanye West's remarks about slavery -- for 400 years -- being a choice. Whether the artist's comments were coming from a space of enlightenment or insanity, his words "choice" and "slavery" in the same sentence were mixing like oil and water for black folk. But after we settle down, take a breath, we may ask ourselves, very gently: Did African slaves really have a choice? Or more critical as we pass through the Memorial Day holiday: Is liberation a choice? These are two questions we two writers want to think about. But before we move along here, let us remind ourselves that American slavery or any kind of slavery for that matter, as a collective history and experience, is very difficult to think, talk and feel about. And since the whole discussion is a trigger subject, we recommend caution, reflection and an open mind. Was slavery a choice? David Love: Slavery was a choice that white supremacy made against black lives and freedom. Consider the circumstances that allowed slavery to take place. African people were kidnaped at gunpoint, held in dungeons off the coast of West Africa before they were packed and stacked in floating dungeons known as slave ships. They were doomed to make the journey across the Atlantic, known as the dreaded Middle Passage, where millions died due to the horrific conditions on those ships. Those who survived were traumatized, separated from their families and communities, their institutions, traditions and belief systems. They did not speak the language of their captors, who foisted a religion upon them -- complete with a white god -- and preached that black people were inferior and doomed to slavery in perpetuity. Southern states enacted the "Slave Codes," to monitor and codify oppression into law, deputizing white America as prison guards of the plantations. These laws reflected white racial paranoia and fear of servile insurrection and assumed black people would break their chains if given the chance. Offenses such as insurrection -- including publishing literature encouraging slaves to rebel -- and assaulting a white person with the intent to kill were punishable by death, serving as a deterrent for black people. Slaves were property with no rights and no chance of justice. They were subject to curfews, could not assemble without a white person present and were unable to testify or defend themselves in court. John Sims: When you put "choice" in the context of the singular artist's mind, where creativity and freedom are untradable intangibles, we can see how someone like Kanye or a studied revolutionary or defiant poet can choose freedom in death over the servitude of bondage. And of course, they might be confused why everyone else is not following suit. But in nature, the goal is to survive. So, if slavery is the alternative to the fear of death and mass extinction, then perhaps the "choice" of slavery was also the hope and anticipation of a future freedom -- as smart-surviving as a palm tree bending in the wind of a Category 5 hurricane. With that in mind, we descendants of African slaves are indebted to the slaves who chose slavery over death in hope of a better day. Their pain and endurance is why we -- as a people -- are even still here. We are also indebted to those who chose death and the many, many nameless folks who ran away, fought back and died in divine acts of resistance. Their sacrifices are gifts of light in a time of great darkness, because their resistance was a reminder on the deepest level that slavery was wrong. And as we continue this journey out of darkness, we might ask ourselves another question: Is liberation a choice? Love: Liberation is a choice. Some people chose to navigate the system of slavery and stay alive. Some, like the Liberation is a choice. Some people chose to navigate the system of slavery and stay alive. Some, like the Quilombos in Brazil and Gaspar Yanga in Mexico ran away, while others such as Joseph Cinqué of the Amistad killed their captors. Others, such as 75 Nigerians at Igbo Landing off the Georgia coast took over their slave ship, drowning their kidnappers and ultimately themselves, choosing death over enslavement. In that regard, Kanye spoke out of ignorance, as someone who is proud that he does not read books , and apparently does not know that black people fought and killed to be free. History is replete with examples of just that. From Nat Turner and Denmark Vesey to the Haitian Revolution and the US Civil War, people of African descent have demonstrated their willingness to die in lieu of being kept alive to be violently oppressed. Liberation was also a choice for my great-great-great grandparents, Clarissa and Daniel Whaley, who fled from a plantation in Pineville, South Carolina, to Charleston during the Civil War. According to my family's oral history, they escaped with a group of self-liberated black people across the river and through the swamps. My great-great grandfather, Henry, was an infant wrapped in his mother Clarissa's apron, tied to her back. Henry cried out as the slave catchers -- the police, the ICE of their day -- approached. Clarissa had to decide whether to kill her baby to avoid attracting the patrols. Instead, she decided to breastfeed Henry, saving his and everyone's life. Clarissa chose liberation on her own terms, and I'm thankful for it. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Sims: In honor of those who have sacrificed their physical and cultural freedom before us, it is important to continue the journey of liberation and creative resistance. However black liberation is a gigantic project in progress. If we want more of it, we must choose to continue the fight against police brutality, mass incarceration, and support black businesses, education, history, and culture -- not after we have been rejected and pounced upon, but before. To do this, black people must critique the gravity of compliance and consumerism driven by capitalism, mind-altering marketing, corporate news, megachurches and generic mass education -- all of the mechanisms that shape independent thought. I have tried to push against the aftermath of colonial slavery by using the art process as a tool for transformation and healing. In 2015, for the 150th anniversary of the end of the Civil War, I organized Confederate flag funerals all across the South. But after the horrific Charleston church shootings , I started a national call to burn and bury the Confederate flag every Memorial Day, not only to confront the trauma of Confederate and American slavery iconography but also as a way to honor the veterans of social justice who chose to speak up and push for change, equal rights and self liberation. Whatever you may think of Kanye's comments, they got us talking about slavery, choices, freedom and resistance and how they relate. Now that the media dust has settled and the news have cycled elsewhere, we still must reckon with the continued rocky road to freedom and the intersecting matrices of collective and individual choices to move forward.
It’s a proven fact that looking at food will make you hungry, and that’s why we’re craving chicken and rice for dinner this week. When you see an image of delicious-looking food, your stomach releases a hormone called ghrelin into your bloodstream, stimulating your appetite. You haven’t been imagining it, and it’s not just psychological: It’s a very real physical phenomenon. If you want to test this for yourself, watch this video about Israeli chicken pilaf from Frankie Celenza, whose virtues we’ve praised before here at HuffPost:
Sister Helen Prejean, a Sister of St. Joseph, ministers to prisoners on death row. She is the author of " Dead Man Walking ." The views expressed are her own. (CNN) I'm praying for Justice Antonin Scalia, that his passage into eternity was peaceful. I respect his sincerity, even though on the subject of the death penalty, he was my nemesis. As I was writing "The Death of Innocents," I happened to run into him in an airport, and I said teasingly that I was "taking him on" in my book. And he, personable as he was, jabbed his finger in the air and said, "And I'll be right back at ya!" In "Innocents," I wrote about two men I believe were innocent: Joseph O'Dell and Dobie Gillis Williams , whose executions Scalia summarily authorized without an apparent qualm, acknowledging that his role on the Supreme Court made him part of the "machinery of death." In grasping the "meaning" of state killings, I had one advantage over Scalia. I was there, close up to the anguish and terror of the condemned and their grieving mothers. Scalia, in the cerebral confines of the Court, never touched a tear-stained cheek, never stood present at the grave as families buried their loved ones killed by the state. One thing the justice and I did have in common, however, was this: he stumped around the country to persuade citizens of the rightness of his "originalist" approach to the Constitution; I stumped around the country (still do) to persuade citizens to abolish the death penalty, laying out my arguments through stories of personal experience, beliefs of my Catholic faith and logical, fact-infused arguments, including Constitutional analysis. After all, as citizens, are we not the ultimate proprietors of the Constitution and its meaning for our lives? Are not its protections of life and liberty far too precious to blindly be turned over to legal "experts," every bit as prone to prejudice and blind spots as the rest of us? Photos: Death row's nun Sister Helen Prejean has been on a mission to end the death penalty for three decades. The Roman Catholic nun rose to fame after the success of her book and the subsequent 1995 film adaptation, "Dead Man Walking." Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun A young Prejean, right, and her sister Mary Ann with their father. She grew up, she says, in a privileged home in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, oblivious to the racism and poverty around her. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun In her youth, Prejean jokes, a Catholic woman had two choices: get married or become a nun. She picked the latter and joined the Congregation of St. Joseph in 1957. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean on the set with Susan Sarandon and Tim Robbins during the filming of "Dead Man Walking." Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean visits Dobie Gillis Williams on death row at the Louisiana State Penitentiary in 1996. Williams, who had an IQ of 65 and was convicted by an all-white jury, was executed in 1999. Prejean says he was innocent. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean's sister Mary Ann and brother Louie accompanied her to Notre Dame University when she won the 1996 Laetare Medal, awarded for outstanding service to the Catholic church and society. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean speaks to the media after Lori Urs, right, married Joseph O'Dell just hours before his execution in Virginia in 1997. Prejean believes O'Dell was innocent, too. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean visited Karla Faye Tucker, who was executed in 1998 for murders. Tucker said she got sexual gratification from the killings but later became a Christian. Prejean thought the clemency board ought to have considered the change in Tucker. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean wrote her second book, "The Death of Innocents: An Eyewitness Account of Wrongful Executions" in Montana. In it, she challenges Justice Antonin Scalia's support for the death penalty and questions his Catholic faith. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean, right, talks with James Allridge's attorney Jim Marcus after the execution of his client in 2004. Allridge had asked for clemency based on apparent rehabilitation and a quest for redemption. Prejean believes Texas should have looked at those factors because its capital statute emphasizes, as it did in Allridge's death sentence, the "future dangerousness" of the convicted. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean was by Gov. Jon Corzine's side in 2007 as he signed a bill to repeal the death penalty in New Jersey, the first state to abolish executions through legislation since it was reinstated in 1976. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean speaks to an audience at Clarke University in Dubuque, Iowa, in 2012. Even at 75, she's on the road many days a year speaking to audiences about why she believes the death penalty is wrong. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean leaves the courthouse in Boston on May 11, 2015, after testifying in the death penalty trial of Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. She said she believed Tsarnaev was "genuinely sorry" for the pain and suffering he inflicted on his victims. Three people were killed and 260 were injured in the 2013 bombings. Hide Caption 13 of 13 I have profoundly disagreed with Scalia on two fronts: jurisprudence and religious faith. As for his jurisprudence, I do not think that the only correct way to interpret the Constitution is to interpret its words (text) as, supposedly, our 18th century framers understood them. Given what we now know about the fluid nature of text and context in linguistics, that's an impossible task. Even more impossible is to confine ourselves to the practice of punishment as they practiced it, which, to most modern eyes, was harsh in the extreme. In 1999, I accompanied Dobie Gillis Williams into the killing chamber of Louisiana three times before my native state finally killed him. An African American with a very low IQ, Dobie was sentenced by an all-white jury to die for supposedly killing a white woman. I say supposedly because even though the appeals courts upheld Dobie's guilt, I am convinced of his innocence. I tell Dobie's story in"The Death of Innocents," taking readers through our broken system of justice that masks truth and gets poor men like Dobie executed. Three years after Dobie's death came a Supreme Court decision that, had it come earlier, might well have saved his life, a decision in which Scalia fiercely dissented . In Atkins v Virginia (2002), the court ruled 6-3 that executing people with mental disabilities -- that is with an IQ of 70 and below -- violates the Eighth Amendment's ban on "cruel and unusual punishments." JUST WATCHED Lethal injection at the Supreme Court in two minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lethal injection at the Supreme Court in two minutes 02:04 In his dissent , Scalia used as his moral criterion an 18th century dictionary's definition of "idiot" as "such a person who cannot account or number twenty pence, nor can tell who was his father or mother, nor how old he is." According to Scalia's perception of the Constitution as not living but dead, that archaic definition should have guided the court's decision and not any modern understanding of diminished mental capacity. Dobie, who had an IQ of 65 but knew exactly who his mama was, would have failed Scalia's "idiot" test. My second argument with Scalia was the way he interpreted Catholic teaching about the death penalty. Church opposition to government executions has developed considerably in recent years, which to Scalia was anathema. He interpreted his Catholic faith as he interpreted the Constitution, staking his position in unchangeable tradition, upheld by Saints Augustine in the 5th century and Thomas Aquinas in the 12th. These stalwart teachers, he maintained -- unlike Catholic American bishops so easily swayed by "modern trends," as he saw it -- upheld the righteousness of government-imposed executions as God's will, justified in the same way as the killing of a rabid dog or the amputation of a gangrenous limb. Photos: Women of death row Kelly Renee Gissendaner was executed by lethal injection on Tuesday, September 29. She was the only woman on Georgia's death row. She was convicted in a February 1997 murder plot that targeted her husband in suburban Atlanta. Women make up fewer than 2% of the inmates sentenced to die on death row in the United States, according to the Death Penalty Information Center. Hide Caption 1 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Patricia Blackmon was 29 when she killed her 2-year-old adopted daughter in Dothan, Alabama, in May 1999. Blackmon was sentenced on June 7, 2002. Hide Caption 2 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Tierra Capri Gobble was 21 when she murdered her 4-month-old son in Dothan, Alabama, on December 15, 2004. She was sentenced on October 26, 2005. Hide Caption 3 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Shonda Johnson was 28 when she murdered her husband in Jasper, Alabama, on November 30, 1997. She was sentenced on October 22, 1999. Hide Caption 4 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Christie Michelle Scott was 30 when she murdered her 6-year-old son and committed arson in Russellville, Alabama, on September 16, 2008. The jury recommended a life sentence, but the judge sentenced her to death in August 2009. Hide Caption 5 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Wendi Andriano was 30 when she murdered her husband in Mesa, Arizona, on October 8, 2000. She was sentenced on December 22, 2004. Hide Caption 6 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Shawna Forde was 41 when she murdered a 29-year-old man and a 9-year-old girl in Arivaca, Arizona, on May 30, 2009. She was sentenced on February 23, 2011. Hide Caption 7 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Maria del Rosio Alfaro was 18 when she committed burglary, robbery, and murdered a 9-year-old girl in Anaheim, California, on June 15, 1990. She was sentenced on July 14, 1992. Hide Caption 8 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Dora Luz Buenrostro was 34 when she murdered her two daughters, ages 4 and 9, and her 8-year-old son in San Jacinto, California, on October 25 and October 27, 1994. She was sentenced on October 2, 1998. Hide Caption 9 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Socorro Caro was 42 when she murdered her three sons, ages 5, 8, and 11, in Santa Rosa Valley, California, on November 22, 1999. She was sentenced on April 5, 2002. Hide Caption 10 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Celeste Simone Carrington was 30 when she murdered a 34-year-old man during a burglary on January 26, 1992, in San Carlos, California, and a 36-year-old woman during a burglary in Palo Alto, California, on March 11, 1992. She was sentenced to death on November 23, 1994. Hide Caption 11 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Cynthia Lynn Coffman was 24 when she murdered a 20-year-old woman in San Bernardino County, California, on November 7, 1986. She was sentenced to death on August 31, 1989. Hide Caption 12 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Kerry Lyn Dalton was 28 when she murdered a 23-year-old woman in Live Oak Springs, California, on June 26, 1988. She was sentenced to death on May 23, 1995. Hide Caption 13 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Susan Eubanks was 33 when she murdered her four sons, ages 4, 6, 7, and 14, in San Marcos, California, on October 27, 1996. She was sentenced to death on October 13, 1999. Hide Caption 14 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Veronica Gonzalez was 26 when she murdered her 4-year-old niece in San Diego on July 21, 1995. She was sentenced to death on July 20, 1998. Hide Caption 15 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Valerie Dee Martin was 35 when she murdered her boyfriend in Lancaster, California, on March 28, 2003. She was sentenced to death on March 26, 2010. Hide Caption 16 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Maureen McDermott was 37 when she murdered a 27-year-old man in Van Nuys, California, on April 28, 1985. She was sentenced to death on June 8, 1990. Hide Caption 17 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Michelle Lyn Michaud was 38 when she kidnapped, sexually assaulted and murdered a 22-year-old woman in Pleasanton, California, on December 2, 1997. She was sentenced on September 25, 2002. Hide Caption 18 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Tanya Jaime Nelson was 46 when she murdered two women, ages 23 and 52, in Westminster, California, on April 21, 2005. She was sentenced to death on March 26, 2010. Hide Caption 19 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Sandi Dawn Nieves was 34 when she murdered her four daughters, ages 5, 7, 11, and 12, in Saugus, California, on June 30, 1998. She was sentenced on October 6, 2000. Hide Caption 20 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Angelina Rodriguez was 32 when she murdered her husband in Montebello, California, on September 9, 2000. She was sentenced on January 12, 2004. Hide Caption 21 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Brooke Marie Rottiers was 26 when she murdered two men, ages 22 and 28, in Corona, California, on August 28, 2006. She was sentenced on October 22, 2010. Hide Caption 22 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Mary Ellen Samuels was 40 when she hired someone to kill her husband in Northridge, California, and then murdered her husband's killer in Ventura County, California on June 27, 1989. She was sentenced on September 16, 1994. Hide Caption 23 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Cathy Lynn Sarinana was 30 when she murdered her 13-year-old nephew in Riverside, California, on December 25, 2005. She was sentenced on June 26, 2009. Hide Caption 24 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Janeen Marie Snyder was 21 when she murdered a 16-year-old girl in Rubidoux, California, on April 17, 2001. She was sentenced on September 7, 2006. Hide Caption 25 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Catherine Thompson was 42 when she hired someone to kill her husband in Westwood, California, on June 14, 1990. She was sentenced on June 10, 1993. Hide Caption 26 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Manling Tsang Williams was 28 when she murdered her husband and two sons, ages 3 and 7, in Rowland Heights, California, on August 7, 2007. She was sentenced on January 18, 2012. Hide Caption 27 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Margaret Allen was 39 when she murdered a 39-year-old woman in Titusville, Florida, on February 8, 2005. She was sentenced on May 19, 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Tina Lasonya Brown was 39 when she murdered a 19-year-old woman in West Pensacola, Florida, on March 24, 2010. She was sentenced on September 28, 2012. Hide Caption 29 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Ana Marie Cardona was 39 when she murdered her 3-year-old son in Miami on November 2, 1990. She was sentenced in 1992, the sentence was reversed 10 years later. She was resentenced on June 10, 2011. Hide Caption 30 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Emilia Lily Carr was 24 when she murdered a 26-year-old woman in Boardman, Florida, on February 14, 2009. She was sentenced on February 22, 2011. Hide Caption 31 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Tiffany Ann Cole was 23 when she murdered a 61-year-old man and a 61-year-old woman in Jacksonville, Florida, on July 8, 2005. She was sentenced on March 6, 2008. Hide Caption 32 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Kelly Renee Gissendaner was 28 when she murdered her husband in Gwinnett County, Georgia, on February 7, 1997. She was sentenced on November 20, 1998. Hide Caption 33 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Robin Lee Row was 35 when she murdered her husband and her two children in Boise, Idaho, on February 10, 1992. She was sentenced on December 16, 1993. Hide Caption 34 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Paula Cooper, once a teen on Indiana's death row, was released from prison on Monday, June 17. She spent 27 years behind bars for stabbing a 78-year-old Bible teacher Ruth Pelke in the stomach and chest 33 times. Hide Caption 35 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Debra Denise Brown was 21 when she murdered a 7-year-old girl in Gary, Indiana, on June 18,1984. She was sentenced on June 23, 1986. She is serving a life sentence in Ohio but is sentenced to death in Indiana. Hide Caption 36 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Virginia Susan Caudill was 37 when she robbed and murdered a 73-year-old woman in Lexington, Kentucky, on March 15, 1998. She was sentenced on March 24, 2000. Hide Caption 37 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Antoinette Frank was 22 when she robbed and murdered a 25-year-old police officer, a 17-year-old man and a 24-year-old woman in New Orleans on March 4, 1994. She was sentenced on September 13, 1995. Hide Caption 38 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Brandy Holmes was 23 when she robbed and murdered a 70-year-old man in Blanchard, Louisiana, on January 1, 2003. She was sentenced on February 21, 2006. Hide Caption 39 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Michelle Byrom was 42 when she hired a killer to murder her husband in Tishomingo County, Mississippi, on June 4, 1999. She was sentenced on November 18, 2000. Hide Caption 40 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Lisa Jo Chamberlin (aka Chamberlain) was 31 when she murdered a 34-year-old man and a 37-year-old woman in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, in March 2004. She was sentenced on August 4, 2006. Hide Caption 41 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Lisa Montgomery was 36 when she murdered a 23-year-old woman in Skidmore, Missouri, on July 16, 2004. She was sentenced on April 4, 2008. She is being held in federal prison. Hide Caption 42 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Patricia JoAnn Jennings was 47 when she murdered her husband in Wilson County, North Carolina, on September 19, 1989. She was sentenced on November 5,1990. Hide Caption 43 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Blanche Kiser Moore was 56 when she murdered her boyfriend in Alamance County, North Carolina, on October 7, 1986. She was sentenced on January 18, 1991. Hide Caption 44 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Carlette Elizabeth Parker was 34 when she murdered an 86-year-old woman in North Raleigh, North Carolina, on May 12, 1998. She was sentenced on April 1, 1999. Hide Caption 45 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Christina S. Walters was 20 when she murdered a 19-year-old woman and a 25-year-old woman in Fayetteville, North Carolina, on August 17, 1998. She was sentenced on July 6, 2000. Hide Caption 46 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Donna Marie Roberts was 58 when she murdered her husband near Warren, Ohio, on December 11, 2001. She was originally sentenced on June 21, 2003. That sentence was reversed on August 2, 2006, and she was resentenced on October 29, 2007. Hide Caption 47 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Brenda E. Andrew was 37 when she murdered her husband in Oklahoma City on November 20, 2001. She was sentenced on September 22, 2004. Hide Caption 48 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Angela Darlene McAnulty was 41 when she murdered her 15-year-old daughter in Eugene, Oregon, on December 9, 2009. She was sentenced on February 24, 2011. Hide Caption 49 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Michelle Sue Tharp was 29 when she murdered her 7-year-old daughter in Burgettstown, Pennsylvania, on April 18, 1998. She was sentenced on November 14, 2004. Hide Caption 50 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Shonda Dee Walter was 23 when she murdered an 83-year-old man in Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, on March 25, 2003. She was sentenced on April 19, 2005. Hide Caption 51 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Christa Gail Pike was 18 when she murdered a 19-year-old woman in Knoxville, Tennessee, on January 12,1995. She was sentenced on March 29,1996. Hide Caption 52 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Kimberly Cargill was 42 when she murdered a 39-year-old woman in Whitehouse, Texas, on June 18, 2010. She was sentenced on May 31, 2012. Hide Caption 53 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Linda Anita Carty was 42 when she kidnapped and murdered a 20-year-old woman and the victim's infant son in Houston on May 16, 2001. She was sentenced on February 21, 2002. Hide Caption 54 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Cathy Lynn Henderson was 37 when she murdered a 3-month-old boy she was babysitting near Austin, Texas, on January 21, 1994. She was sentenced on May 25, 1995. Hide Caption 55 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Brittany Marlowe Holberg was 23 when she murdered an 80-year-old man in Amarillo, Texas, on November 13, 1996. She was sentenced on March 27, 1998. Hide Caption 56 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Melissa Elizabeth Lucio was 38 when she murdered her 2-year-old daughter in Harlington, Texas, on February 16, 2007. She was sentenced in August 2008. Hide Caption 57 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Darla Lynn Routier was 26 when she murdered her 5-year-old son in Rowlett, Texas, on June 6, 1996. She was sentenced on February 4, 1997. Hide Caption 58 of 59 Photos: Women of death row Erica Yvonne Sheppard was 19 when she murdered a 43-year-old woman in Houston on June 30, 1993. She was sentenced on March 3, 1995. Hide Caption 59 of 59 Thus, Scalia could not brook American bishops' increasing opposition to the death penalty, nor the opposition of Popes John Paul II and Francis -- especially Pope Francis, who must have disturbed the justice considerably in his bold appeal before Congress for global abolition of the death penalty. -- "It seems to me that the more Christian a country is, the less likely it is to regard the death penalty as immoral. Abolition has taken its firmest hold in post-Christian Europe and has least support in the church-going United States." -- He interpreted St. Paul's words, "The powers that be are ordained of God," to mean: "Government derives its moral authority from God. It is the minister of God with powers to revenge, to execute wrath, including wrath by the sword, which is unmistakably a reference to the death penalty. ...These passages from Romans represent the consensus of Western thought until quite recent times ... regarding the powers of the state. That consensus has been upset by the emergence of democracy." Democracy, indeed. Do our elected leaders derive the authority to govern from the people or by direct divine infusion? That's theocracy, not democracy. Where was Jesus in the Justice's stance of faith? Where is his moral challenge to rise above seeking "an eye for an eye," to pray for and forgive our enemies? In Chicago, Scalia justified his interpretation of Scripture by making a distinction: individual Christians must follow Jesus' call to forgive, but not the state. In this distorted reading, state governments as God's ministers have God's blessing to inflict wrath on evildoers and those they deem "enemy." It seems Scalia was as adept at drawing bright lines in the practice of his faith as he was in his jurisprudence. Now the bright line of death has been drawn across his life. I pray that he finds eternal rest. I also hope and pray that the ninth new justice will be a person, who not only has an excellent legal mind, but also a compassionate and fair-minded spirit, in close touch with the struggles and aspirations of ordinary people -- especially the most vulnerable among us for whom "equal justice under law" is a cruel chimera if not an outright lie.
David Axelrod is CNN's senior political commentator and host of the podcast " The Axe Files. " He was senior adviser to President Barack Obama and chief strategist for the 2008 and 2012 Obama campaigns. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) The walls, just days earlier bedecked with portraits of President Obama at work, were covered with empty frames, awaiting a new leading man. The hallways that had been buzzing with energy were strangely still, as all but the most senior staff had already turned in their badges and moved on. In the mostly emptied West Wing, those who remained packed up a few last items between hugs, handshakes, laughs and memories. The White House on Thursday was winding down, the day before the wheel of democracy turns out one cast and ushers in another. As the hours ticked down on the Obama era, I returned to see old colleagues and friends, some of whom had walked into that citadel of American government with me eight years ago. On that day, the vibe was entirely different. The place filled with the frenetic energy of something new and momentous. Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Donald Trump is sworn in as the 45th president of the United States by Chief Justice John Roberts. Trump is joined by his wife, Melania, and his five children: from right, Tiffany, Eric, Ivanka, Donald Jr. and Barron. See a panoramic Gigapixel from his inauguration Hide Caption 1 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Barack Obama takes the oath of office in 2009. His wife, Michelle, is holding the Bible, and they are joined by their daughters, Malia and Sasha. An estimated 1.5 million people attended the inauguration as Obama became the nation's first African-American president. Hide Caption 2 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 George W. Bush takes the oath of office from Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist in 2001. Standing with Bush, from left, are daughter Jenna, wife Laura and daughter Barbara. Bush, the eldest son of former President George H.W. Bush, served two terms. Hide Caption 3 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Bill Clinton addresses the crowd at the US Capitol after being inaugurated in 1993. He was re-elected in 1996. Hide Caption 4 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 President George H.W. Bush, left, shakes the hand of his son George W. Bush after being sworn in to office in 1989. The elder Bush had been vice president under President Ronald Reagan, whose two terms were up. Hide Caption 5 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 President Ronald Reagan delivers his inaugural address at the US Capitol in 1981. As the ceremony was being held, Iran was releasing 52 American hostages. Hide Caption 6 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Jimmy Carter is joined by his wife, Rosalynn, as he takes the oath of office in 1977. He was the first president to walk from the Capitol to the White House in the post-inauguration parade. Hide Caption 7 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Gerald Ford takes the oath in 1974 next to his wife, Betty. He became president in August of that year after Richard Nixon resigned because of the Watergate scandal. Hide Caption 8 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Richard Nixon delivers his inaugural address in 1969. He was re-elected in 1972 but resigned two years after that. Hide Caption 9 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Lyndon B. Johnson takes the oath of office aboard Air Force One after the assassination of John F. Kennedy in November 1963. Standing on the right is Kennedy's widow, Jackie. Hide Caption 10 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 John F. Kennedy is sworn in by Chief Justice Earl Warren in 1961. Kennedy, at 43, was the youngest ever to be elected president. This was the first inauguration ceremony to be televised in color. Hide Caption 11 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 A crowd watches the inauguration ceremony of Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1953. Eisenhower, who served two terms, recited his own prayer after taking the oath of office. Hide Caption 12 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Harry S. Truman holds the Bible as he takes the oath of office in 1945. Standing beside him are his wife, Bess, and his daughter, Margaret. Truman was the vice president under Franklin D. Roosevelt, who died in office. Truman won re-election in 1948. Hide Caption 13 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Franklin D. Roosevelt is sworn in for his first term in 1933. He won four presidential elections and served in office until his death in 1945. The 22nd Amendment, ratified in 1951, ensured that he would be the last US president to serve more than two terms. Hide Caption 14 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 People attend the inauguration of Herbert Hoover in 1929. Later that year, a stock market crash led to the Great Depression. Hide Caption 15 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Calvin Coolidge takes the oath of office in Plymouth, Vermont, in August 1923. President Warren G. Harding had just died, and Coolidge was vice president. Coolidge's father, John, administered the oath. He was a notary public. Hide Caption 16 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 President Warren G. Harding waves to the crowd from the US Capitol's east portico in 1921. It was the first inauguration where an automobile was used to transport the president-elect to the Capitol. Hide Caption 17 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Woodrow Wilson gives his inaugural speech in 1913. Wilson broke with tradition and did not host any inaugural balls. Hide Caption 18 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 William Howard Taft stands on the inaugural platform after taking the oath of office in 1909. His inauguration was held indoors because of a blizzard the day before. Hide Caption 19 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Theodore Roosevelt takes the oath of office in 1901. He was vice president to William McKinley, who died in office. Roosevelt, a distant cousin of future President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was the youngest president in history at 42 years of age. He was re-elected in 1904. Hide Caption 20 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 William McKinley delivers his inaugural address in 1897. His inauguration was the first to be recorded on a movie camera. He died in office shortly after being re-elected in 1900. Hide Caption 21 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 This engraved illustration of Benjamin Harrison's inauguration appeared on the cover of Harper's Weekly in 1889. It was raining during the ceremony. Hide Caption 22 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Grover Cleveland was the only president to serve two non-consecutive terms. He was inaugurated in 1885 (seen here) and 1893. Hide Caption 23 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Chester A. Arthur became the nation's 21st president after the death of James A. Garfield. There have been eight times in US history when a vice president has assumed the presidency because the president died in office. Hide Caption 24 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 President James A. Garfield views the inauguration ceremonies in 1881. He was the first to watch the parade from a stand built in front of White House. Hide Caption 25 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Chief Justice Morrison R. Waite administers the oath of office to Rutherford B. Hayes. The usual inauguration day back then, March 4, fell on a Sunday in 1877. So the public ceremony was held on a Monday. Hide Caption 26 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Ulysses S. Grant takes the oath of office in front of a large crowd in 1869. Grant, the former Army general who helped the Union win the Civil War, served two terms. Hide Caption 27 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 After the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln, Vice President Andrew Johnson assumed the presidency in a Washington hotel in 1865. Hide Caption 28 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Abraham Lincoln gives his inaugural address in 1861. The nation was on the brink of the Civil War, so Lincoln was heavily protected during his procession to the Capitol. Hide Caption 29 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 The 1857 inauguration of James Buchanan was the first inauguration ceremony known to be photographed. Hide Caption 30 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Military units precede Franklin Pierce's carriage down Pennsylvania Avenue during his inauguration day parade in 1853. Pierce broke the tradition of kissing the Bible during the swearing-in ceremony. He placed his left hand on it instead. Hide Caption 31 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Millard Fillmore, seen here, became president after Zachary Taylor's death in 1850. Hide Caption 32 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Zachary Taylor delivers his inaugural speech on the steps of the Capitol in 1849. Hide Caption 33 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 People gather for the inauguration of James K. Polk in 1845. It was the first inauguration ceremony to be reported by telegraph and shown in a newspaper illustration. Hide Caption 34 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 John Tyler, seen here, took the oath of office after the 1841 death of William Henry Harrison. Harrison died after just 32 days in office. Hide Caption 35 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 This lithograph shows the inauguration of William Henry Harrison in 1841. Harrison delivered the longest inaugural address in history (about 8,500 words). He caught a cold and died from pneumonia a month later. Hide Caption 36 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Martin Van Buren was inaugurated in 1837. For the first time in history, the president-elect and the outgoing president rode to the inauguration together. Hide Caption 37 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Andrew Jackson was inaugurated at the US Capitol in 1829. He was re-elected in 1833. Hide Caption 38 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 John Quincy Adams, son of former President John Adams, was inaugurated in 1825. He is one of only three presidents who did not use a Bible at his inauguration. He opted for a volume of law. Theodore Roosevelt used no Bible or book at his first inauguration in 1901. Lyndon B. Johnson used John F. Kennedy's Roman Catholic Missal during his hastily arranged swearing-in aboard Air Force One. Hide Caption 39 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 James Monroe's inauguration in 1817 was the first time that the swearing-in ceremony was held outside. The Capitol building was still under repair from its damage in the War of 1812. Hide Caption 40 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 James Madison, the fourth US president, was inaugurated in 1809 and was the first to hold an inaugural ball to celebrate. Hide Caption 41 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 Thomas Jefferson arrives on horseback for his inauguration in 1801. It was the first one held at the US Capitol. Hide Caption 42 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 John Adams, the second US president, took the oath of office at the House Chamber Congress Hall in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 43 of 44 Photos: Presidential inaugurations since 1789 George Washington delivers his inaugural address at New York's Federal Hall in April 1789. It was 13 years after the Declaration of Independence and more than a year and a half after the Constitution was ratified. Hide Caption 44 of 44 Even as we located our offices and familiarized ourselves with our rarified surroundings, we plunged into the work of saving the country from an epic economic crisis -- the worst since the Great Depression. There were two wars raging and 180,000 troops in harm's way and Osama bin Laden was alive and still plotting against America. What we would quickly learn is that as we labored through these challenges, others would arrive unexpectedly. Pirates, pandemics and massive oil leaks on the sea floor do not fit neatly into your planning calendar. That's the nature of the presidency. Events have a way of hijacking your days and the story. I smiled the other day when the president, at his final news conference, shared the advice he had given his children in times of stress. "The only thing that's the end of the world...is the end of the world," he said. His wisdom and equanimity had helped the country and buoyed his staff through times that felt as if they could be the end of the world. And those qualities were on display again these past two months when a stunning election result left so many unsettled. Those who lingered at the White House on Thursday wondered which pieces of Obama's legacy would survive the stark change of leadership that Friday will bring. But there are so many things that simply cannot be erased. History will record that at a time of maximum crisis, this president made a series of courageous and difficult decisions to save our economy and the American auto industry. I was there. I saw it. He never flinched. Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – In 2010, first lady Michelle Obama started Let's Move!, an initiative to address childhood obesity and help all our kids grow up healthy. Here she participates in musical activities with students in an event at Orr Elementary School in Washington in 2013. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – The theme for the fifth year anniversary of Let's Move! is: Celebrate, challenge, champion. The first lady joins in at the Healthy Kids Fair on the South Lawn of the White House in 2009. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – Across America, cities, towns and counties are supporting healthy afters-school programs and youth sports leagues. Here kids attend a Let's Move! event at Woldenberg Park in New Orleans in 2010. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – Through the initiative, millions of kids are attending healthier day care centers, where fruits and vegetables have replaced cookies and juice. Michelle Obama speaks at a Let's Move! Walmart announcement at The Arc in Washington in 2010. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – Nearly 9 million kids participate in the Let's Move! Active Schools program and get 60 minutes of physical activity a day. Nearly 5 million kids will be attending healthier after-school programs in the next five years. The first lady meets with students in New Hampshire Estates Elementary School in Silver Spring, Maryland, in 2010. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – The first lady speaks about Let's Move! at the Visitors Center in Red Rock Canyon, Nevada, in 2010. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – Childhood obesity rates have finally stopped rising -- and obesity rates are actually falling among our youngest children, according to Let's Move! initiative. The first lady attends the White House Kitchen Garden harvest on the South Lawn in 2010. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – While Let's Move! has made strides in helping kids become healthy, the statistics are still daunting. Here she attends a partnership event with Chicago Blackhawks and Washington Capitals players on the South Lawn of the White House in 2011. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – First lady Michelle Obama and Ellen DeGeneres dance during a taping of "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" marking the second anniversary of Let's Move! in Burbank, California, in 2012. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – America still spends nearly $200 billion a year on obesity-related health care costs, and that figure will jump to nearly $350 billion a year by 2018, according to Let's Move! campaign. Michelle Obama visits the Fresh Grocer store in Philadelphia in 2010. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – The first lady attends a chef's demonstration with third-grade students from Pocantico Hill School and John F. Kennedy Magnet School, before a luncheon at Blue Hill Farm in Pocantico Hills, New York, in 2010. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Michelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program MIchelle Obama's 'Let's Move!' program – First lady says she is committed to giving kids the healthy futures they deserve. Here she works with chefs and students in the White House Kitchen Garden on the South Lawn in 2010. Hide Caption 12 of 12 He had the foresight, through the Recovery Act, to plant the seeds of a renewable energy industry that has blossomed and is the future. It will not be turned back. He fought for equal rights for all Americans and helped lead to a sea change in how gay Americans are treated. On this issue, our country is not going back. And while the incoming administration and Congress have made the repeal of Obamacare their rallying cry, no longer is it considered acceptable for people with pre-existing conditions to be refused insurance, or women to be charged exponentially more than men. Americans now expect to be able to cover their adult children up to the age of 26, and they won't accept any plan that dumps 20 million Americans from the insurance rolls. The reforms that have cut costs and improved care and helped curb runaway inflation in health care spending have changed the industry in lasting ways. Perhaps spurred by fears of repeal without an adequate replacement, the health care law derisively named for the president by its opponents has never polled as well or been as popular as it is today. Obama has shifted the starting point for the debate on health care. Wherever it lands, we are never going back to where we were eight years ago. Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Barack Obama, then a Democratic presidential hopeful, addresses voters at a January 2008 rally in Des Moines, Iowa, accompanied by his wife, Michelle, and daughters Malia and Sasha, then 9 and 6, respectively. Click through the gallery to see how the Obama girls grew up before the nation after their father's 2008 election as President. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The family hands out food for Thanksgiving in their hometown of Chicago in November 2008 shortly after Barack Obama's campaign victory. Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Obama takes the oath of office with his family by his side on January 20, 2009, at the US Capitol. Sasha is at far right, next to Malia. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The President takes Malia, left, and Sasha for a walk with their new dog, Bo, on the South Lawn of the White House in April 2009. The Portuguese water dog was a gift from Sen. Edward Kennedy. The first family chose the purebreed puppy largely because of Malia's allergies. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Sasha watches her dad from the Truman Balcony after he arrives on the South Lawn of the White House in May 2009. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Sasha and Malia play with Bo as they wait for their dad's helicopter to land at the White House in September 2009. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Sasha looks at a turkey named Courage during a Thanksgiving tradition to "pardon" a turkey in November 2009. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Malia and Sasha read a book to children during a visit to a hospital in Washington in December 2009. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present With an assist from his wife and daughters, Obama presses the button to light the National Christmas Tree on December 2009 at the Ellipse near the White House. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Sasha and her mother serve meals to the needy in Washington in January 2010. The President and Malia also helped in the dining room. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present President Obama and Sasha watch a WNBA game in Washington in August 2010. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The first lady and her daughters read to children as they visit a community center in Johannesburg in June 2011. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The first family greets children dressed as elves at a museum in Washington in December 2011. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The President walks with his daughters after a visit to Sea Life Park in Hawaii in December 2011. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The first family sings with Kermit the Frog at the National Tree lighting ceremony in December 2011. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Obama gives Malia a hug and a kiss after not kissing his wife, Michelle, on the "Kiss Cam" at the Verizon Center in July 2012. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The first family walks across Lafayette Park to attend Sunday services in Washington in August 2012. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The President and his daughters watch on television as the first lady gives a speech at the Democratic National Convention in September 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present President Obama greets his wife and daughters after being sworn in for his second term in January 2013. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The first daughters take a selfie of themselves during the presidential inaugural parade on January 21, 2013, in Washington. Malia was 14 and Sasha 11 at the time of their father's second inaugural. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Obama, with Sasha, center, and Malia, pays for a purchase at the Politics & Prose bookstore in northwest Washington in November 2013. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The first lady and her daughters receive an escort from Patrick Prendergast, provost and president of Trinity College Dublin, during their June 2013 visit to Ireland. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The first family sings during the finale of TNT's "Christmas in Washington" program in December 2013. Michelle Obama's mother, Marian Robinson, and the program's host, actor Hugh Jackman, are at left. Time Warner is the parent company of TNT and CNN. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Obama and Sasha make burritos at DC Central Kitchen as part of a service project on Martin Luther King Jr. Day in January 2014. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Michelle Obama shares a light moment with her daughters as they visit the Mutianyu section of the Great Wall of China in March 2014. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The Obamas head to Marine One as they leave the White House for a wedding in August 2014. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present The first family takes the stage during a taping of the "Christmas in Washington" program in December 2014. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Malia and Sasha arrive at the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, in March 2015. The Obamas were in Alabama to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Bloody Sunday , when state troopers clubbed and tear-gassed civil rights marchers headed to Montgomery. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Sasha, left, and Malia join their dad as he delivers remarks for the turkey pardoning ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White House in November 2015. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Malia and Sasha Obama, grandmother Marian Robinson, the first lady and President attend the National Christmas Tree lighting ceremony on the Ellipse south of the White House in December 2015. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Malia attends a state dinner at the White House in March 2016. The dinner was in honor of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and first lady Sophie Gregoire-Trudeau. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Sasha attends the Trudeau state dinner in March 2016. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Obama hugs Malia at the White House Fourth of July party in 2016. She was celebrating her 18th birthday during the party, which included musicians Janelle Monae and Kendrick Lamar. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Malia and Sasha Obama: 2008-present Obama and the first lady head to the tarmac to board Air Force One with their daughters Malia, right, and Sasha, left, at Air Station Cape Cod in Massachusetts in August 2016. Hide Caption 34 of 34 Beyond his many durable achievements, nothing will erase the memory of a president who brought dignity, honor and integrity to the Oval Office. He set high standards of conduct for those around him. He and his family were wonderful role models, so welcome in these times of coarsening culture. We'll remember those moments of amazing grace, when he lifted our spirits, and the evenness with which he faced an implacable and sometimes bitter opposition. Through eight challenging years, he never succumbed to cynicism. He came as a believer in the fundamental ideals of our democracy, he pushed for them and he leaves as their champion. I stopped in to see my old friend on his final day in the Oval Office. I told him how proud I was of him and grateful to have been along for some of this amazing journey. "We did some good work here," he said. As administrations change, it might feel like the end of the world to those who worked for this president and to some of the many Americans who, by the latest counts, like and support him. It is not. Whatever happens next, he has done some good work that cannot be erased and will not be forgotten.
Coral Springs, Florida (CNN) The former student who gunned down 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, recorded his plans on three cellphone videos, saying in one that he would try to kill at least 20 people. According to newly released transcripts of the videos obtained from a source close to the investigation, Nikolas Cruz details how he will carry out the shooting. "I'm gonna go take Uber in the afternoon before 2:40 (p.m.). From there I'll go into -- onto school campus, walk up the stairs, unload my bags and get my AR and shoot people down at the man -- what is it? -- the main courtyard, wait, and people will die," he says. Investigators discovered the videos on the gunman's cellphone, which was taken into evidence after the shooting. The videos are listed on the prosecution's discovery list. Authorities didn't say when the videos were recorded. "He knew what he was doing," said Andrew Pollack, father of Meadow Pollack, a senior who was killed. Pollack said that Cruz, whom he refers to as "18-1958" (Cruz's case number), won't be able to claim at trial that he was insane or that he didn't know what he was doing. "It's all premeditated murder." Read More
RIO BRAVO, Texas ― The vague message J.C. Gonzalez received over the radio on May 23 led him to believe that it was the Border Patrol agent who’d been shot. But when this tiny border town’s fire chief arrived on the scene, it was Claudia Gómez, an unarmed, 20-year-old Guatemalan immigrant, who lay dying in an empty lot, her legs tangled upon each other. The bullet from the Border Patrol agent’s firearm had pierced the left side of her forehead around her hairline and exited through the rear side of her skull. She was still breathing, so the chief drove back to the fire station, a few blocks away, to retrieve a neck brace and backboard to stabilize her head and spine. Then Gonzalez’s partner and a Border Patrol agent ― Gonzalez didn’t know whether it was the one who had fired the shot ― took turns administering chest compressions. By the time emergency medical services arrived, Gómez was dead. Officers from the Texas Department of Public Safety, the Webb County Sheriff’s Office, Texas Rangers and Laredo Police gathered around her body. A medical evacuation helicopter landed nearby. Marta Martinez, a resident who lived next to the empty lot, filmed the aftermath and streamed it live on Facebook, spreading the news to millions of people. When Gonzalez went back to the station, he left behind the medical supplies he’d brought, which became evidence in an investigation into the shooting led by the FBI. Details remain scarce about the circumstances that prompted the 15-year veteran of Border Patrol, whom the agency has not named while the investigation proceeds, to pull the trigger. The circumstances appear damning. The agent had responded to a report of illegal activity near a culvert where the town meets the river, according to Customs and Border Protection. The agency initially released a statement saying that the group refused to obey the agent when he confronted them and that some of them attacked him with “blunt objects.” CBP walked the story back the next day, saying instead the group had “ignored his verbal commands and rushed him.” Neither Gómez nor the group of three other unauthorized immigrants on the scene, who were later apprehended, were armed. The shooting took place midday on one of the town’s main streets, but no one has claimed publicly that they witnessed it. Gómez’s family plans to sue Border Patrol over the killing. JOHAN ORDONEZ via Getty Images Dominga Vicente shows a photo of her niece Claudia Gómez during a press conference in Guatemala City on May 25, 2018. The family demanded justice and called for her body to be sent back home so they could bury her in her native village. Gonzalez, an Army veteran who worked for several years as a deputy sheriff, worried the incident would undermine trust with Border Patrol in a town where that confidence has always been scarce. In Rio Bravo, illegal crossings are so common that parents urge their kids to avoid playing in the river to keep from getting caught up in law enforcement operations and to use caution in the street to avoid Border Patrol trucks whizzing by. People in Rio Bravo have never trusted Border Patrol, Gonzalez said. And the agency’s reputation had already taken a blow earlier this year, when another Border Patrol agent who worked in the same county, Ronald Anthony Burgos Aviles, was arrested on accusations of killing his mistress and her 1-year-old son. Several residents ― most of whom declined to be named for fear of angering Border Patrol or inviting threats, like the ones Marta Martínez received after posting her video to Facebook ― viewed the shooting with suspicion. One longtime resident who lives near the river said it was a common occurrence for people to run through his property and scale the fence to evade Border Patrol, before he put up a gate to keep them out. He also installed security cameras and wished his neighbors had too. “Yeah, I trust them,” he said, speaking in Spanish, of Border Patrol. “But then they do these things and you don’t. If it would’ve happened here, it would’ve been filmed and then we’d have evidence.” Even so, many of them are willing to give the agent the benefit of the doubt, given the lack of details about the first Border Patrol shooting in the city’s history. “No one likes them here,” another resident, speaking in Spanish, said of Border Patrol. But having crossed himself illegally in the past, he also knows first-hand the pressure that grinds upon the agents that used to chase him. “It’s like any other job,” he said. “You get frustrated. That will trick your mind.” Mayor Francisco Peña would rather have been planning his town’s first city-sponsored Independence Day celebration when he heard of the shooting last week. He himself had crossed from Mexico at age 4, not knowing that he was an undocumented immigrant. (He adjusted his status decades later, after realizing that his father’s birth in Laredo qualified him for U.S. citizenship.) Peña went on to serve in the Army, fight in the Korean War, work as a teacher and become a medical doctor. He suspected that Gómez, who earned a college degree in accounting but migrated after struggling to find work, might have have made similar contributions if given the chance. As the leader of a town with an $800,000 budget and no local police force along the banks of an unfenced section of the Rio Grande, he wished he had more Border Patrol agents. People wade through the river almost every day, and he has little faith in the technology the agency uses to catch them. He’s seen people walk up from the banks of the river on all fours like dogs or roll like logs, which he thinks allows them to evade the Border Patrol’s sensors. But after the killing, Peña found himself struggling to balance his sympathy for Gómez with his loyalty to the Border Patrol in a town where illegal crossings and drug trafficking are a fact of daily life. He feels certain the shooting was accidental, though he acknowledged it had unsettled the town, where many residents are undocumented. It was clear, he thought, that Gómez was not one of the “animals” the president sometimes spoke about. He was frustrated, too: Over the last four years, the last two Republican governors have spent more than $2 billion to send state Department of Public Safety troopers and the National Guard to border towns like Rio Bravo. But the state ignored more mundane public safety requests. Roque Planas Rio Bravo Mayor Francisco Peña displays architectural plans for a park the city will inaugurate on July 4, 2018. The park will sit directly across from the culvert where a migrant woman named Claudia Gómez allegedly crossed into the United States before a Border Patrol agent shot and killed her. When Tropical Storm Charley hit Rio Bravo in 1998, flooding at the edge of the Rio Grande destroyed several houses that remain abandoned to this day. Local officials insist that human traffickers and drug smugglers use the structures as safe houses. But state lawmakers in Austin ignored Peña’s requests since 2015 for funding to buy the properties from the current owners and tear them down. His last ask in January of 2017 totaled $200,000. Mayor Peña doubts that the cat-and-mouse game between Border Patrol and the immigrants coming to his town to try to make a better life will ever end. But he hopes the killing won’t dampen the patriotic fervor he hopes to instill at the city’s first official Independence Day celebration in July. The abandoned houses will remain for now, but he’s looking forward to unveiling a new park, with an outdoor theater and public gathering space. It sits on Tuliapán Drive, directly in front of the culvert where CBP says that Gómez crossed. He’s recruited young residents for a kite-flying show and goal-scoring contest on the new soccer field. And he’s curated a list of songs he hopes will encourage the town to feel the same sense of national pride that he does, including a special rendition of “America the Beautiful.” It’s by Tejano musician Jay Perez.
Cypress, Texas (CNN) Dortha Biggs enters through the front door and rushes to greet her daughter, Lesli, who sits in a recliner, curled in fetal position. Mother and daughter lock hands and begin a ritualistic rubbing of hands, the only way they can communicate. It's rhythmic and intimate, beautiful and heartbreaking. Lesli squeals as her mother holds her right hand and pats her left. A smile starts to radiate from Lesli's face. "Looka there," Dortha says. "Are you going to smile? Can you smile? There's that smile!" Ever since Lesli was born 48 years ago, Dortha has longed to hear her daughter say a single word. She cried more tears than anyone can imagine, rocking young Lesli every night for years on end. Mom would get maybe an hour or two of sleep before heading off to her teaching job. "Because you just care so much," Dortha says. Dortha contracted rubella when she was 2½ weeks pregnant, before she even knew that she was expecting. Although she got better, the virus took root in her fetus' bone cells, nerve cells and skin cells. It would leave Lesli blind, deaf and severely brain-damaged. She spent 100 days in the hospital before her first birthday and has undergone more than 20 surgeries over the years, including an open-heart operation at 3 months that left her ribs broken. Lesli has lived in a Houston-area group home since 2000. Dortha, 77, now lives in Oklahoma and visits as often as she can, about eight times a year. As the two hold hands, Dortha ponders whether her daughter knows who she is. "I don't think she's aware that I'm her mother," she says. "I think she is aware that I'm someone special who cares about her." Dortha Biggs rubs her daughter's hands, the only means they have of communicating. It's been a grueling journey for both. Mom yearns for the one thing that is unattainable: for Lesli to get better or just to enjoy the simplicities of life. Lesli lives in a dark, silent, isolated world in her group home, unable to communicate with her mother beyond touch. Four decades earlier, mother and daughter made headlines when the Texas Supreme Court issued a landmark ruling. Dortha had sued her doctor, accusing him of failing to diagnose the rubella. If she'd known, she would have had an abortion. On February 19, 1975 -- three years after Roe v. Wade -- about 60 women filed into the Supreme Court chamber in unison and took up seats in support of Dortha's case. The women heard a decision that stunned the legal community and reversed lower court rulings that had sided with the doctor. The high court's ruling set a precedent that said a woman could sue her doctor for a "wrongful birth." Dortha, who stayed home, learned of the ruling through the news. This year, the news brought Dortha another shock: A Texas state senator had introduced a bill that would ban such lawsuits -- in essence, overturning the precedent she helped set. And he invoked her case, saying wrongful birth lawsuits such as hers promoted abortion. "The presence of a disability in a child should not be grounds for a lawsuit," Sen. Brandon Creighton told his colleagues. "It sends the message that there are births that are wrongful. There are no wrongful births." Dortha was outraged. Never once did a lawmaker reach out to her. Never was she asked to testify in committee hearings. Never did they ask about Lesli. If they had, she would have told them of the pain her daughter has suffered since she was born March 8, 1969, in Wichita Falls, Texas. Of traveling more than 100,000 miles to hospitals in Dallas, Baltimore, Washington and San Francisco -- anything to give her little Lesli the best shot in life. "If you have not watched your daughter suffer pain -- pain that was just hell -- for days and days," Dortha says, "you cannot even grasp the pain that you experience." She'd have told those under the Capitol dome how she dedicated her life to special needs children for more than 30 years. Of designing the curriculum for disabled children in public schools, first in Dallas and then in Wichita Falls. Lesli's portrait hangs on the wall at the group home where she lives. Tormented by the virus that wrecked her child, she wrote her master's thesis on rubella and its devastating effects in pregnancy. Many nights, Dortha weeps. "I would have given anything to have never been born," she says. "Because had I not been born, she would not have been born and suffered this." A legal legacy Dortha is like a hawk, making sure Lesli's hair is cut short so she won't yank it out, checking to make sure her wheelchair works and monitoring the cleanliness of her bedroom. The day after her visit, a scene reminiscent of the 1975 Texas Supreme Court ruling played out across the state in Austin. More than a dozen women dressed in long red robes and white bonnets sat in the chamber of the Texas Senate, their outfits matching characters from "The Handmaid's Tale," the popular dystopian novel that explores themes of power, gender and religion in politics. They were there to protest two anti-abortion measures, including the bill that would undo Dortha's legal legacy. It's a saga that began in the summer of 1968. Deposition transcripts tell the story: Dortha had fallen ill with "nausea, shivering attacks, cramping of the stomach" during a July Fourth trip with her husband to Port Aransas on the Texas coast. A pinpoint rash broke out across the top of her face and eventually extended "downward to other portions" of her body, including her legs. The possibility of being pregnant was the last thing on her mind. She was 28 and on birth control. She had a son and had planned to have a second child sometime down the road. She spoke by phone with Dr. Louis M. Theimer, the well-regarded family practitioner in Wichita Falls who opened his practice in 1953 and delivered hundreds, if not thousands, of the town's babies. He'd delivered Dortha's first child, Jake, on December 24, 1961. Theimer had seen her just before the trip. She wasn't feeling well then, but she told him she was feeling much worse now. Dortha and her husband of 32 years, Tom Biggs, visit Lesli as often as they can. She first saw a doctor in Port Aransas and was given antibiotics. When she returned home, she was still ill. She saw Theimer on July 11, 1968. He believed she might be pregnant and ran a test. She mentioned that she had a rash on her vacation but didn't ask about the possibility of rubella, also known as German measles -- at least not yet. Four days later, Dortha returned and was informed that she was indeed pregnant. She broke down, fearing that the rash was rubella and that her fetus would be harmed. It was the summer of 1968. A rubella epidemic had swept across the United States from 1963 to 1965. The diagnosis during pregnancy was a deep fear among any expectant mother, similar to how Zika took hold in Central and South America last summer. Rubella was known to cause deafness, blindness, heart disease, neuromuscular tightness, seizures and extreme intellectual disabilities. If the mother got rubella in the first two months of pregnancy, it was known to be especially debilitating, continuing to live in the child long after birth. "I was alarmed," Dortha testified. "He told me the test was positive and I was pregnant." "I said ... 'Could this rash that I had have been measles?' And his statement was, 'No, if you hadn't had measles (as a child), you would have had them in the '64-'65 epidemic.' " In his deposition, Theimer equivocated when asked about that conversation but acknowledged that he believed her rash was from an antibiotic, not rubella. Three times during her pregnancy, Dortha's body tried to spontaneously abort. Believing her child to be healthy, each time she agreed for shots to be administered to stop her contractions and save the fetus. "After I was told I did not have rubella, I very definitely wanted the baby," she testified. And what would she have done if she'd been informed that she had rubella? "I would have done the kindest thing that I could have known to have done for her," Dortha said, "and that would have been to terminate the pregnancy." Abortions were illegal in Texas at the time. She said she would've traveled to Colorado for the procedure. Theimer acknowledged that he never ran a test on Dortha to determine the presence of rubella antibodies. "No, I never did," he said. Born blind, deaf and severely brain-damaged, Lesli Jacobs lives in a silent world. A Christian, the doctor said he had no religious scruples against abortion. He added that he would inform patients if he believed they have "a possibility of having a deformed fetus." "That's what I tell them, but I think the choice after that is theirs," Theimer said. "I agree with you. That's the whole case," Dortha's attorney shot back. "Doctor, did you give this patient of yours that choice medically?" "No," he said. "I didn't think she ever had rubella." 'No right to judge' It's those words that still haunt, still sting. Time has not healed the wounds of the doctor's misdiagnosis. "Now, they're punishing me again," she says of the legislation at the state Capitol. The fact that Creighton, the bill's author, implied that people like her were just looking for a payout, she says, is "beyond insulting." Creighton also argued that the mere threat of wrongful birth suits kept the best doctors from setting up practice in Texas and could lead to a shortage. To this, Dortha says, "Despicable." "It would've been nice if they'd just contacted me." Infuriated at the news of the measure, her fingers clapped at her keyboard as she typed a letter to Creighton. "I have stood over her bed for hundreds of nights watching her suffering," she wrote. "If you have not experienced this heartbreak, you have no right to judge." Dortha and Lesli made headlines when the Texas Supreme Court agreed parents could sue doctors for "wrongful birth." After the Supreme Court ruling, her family received about $120,000 in a settlement reached with Theimer -- money that was placed in a special needs trust for Lesli. At the time, the family owed $21,472 in medical bills. Back then, Dortha made just $4,200 a year as a teacher. After the suit, she was forced to move from Wichita Falls to Dallas because doctors back home refused to treat her two children. Her marriage to Lesli's father didn't survive the move. Dortha has left the money in the trust mostly untouched in recent years, preferring to pay Lesli's out-of-pocket costs with her own money. It's a burden she's more than willing to take on. That way, there is money left for Lesli's care long after Mom is gone. Dortha keeps a yellow scrapbook called "The First Six Years." The first page announces Lesli's birth, hailing the 6-pound, 10½-ounce girl. Next to it, a black-and-white photograph shows Lesli with her mouth open and both fists clenched. Memories burst from the album's pages. Lesli's 7-year-old brother, Jake, beams on the couch, his little sister in his arms. On her 4th birthday, Lesli sits in front of a giant cake shaped like a teddy bear. The message below, like others in the scrapbook, is in Lesli's voice, written as her mother imagined it: "I have now learned to sit alone, and in four more months, I will crawl. My teachers worked on helping me sit for over three years." Turn the page. Lesli is sprawled out, crawling. "I no longer have to just lie where someone places me." But there are sobering reminders, too. "At one time, I took over 40 medications daily." "If only you could hear me long enough to say, 'I love you.' " On the back page is a final note, which Dortha reads in a soft, hushed Texas twang. "This has been the story of my first 6 years. I have brought a new kind of love and strength into the lives of many," she reads. "I have fought hard and suffered to live. Very few days of my life are without pain, but still I smile." Dortha, right, and her husband have spent countless hours touching and stroking Lesli. Mom closes the book and uses tissue to dab her eyes. "I did try for so long to think that things would be a lot better, and then you start accepting," she says. "You have to learn to accept that some things are going to just be." Dortha accepted that the milestones would become few and far between. Lesli would never learn to stand on her own. She would never speak. She would never hear her mom's words: "I love you." Who gets to decide? Lesli sits in a wheelchair in her room, her head hunched over. She sports a crew cut. If her hair grows out much more than an inch, she'll pull it out. One of her eyes was removed due to cataracts. Her other is so deteriorated, it's hard to tell whether it's even there. Her group home sits in a cul-de-sac in Cypress, Texas, about 25 miles northwest of Houston. The spacious three-bedroom brick home with wood siding blends in well with the four residential homes on the street. The only thing that distinguishes the house is the specialty van with wheelchair access in the driveway. It's a home she shares with five others, all of whom receive round-the-clock care. The letters L-E-S-L-I gaze down from the wall above her bed. Next to them rests a cowboy hat. Dortha rubs her daughter's right hand. Dortha's husband of 32 years, Tom Biggs, runs his fingers back and forth across the back of her neck. Dortha decided he was a keeper when he didn't cut and run like most guys upon seeing the severity of Lesli's disabilities. "He has patted hands as many hours as I have," she says. Dortha never gave birth to another child. Shortly after Lesli was born, she was told that her baby was perfect. She had her tubes tied three days later. The following week, Dortha spotted cataracts in her daughter's eyes, the start of the arduous journey they're still traveling. Standing over her daughter, Dortha has a message for the senator who drafted the bill. "Senator Creighton has not stood where I have stood or walked in my shoes. He has not," she says. "He has not stood and watched a child suffer like this." She says it's interesting that the current administration in Washington, as well as Texas lawmakers, wants to deregulate everything from the EPA to banks to businesses. "But when it comes to the most intimate decisions an individual has to make, it's 'let's put more regulations on that.' "I'm the one who should have made the decision." Does she still wish her daughter had never been born? "Yes," she says. Lesli has lived in this group home since 2000; she shares it with five others. Holding her daughter's right hand, Dortha chokes up. Lesli places her mother's right hand on the back of her neck. Mom strokes her daughter's head. Tom rubs Lesli's left arm. Mom continues talking through her tears: "Because I have had the joy of loving her, but I've had the sorrow of watching her suffer. She has suffered so much of her life. If she could have come through the suffering and come through it and be able to enjoy her life more, I think it would have been a different issue." Mother and daughter now hold hands. Lesli moans. "But, no, I could never have said I want her to experience this -- just to be born. Anyone who would say they thought that was the right thing to do has not stood and watched a child suffer like this." She understands that those words in her daughter's presence might come across as cruel or twisted, but she reiterates that it's for the love of her daughter and the freedom from her pain that she wishes she'd had an abortion or allowed her body to abort naturally. "I could never have made the choice to have terminated the pregnancy for me or the hardships that it would bring on me," she says. "But I could have in a heartbeat for her -- knowing what she was going to go through.'" 'The wrong message' More than a dozen specialty vans line up about 8:30 a.m. at a community center about 15 minutes from Lesli's home. It's on the grounds of the faith-based nonprofit that runs Lesli's home and several others in the surrounding area. Every weekday, about 70 residents from the various group homes are driven to the center for specialized treatment. It's the first day of spring, and the Texas heat is already suffocating, pushing 80 degrees. Lesli is helped from her van in her wheelchair and escorted into a cavernous building with polished floors. She comes here for therapy and worship. Once in class, Lesli takes up a seat in a beige recliner and relaxes. Class leader Catherine Konneh brings over bean bags and rubber balls so she can feel them. Lesli pushes them away. Konneh tries a variety of scents to arouse her olfactory senses. Lesli holds her nose over the smell of strawberry and takes in the aroma. Konneh's goal for Lesli is to someday wash her hands on her own. "I keep (the residents) active," she says, "so that whatever skills they have, they won't lose them." Next, everyone moves to the fellowship hall, where therapy dogs greet the crowd. Lesli seems more interested in the touch of the dog handlers than the dogs. She grabs the trainers' hands and places them on the back of her neck. When a fluffy white dog named Lammie licks her face, she backs up her wheelchair. But a black pooch named Omri makes a breakthrough. Omri places one paw on her leg, and she pets him with the help of the handler. Lesli pushed away bean bags and rubber balls but welcomed the chance to pet Omri with his handler's help. By early afternoon, Lesli, Dortha and Tom meet with staff for her annual review, going over her care for the upcoming year. The severity of her disabilities are rattled off: blind, deaf, cerebral palsy, allergies, seizure disorder, autism. Even the most minute details are covered. All tags on her shirts must be cut off because they annoy her. Her wheelchair footrest must be down at all times to keep her from falling. Pay attention to her picking at her underwear. She prefers hot lunches, preferably noodles with no MSG. Lesli moans through much of the session and plays with Konneh's hands while Mom listens. Her care for the upcoming year will cost about $200,000. Medicare and Medicaid will cover most of it. More than two hours away in Austin, state senators take up the wrongful birth bill. Dressed in a navy suit and light blue tie, Creighton stands on the floor and tells his colleagues that Senate Bill 25 prohibits "patients from suing their physician for lifelong payments, claiming that they would not have had their baby had they known different information. It removes the wrongful birth cause of action." He says doctors currently are "overcautiously suggesting termination in order to protect themselves." Democratic Sen. Jose Rodriguez of El Paso pushes back, saying the current law exists to protect women like Dortha and remains relevant even today. He said the Texas Supreme Court found that the doctor "had failed to carry out his obligation of fully informing the patient." "It's about ultimately the woman's right to receive accurate information from her doctor, so she can make an informed choice," Rodriguez says. The bill sails through. It must now go before the House for final approval. Creighton soaks in the moment not too long after the vote. He tells CNN Senior Medical Correspondent Elizabeth Cohen that it is time for the "archaic 40-year-old cause of action" to go away. "It just sends the wrong message," he says. "It sends a message that the best physicians in America should not practice in Texas because ... you have to consider that you could be held liable just for doing your job correctly." Told that's not true -- and certainly not what happened in Dortha's case -- Creighton insists that he's correct because lawyers are clever and "you can be sued for anything." Lesli touches the plants as she is wheeled outside. On weekdays, she attends therapy at a nearby community center. Asked why he never contacted Dortha, he offers several answers. First, he says it's because of privacy concerns -- even though he brought her case into the fight. Then, he says he can't contact everyone from past cases about new legislation. He says he plans to respond to her letter but hasn't had time. He says he hopes to meet her one day. He says he was especially moved by her "exceptional" letter. "I'm very, very proud of her, almost to a heroic standpoint, just what it takes to raise a child and the challenges in disabilities." Legal experts say wrongful birth suits are rarely filed and certainly don't scare doctors from opening up practice in Texas. One former director of the Texas Medical Board told a Senate panel that her agency had investigated only five wrongful birth cases since 1975, according to Courthouse News Service. Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. And while Creighton maintains that an expectant mother who is given a wrong diagnosis during pregnancy would still have other means to pursue a lawsuit, legal scholars say that is not true. If you take away the wrongful birth cause of action, "there is no other action," said George Annas, director of the Center for Health Law, Ethics & Human Rights at Boston University. "What this guy doesn't like is making a decision to terminate a pregnancy," Annas said. "He doesn't want you to do that." That motivation was on display just before Creighton answered CNN's questions. A lawmaker stopped by and slapped him on the back: "Congratulations, you're the only senator who's gotten a pro-life bill through this session." The irony, Dortha says, is that the first thing to go when GOP-led legislatures begin slashing budgets is money for programs serving the special-needs and mentally ill communities. Put more precisely, she says, they care only when a child is in the womb, not after. "They don't love my daughter. They don't know my daughter," she says. If they cared, she says, they would have contacted her. They would have toured her daughter's group home. They would have held Lesli's hand.
A day after Arkady Babchenko was reported to have been killed, it was revealed that his death was staged by Ukranian security services, apparently to expose a plot to kill him. A full update on this story can be read here. Moscow (CNN) Moscow and Kiev are blaming each other for the death of Russian journalist Arkady Babchenko, who was shot dead in his apartment building in the Ukrainian capital on Tuesday. Ukrainian Prime Minister Volodymyr Groysman implied Russia had orchestrated the killing. Babchenko was a vocal critic of the Kremlin and left Russia in 2017, saying he no longer felt safe there. "I'm sure that the Russian totalitarian machine did not forgive him his honesty and his fidelity to principle," Groysman said in a Facebook post. "Best friend of Ukraine, who told the truth about Russian aggression to the world. The murderers must be punished!" Arkady Babchenko covering unrest in Kiev, Ukraine, on January 22, 2014. Ukrainian state news agency Ukrinform said Babchenko, 41, was shot in the back and died in an ambulance, citing his friend and supervisor, Ayder Muzhdabaev, deputy general manager of Ukrainian TV channel ATR. Read More
CNN National Security Analyst John Kirby is a retired rear admiral in the US Navy who served as a spokesman for both the State and Defense departments in the Obama administration. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) If you need any more proof -- and by now you shouldn't -- of how effective the Iran deal has been, look no further than Saturday's edition of The Guardian/Observer. Reporters Mark Townsend and Julian Borger reported that aides to President Trump hired an Israeli private intelligence agency, Black Cube, to "dig up dirt" on former Obama administration officials involved in negotiating and/or defending the deal as part of an effort to discredit them and, by association, the deal itself. According to the story, which said it was based on documents seen by Guardian/Observer reporters, investigators contracted by Black Cube were told to examine the personal lives and political careers of Ben Rhodes, Obama's deputy national security adviser for strategic communications, and Colin Kahl, a national security adviser to former vice-president Joe Biden. Sources cited by the New Yorker's Ronan Farrow gave a different account, asserting that the effort, rather than ordered up by aides to Trump, was part of Black Cube's work for a private-sector client pursuing commercial interests related to sanctions on Iran. "Black Cube has no relation whatsoever to the Trump administration, to Trump aides, to anyone close to the administration, or to the Iran nuclear deal. Anyone who claims otherwise is misleading their readers and viewers," the firm said in a statement. In any event, investigators were apparently also told to look at potential involvement by Rhodes or Kahl with Iran-friendly lobbyists, personal or political gains they may have received from the deal, and any inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information that may have resulted from their defense of it. Just how desperate would you have to be to use an attack like this to torpedo the Iran deal? Quite a bit, apparently. You sure can't point to Iranian non-compliance. The International Atomic Energy Agency stole that thunder, having consistently verified Iran's compliance with the deal since it went into effect three years ago. (And so has Donald Trump up to this point, by the way.) You can't say our generals hate it. Defense Secretary Mattis and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Marine General Joseph Dunford, have both said publicly they believe Iran is in compliance. In fact, Mattis recently lauded the deal's inspection regime. You can't even say Israeli generals hate it. Israeli Chief of Staff Lt. General Gadi Eisenkot told a reporter from the newspaper Haaretz that, "Right now the agreement, with all its faults, is working and is putting off realization of the Iranian nuclear vision by 10 to 15 years." And you can't blame it on the allies. Every one of the other so-called P5 partners to the deal -- Russia, China, the EU, and the UN -- all have made a similar case, apparently to no avail. In just the last couple weeks, leaders from France, Germany and the United Kingdom have all visited Washington, DC to deliver that message. The British Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson, was in town Monday meeting with the new Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Johnson admitted the two talked about the Iran deal but offered no details. So, in the face of all that support for the deal, it looks like someone thought the best way to make it easier for Trump to scuttle the deal was to go after two guys no longer in government. Nothing desperate about that, right? My first reaction to the story was outrage. First of all, like pretty much the rest of the world, I believe the deal is working and, more critically, I believe that keeping it in place is very much in our national security interests. It is not a perfect deal. Even former Secretary of State John Kerry admitted as much at the time. But it is indisputably preventing Iran from having the bomb, and I can't think of any other problem in the Middle East that gets easier to solve should the mullahs ever get their hands on one. Secondly, I know both Ben and Colin. I had the privilege of working closely with them over the course of many years, both in my capacity as Pentagon Press Secretary and as the State Department spokesman. You won't find two more dedicated, intelligent, honest and hard-working public servants anywhere. Opponents of President Obama's worldview and politics can take issue all they want with the policy decisions that Ben and Colin advocated and informed. That's fair. They signed up for that. But they sure as hell didn't sign up for intrusions into their personal lives and relationships long after their public service ... and for no other reason than that they believed they were acting in the best interests of the American people. To see them and their families allegedly targeted in this fashion ought to boil the blood and send chills down the neck of every freedom-loving American. I want to believe the story is wrong, that Trump's aides or the private sector client mentioned by the New Yorker -- indeed, anyone -- had no part in such a despicable ploy. But there's no denying how much Trump hates the deal, which he has labeled the "worst deal ever." As one European diplomat put it today, "When it comes to the Iran nuclear deal, there is plainly a difference of opinion and that cannot be denied. And I would like to pretend to you today that I feel that there is a chance of the existing JCPOA remaining intact -- I think that that chance may exist, but it is very small. It's pretty obvious to me that unless something changes in the next few days, I believe the President will not waive the sanctions." Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Regrettably, we won't have to wait a few days. President Trump announced Monday that he will reveal his decision Tuesday afternoon. Since it doesn't appear the Europeans changed his thinking much, we should brace ourselves for the likelihood that US nuclear-related sanctions on Iran will snap back into place and for the equally troubling likelihood that Tehran will declare the deal null and void. It is a measure of how effective the Iran deal has been that anyone would even think to stoop so low as to discredit its authors. But it is also measure of how foolish we would be rip it up regardless, without any assurances of anything to take its place. I fear we must brace ourselves for the grim reality that we'll be looking back at May 8, 2018 as the day all our other problems in the Middle East got a whole lot tougher to deal with.
If you’ve ever been on the wrong side of a long night out after, say, age 29, you don’t need to be told. You feel both baffled about and nostalgic for a time, just a few years ago, when you could have one too many and wake up early, bright eyed and ready for spin class. What gives? There’s one aspect of growing older that does not age like a fine wine: Hangovers . While the science of the phenomenon ― and how to make it better ― is still difficult for researchers to pin down, experts have some theories as to why your body just can’t handle sharing a pitcher of margaritas anymore: Theory 1: Your have fewer liver enzymes. Let’s start: Alcohol is a toxicant, so when you drink it, your body has to break down and shed the toxic compound of ethanol. Enzymes in your liver are responsible for this process, turning the adult beverage you’ve consumed into a compound called acetaldehyde. An enzyme ― called aldehyde dehydrogenase ― is responsible for morphing acetaldehyde into a substance called acetate, which then turns into properties like carbon dioxide and water. For every serving of alcohol ― a glass of wine, a rum and coke, etc. ― it takes approximately one hour for your liver to do this. As Science of Us pointed out, this process works fairly efficiently when you’re younger, but, as you get older, your body’s enzyme levels decrease. This could allow acetaldehyde (AKA the bad toxin) to linger in your system longer, leading to those nasty hangover symptoms like nausea and headaches. Theory 2: Your body’s recovery process is weaker. A really fun (read: terrible) fact about aging is that it takes your body more time to recuperate from any sort of trauma, from a cold virus to a tough workout to, yes, drinking too much. “As one gets older metabolism changes; also neuroplasticity ― the ability of neuronal function to bounce back ― is thought to slow,” George F. Koob, director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, told The Huffington Post. This could also be due in part to your body’s ability to fight off inflammation or cell damage, Time Health explains: The National Institute on Aging refers to this as “immunosenescence,” or the gradual weakening of your immune system as you age. It’s not that your body doesn’t heal; in many cases, it just doesn’t heal quite as quickly, research suggests. Theory 3: Your lifestyle demands you to be functional. The more birthdays you log, the more responsibilities you seemingly add to your plate. Project proposals and kids’ playdates start to replace eating a bagel in your bed all day. Simply put: You don’t have time to nurse that hangover ― and that can make it a real pain. Theory 4: You’re taking medication that interferes with alcohol. More years on this earth means more time to get on medication. Chronic illnesses, mental health issues and other disorders that require pharmaceutical intervention can come later in life. And many meds don’t mix so well with those gin and tonics. Alcohol combined with antidepressants, blood pressure medication, diabetes therapy and even allergy medication can all have different effects on your system, some of them dangerous. It’s important to check with a doctor to see what you can and can’t take with alcohol. Theory 5: You’re trying to defy biology. Data suggests that those in their late twenties are basically trying to run away from aging. A survey conducted in the U.K. by Redemption, a company focused on promoting alcohol-free bars, found that people around the age of 29 were at the most risk for bad hangovers because they’re more likely to engage in the same alcohol habits as their younger years. And since you’re physiologically not the same as when you first became legal (see all the above), this may mean the day after drinking may be next-level nasty. And, in a very literal sense, your body composition plays a role on how you metabolize alcohol, too. If you’re gaining or losing weight as you age, that can factor into how you process the beverages, Science of Us reported. Simply put, your body just ― sadly ― isn’t used to a 21-year-old’s lifestyle anymore. But that’s okay! After all, a vodka soda is hardly a magical elixir when it comes to your health. In fact, here are a few ways your body changes when you cut back on drinking. Imbibe wisely, friends.
Twitter users have taken a video Rihanna posted for her Fenty Beauty product Body Lava and re-created it with laugh-out-loud results. To backtrack a little, Rihanna’s makeup line, Fenty Beauty, dropped a luminizer called Body Lava in March. The product gives skin a dewy shine and glow. In debuting the Body Lava, Rihanna posted a video on her social media pages of her squeezing some out on her shoulder and sexily buffing it out with a brush.
(CNN) The US admiral expected to become the country's next ambassador to South Korea says North Korea remains the most imminent threat to peace in the Pacific but China's "dream of hegemony" is Washington's biggest long-term challenge. Adm. Harry Harris spoke Wednesday as he turned over the reins of the US Pacific Command to Adm. Phil Davidson at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, in a ceremony that also announced the rebranding of US military assets in the region to the US Indo-Pacific Command. Harris, who has been at the helm of the most expansive US military command for three years, hammered home points he's made repeatedly during his term. Adm. Phil Davidson, left, relieves Adm. Harry Harris, right, as commander of US Indo-Pacific Command during a ceremony at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on Wednesday. "North Korea remains our most imminent threat and a nuclear-capable North Korea with missiles that can reach the United States is unacceptable," he said. However he added, "China remains our biggest long-term challenge. Without focused involvement and engagement by the United States and our allies and partners China will realize its dream of hegemony in Asia." Responding to Harris's comments Thursday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the admiral was "obsessed with hegemony" because he fears others are trying to steal it from the US. "The US military presence in the South China Sea far exceeds the total of China and other coastal countries," Hua said, calling US accusations of militarization "like a thief crying, 'Stop, thief!'" China's deployments and building programs in the South China Sea are part of its self-defense, Hua added. Harris spoke alongside US Secretary of Defense James Mattis, who stopped off in Hawaii on his way to Singapore for a high-profile security forum, where issues relating to the South China Sea and North Korea will be discussed. It is unclear what role Harris will play in talks with Pyongyang leading up to a hoped-for summit between US President Donald Trump and North Korea leader Kim Jong Un in Singapore on June 12. Harris' nomination went to the Senate on May 18 ahead of his expected confirmation. The admiral had been Trump's choice for to fill the vacant ambassador post in Australia, but that nomination was pulled hours before his confirmation hearing in April. Sources told CNN at the time that the move was the idea of Secretary of State Mike Pompeo , who has been instrumental in laying the groundwork for a Trump-Kim summit. While Harris has always been a hawk on North Korea during his term at Pacific Command, he has also issued warnings on China as Beijing has pursued a more muscular military posture in the Pacific and established a military presence on man-made islands in areas the US and its allies contend are international waters. Harris was still in charge of Pacific Command last week when it pulled an invitation for China to participate in the 2018 Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) military exercise, the world's largest international maritime warfare exercise. US officials said that decision was made after Beijing's recent deployment of missile systems and the first landing of a Chinese bomber on an island in the South China Sea Standing alongside Secretary of State Mike Pompeo at a news conference in Washington on May 23, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi called the US decision "unhelpful." "We find that a very unconstructive move ... It's unhelpful to mutual understanding between China and the US. We hope the US will change such a negative mindset," he said. In Hawaii Wednesday, Mattis said, "we should cooperate with Beijing where we can but stand ready to confront them where we must." Harris also warned his successors to keep an eye on Moscow, saying Russia is trying to act as "the spoiler" in the Indo-Pacific. "A geopolitical competition between free and repressive visions of world order is taking place in the Indo-Pacific," Harris said. "Great power competition is back and I believe we're approaching an inflection point in history.... Freedom and justice hang in the balance."
(CNN) We all use baby talk when we babble with bundles of joy, but does how we talk to infants vary across cultures? The answer seems to be yes and no. "Some cultures talk more or less to babies, some not at all," said Mark VanDam, assistant professor of speech and hearing sciences in the Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine at Washington State University. "Overall, however, the impulse and act of infant-directed speech seems to be pretty human, not necessarily culturally defined," he said. Here is a sampling of how moms and dads from around the world use infant-directed speech or "baby talk," and why. How baby talk might be consistent Mothers around the world consistently alter their voices when talking to their babies, no matter what language they speak, according to a study published in October in the journal Current Biology Parenting Without Borders considers how parenting trends and methods differ -- or don't -- around the world. Researchers recorded and analyzed the voices of 24 moms with a powerful machine-learning algorithm. Half of the women were English speakers, and the others spoke Spanish, Russian, Polish, Hungarian, German, French, Hebrew, Mandarin and Cantonese. Despite their native languages, the study showed, all of the women consistently shifted their timbre -- or the tone and sound of their voice -- when interacting with their infants. The researchers were surprised that this shift in sound was a consistent pattern across such a diverse range of languages, said Elise Piazza, associate research scholar at Princeton University and lead author of the study. "After we controlled for pitch, we still found timbre differences between infant-directed speech and adult-directed speech," Piazza said. Though some similarities have been seen in how mothers speak to babies, studies have also spotted some cultural differences among both moms and dads. How baby talk might differ A study published in February in the journal Child Development found that dads in North America tended to slow their speech when talking to infants, whereas dads in the Pacific island nation of Vanuatu did not. Rather, they tended to shift their pitch more. Researchers examined 30 interactions between the fathers and their infants, around 7.8 months old. More research is needed in a larger sample of fathers to determine that such differences do, indeed, exist in how these dads baby talk. "These are small samples," said Greg Bryant, a cognitive scientist at the University of California, Los Angeles. He conducted the study with Tanya Broesch, assistant professor in the department of psychology at Simon Fraser University "The bigger picture is that there are many ways that mothers and fathers can achieve the same communicative effect," he said. "What's universal is that parents often do change their voice when speaking to young children, but how they change exactly could vary across cultures." As for mothers, a study published last year in the journal PLOS One found a tendency for Lebanese mothers to use more infant-directed speech than American moms. The study involved 19 American and 19 Lebanese mothers. The researchers recorded audio of the American moms interacting with their infants in a lab and the Lebanese moms interacting with their infants at home. The key difference between the groups was that Lebanese moms had a higher rate in utterances per minute of baby talk than the American moms, the researchers found. Although other research groups have identified differences in baby talk across cultural contexts, this study was the first to report quantitatively on such language differences, the researchers wrote. Still, the study had some limitations. For instance, American moms were tested in a lab, but Lebanese mothers were tested at home, which could explain the differences. On the other hand, it turns out that how babies respond to their parents could vary by culture. How babies babble around the globe "Babies will often babble with their native sound-sequences," VanDam said. "For example, we don't have words in English that begin with 'tl,' such as 'tlick,' and English-speaking babies don't tend to babble that way," he said, but some Spanish words begin with "tl." "We also see sign language babies babbling in sign language, which is fairly strong evidence that it's more of a human trait than some language or culture specific trait," VanDam said. In other words, as kids develop, their babbling starts to reflect the speech patterns of their native language, Bryant said. suggested that infants start understanding words around 6 months old. A study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in Novembersuggested that infants start understanding words around 6 months old. "So mothers and fathers exaggerate vowel categories, for example, so they'll make vowel sounds a little more noticeable, and then that helps the infants acquire the vowel sounds of their language," he said. "Some people also think that exaggerated features in infant-directed speech help kids learn how to parse the syntax of spoken sentences, but that is a little more controversial," he said. The changes we tend to make in our voices -- such as exaggerated, repetitive and high-pitched baby talk -- could actually be useful for babies' learning, Piazza said. JUST WATCHED Baby Sign Language Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Baby Sign Language 02:55 "Previous experiments have shown that infants segment words and learn the meaning of novel words better from infant-directed than adult-directed speech," Piazza said. "It also seems to help parents capture babies' attention and engage them emotionally," she said. "Adults are generally motivated to engage infants, and they intuitively know that babies respond well to the exaggerated patterns in baby talk. Infant-directed speech is just one example of tailoring your communication style to a particular audience, which we do all the time." Why we use baby talk Some scientists argue that baby talk not only helps infants acquire language, it helps parents form a positive emotional bond with their babies, said Linda Polka, a professor in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders at McGill University in Canada. Other studies suggest that infants prefer high-pitched infant-directed speech and even infant-directed singing, Polka said. The reason for this preference remains complex, but research suggests that when adults shift the sound of their voices for "baby talk," that causes them to sound smaller -- as if their voice is coming from a smaller vocal tract, Polka said. "Our research shows that babies prefer to listen to speech coming from a smaller infant talker, but we don't know exactly why babies show this preference. Do they simply have a general 'smaller talkers are better' bias, or are they particularly sensitive to how big an infant is?" Polka said. In the future, "we could figure this out by assessing how they respond to speech sounds that come from a vocal tract that is too small to be an infant. Would they still like it, or would that be less interesting to them?" she said. Additionally, Polka said that whether you are talking to a baby or an adult, research suggests that there is a tendency to shift your speech to sound more like the person who you are interacting with. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "You are more likely to do that when you have a positive regard for the person you're interacting with," Polka said. "Adjusting our speech to sound smaller when we use baby talk may be a way to convey affect to the baby, by trying to sound like them," she said. "At the same time, it can also help them in terms of their own learning, because we're giving them a chance to listen to a voice that sounds more like them. We may be kind of priming them for their own voice, which is quite distinct from an adult voice."
For more on the year that changed America, watch CNN's Original Series Event " 1968 " on Sunday, May 27, and Monday, May 28, at 9 p.m. ET. David Axelrod is a CNN commentator and host of the podcast " The Axe Files ," now a regularly featured show on CNN. He was senior adviser to President Barack Obama and chief strategist for the 2008 and 2012 Obama campaigns. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) If I hadn't lived through 1968, I might dismiss a film recounting the explosive events of that year as some sort of fictional dystopia, a dark political thriller sprung from Hollywood's fertile imagination. But to a teenager inspired at the beginning of that decade by the soaring idealism of John F. Kennedy, the violent discord and cascading calamities of '68 felt like a nation coming apart, and the fractures it exposed still reverberate in our politics today. America began the '60s still largely bathed in the gauzy afterglow of World War II. By '68, we were riven by the battles over civil rights and a war in a distant land called Vietnam, to which the country had committed an astonishing half a million troops. A new generation challenged authority, from our own houses to the White House. A cultural revolution took full flower, its mantra: sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll. The gulf between races, between regions, between rural and urban communities, grew into seemingly unbridgeable chasms. And it all came to a violent, fractious head in 1968. It was the decade in which television became a truly pervasive presence in our lives, and I watched the main events of our national drama in '68 unfold on a bulky, black-and-white, rabbit-eared TV. It sat on a movable cart in the living room of my family's small rental apartment in New York City. I was a voracious follower of politics even then, and watched in stunned disbelief on March 31 when a beleaguered President Lyndon Johnson surprised the nation by announcing during a speech on the war that "I shall not seek, and I will not accept, the nomination of my party for another term as your president." Young people had driven LBJ from office. Grassroots defiance had created the opportunity for an end to the war and a new direction. Or so it seemed. I was home alone on April 4, when whatever I was watching when I was supposed to be doing my homework was interrupted by the bulletin that Martin Luther King Jr. had been shot and killed in Memphis. Beyond the sadness, I felt an ominous sense of dread. I got up and put the chain on our front door, as if to ward off the rage and violence I knew would follow. Later, I would see the footage of JFK's brother Bobby, now a candidate for president, share the news with a crowd in the inner city of Indianapolis that had gathered to hear him speak. His grim announcement elicited shouts of horror. Gently reminding them that he had lost a loved one to assassination, Bobby pleaded for calm and understanding, instead of hatred and violence. Indianapolis was one of the few cities that didn't erupt in violence that night. I was an earnest little foot soldier for Bobby; a tiny cog in a gathering movement for change. I admired his courage and idealism; his bluntness and willingness to tell hard truths, even to friendly audiences. I proudly sported my red and blue campaign button with RFK emblazoned in white; an emblem of challenge, hope and renewal. I stayed up late on June 4 to see if he would win the California primary, and when he made his victory remarks -- "and now it's on to Chicago, and let's win there" -- I went to sleep content in the belief that Bobby would claim the Democratic nomination and the presidency. The next morning, I woke up to the devastating news that RFK had been shot and was tenuously clinging to life. His death the following day was a gut punch. All the hope for change seemed to die with him. That black-and-white TV also framed the massive confrontation that followed two months later in Chicago. The dark pall of war and specter of the brooding president, effectively banished from his own Democratic Party convention, hung over the proceedings. My jaw dropped as police battered protesters on the streets and chaos reigned inside the International Amphitheatre, a cavernous arena near the old stockyards neighborhood on the city's south side. As a 9-year-old, I had met Sen. Abe Ribicoff of Connecticut through a family friend on a visit to Washington. So I watched in rapt attention when he rose to speak on behalf of the symbolic anti-war candidacy of a Senate colleague who four years later would become the party's standard-bearer. "And with George McGovern as President of the United States we wouldn't have to have Gestapo tactics in the streets of Chicago!" he said, causing Mayor Richard J. Daley and the Illinois delegation to rise in fist-pumping, epithet-spewing fury. The raucous convention doomed its nominee, Vice President Hubert Humphrey. Many young people walked away from Humphrey, once seen as a progressive champion, over his servile support for Johnson and the war. Only in the final days did I feel moved to hit the streets and leaflet for the Democratic ticket. (The world undoubtedly was awaiting my fateful decision.) But a late surge for Humphrey would fall short. George Wallace, the pugnacious, segregationist governor of Alabama, ran as a third-party candidate, hoping to tip the election into the House of Representatives, where he could leverage his weight behind a rollback of the landmark civil rights laws passed in '64 and '65. While he failed in that goal, Wallace would carry five Southern states and show surprising strength in white ethnic enclaves in northern cities. His racially tinged, "Stand Up for America" assault on Washington elites and liberals foreshadowed the rhetoric and appeals that would propel Donald Trump to the presidency nearly a half century later. "If a group of anarchists lay down in front of my automobile, it's gonna be the last one they ever gonna want to lay down in front of," Wallace gleefully exclaimed. Drafting off of Wallace and unrest in the country with more discreet, coded words, former Vice President Richard Nixon, the Republican nominee, promised "the silent majority" that he would restore "law and order" on America's streets. When Nixon's election became clear, I was glum but my mother wept. She remembered him as an unscrupulous campaigner and virulent red baiter. "He's evil," she said. "You'll see." Six years later, Nixon would resign the presidency as a result of the Watergate scandal, an attempt by his White House and campaign to subvert our democratic election process and the conspiracy he led to cover up the crime.
(CNN) Here's a look at the life of Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. Personal: Birth date: September 14, 1965 Birth place: Leningrad, U.S.S.R. (now St. Petersburg, Russia) Birth name: Dmitry Anatolyvich Medvedev Father: Anatoly Medvedev, a chemistry professor Mother: Yulia Medvedev, professor of Russian and tour guide Marriage: Svetlana (Linnik) Medvedeva (1989-present) Children: Ilya Education: Leningrad State University, law degree, 1987; Leningrad State University, Ph.D. in law, 1990 Religion: Russian Orthodox Other Facts: Grew up listening to black-market copies of seventies rock bands like Led Zeppelin and Deep Purple. During college worked in construction and as a street cleaner. Timeline: 1990-1999 - Teaches law at Leningrad State/St. Petersburg State University. 1990-1999 - Private law practice. 1991-1995 - Works as a legal consultant to the St. Petersburg office of external affairs. The office is headed by Works as a legal consultant to the St. Petersburg office of external affairs. The office is headed by Vladimir Putin 1999 - Deputy Chief of Staff for Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. 2000 - Runs Putin's election campaign. 2000-2001 and 2002-2008 - Chairman of Gazprom, a state-run natural gas monopoly. 2003-2005 - President Putin's chief of staff. 2005-2008 - First Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation. December 10, 2007 - Putin endorses Medvedev's nomination as the United Russia Party's candidate for the 2008 presidential elections. December 11, 2007 - Says he will name Putin as his prime minister if elected. March 2, 2008 - Is elected president of Russia with an estimated 70 percent of the vote. May 7, 2008 - Is sworn in as president of Russia in a ceremony held at the Kremlin. August 26, 2008 - Recognizes the independence claims of two breakaway Georgian regions. November 14, 2008 - Medvedev backs away from prior threat of deploying short-range missiles. April 1, 2009 - Medvedev and Medvedev and US President Barack Obama announce that their countries will soon begin negotiations on reducing their nuclear arsenals, according to a joint statement from the two leaders. April 8, 2010 - Medvedev and Obama sign a new nuclear arms treaty (START), cutting Medvedev and Obama sign a new nuclear arms treaty (START), cutting nuclear warheads held by each country to 1,550. August 24, 2011 - Meets with Meets with North Korean leader Kim Jong Il in eastern Siberia to discuss nuclear issues, trade and a proposed natural gas pipeline. September 24, 2011 - Calls on the ruling party, United Russia, to endorse Prime Minister Vladimir Putin for president in 2012. Putin in turn suggests that Medvedev should take over the role of prime minister if the party wins parliamentary elections in December. May 6, 2012 - Putin is sworn in as president and one of his first acts is to name Medvedev Putin is sworn in as president and one of his first acts is to name Medvedev prime minister May 8, 2012 - Medvedev is approved by the Duma to be the new prime minister. August 2, 2017 - Following the signing of Following the signing of new US sanctions against Russia , Medvedev says any hope of improved relations between Washington and the Kremlin have "ended." May 7, 2018 - Putin nominates Medvedev to remain in place as prime minister.
Update: Softbank CEO Masayoshi Son has now confirmed that Walmart is buying controlling stakes of India e-commerce company Flipkart. Economic Times quoted Masayoshi Son saying, "Last night, (they) reached a final agreement and it was decided that Flipkart will be sold to America's Walmart." Reports suggest that Softbank, that owned 20% stake in Flipkart, will sell all of it to Walmart. In a huge merger, US retail giant Walmart Inc has signed a deal to acquire 73% of controlling stakes of Indian e-retail company Flipkart -- a deal that will likely prompt the exit of Flipkart's co-founder Sachin Bansal -- said reports last Thursday. Factor Daily reported sources as saying that Walmart, that had put Flipkart's value at at least $22 billion, will be spending at least $14.6 billion in the acquisition. The factor daily report quoted sources a saying, "Cash component will be close to 55%, which will mark the exit of some of the largest investors in Flipkart." While the deal has not been formally announced, another report indicating the merger said that Flipkart had bought bought back $350 million worth of shares from its investors ahead of the deal with Reuters quoted a lawyer as saying, "Typically strategic investors don't like to deal with multiple shareholders because it just becomes more cumbersome. So they very often ask companies to clean up the cap table or consolidate small shareholders." While CEO of Flipkart Kalyan Krishnamurthy will reportedly continue in his position, reports also said that co-founder Sachin Bansal may quit. Economic Times reported sources as saying there have been talks of Bansal leaving for the last couple of says and a decision will come through. The newspaper report that Walmart wants Group CEO Binny Bansal and Krishnamurthy to have more crucial rules in the company. These developments came close on the heels of Amazon making a formal offer to buy 60% of Flipkart, in competition with Walmart's bid to get majority ownership of the company. Amazon is Flipkart's major rival in the Indian e-commerce market. With Walmart buying Flipkart, Amazon will be in competition now with Walmart in India. The companies are each other's rivals in the US as well. Editor's Note: This article has been modified to reflect the latest update on Walmart buying majority share in Flipkart. It was first published on Thursday, May 4, 2018.
(CNN) Belgian authorities are investigating the killing of two policewomen and a passerby in the eastern city of Liege on Tuesday as a terror attack, the country's prosecutor said. Belgian media, including CNN affiliate RTBF , are naming the gunman as Benjamin Herman. A spokesperson for the Brussels prosecutor told CNN the attacker, who was shot dead by police, was 31 years old and had the initials B.H. but declined to provide the full name. RTBF reported that Herman was let out of prison on temporary release on Monday. He had been serving time on drug offenses. It said he may have been radicalized while in jail. The incident occurred around 10:30 a.m., when the assailant stabbed two policewomen from behind before stealing their service weapons and using them on the officers, Liege Prosecutor Philippe Dulieu said at a news conference on Tuesday. After killing the two officers, the attacker continued walking through the street and opened fire on a parked vehicle, fatally wounding the driver inside, Dulieu said. According to the prosecutor, the suspect then took refuge in a local high school, where he held a woman hostage. When police intervened, the man opened fire, injuring several other officers, before he was shot dead. "It is clear that the objective of the assassin was to target the police," the head of Liege Police, Christian Beaupere, said later Tuesday. Beaupere said he wanted to reassure parents that the gunman did not plan to attack a school. "His objective was not to kill in a school but to harm the police, the institutions and the state of Belgium." He refused to comment further on the investigation, saying the case is now with the Belgian prosecutor's office. It is not yet clear precisely what the attacker's motive may have been, a spokesperson from the Liege prosecutor's office told CNN earlier. Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel said he and the government send their thoughts to the victims and their families. The Belgian Royal Palace also tweeted its sympathies after the shooting. "Our thoughts are with the victims of this horrible act. Courage to their loved ones," the tweet read. Michel and King Philippe of Belgium arrived in Liege later Tuesday. Belgian Interior Minister Jan Jambon said on Twitter that the country's crisis center had been monitoring the situation. The crisis center said the students in the school were safe and that none had been injured. A police officer speaks with parents of children at a nearby high school. Liege resident Didier Deflem filmed a video allegedly showing special intervention police units shooting at the Liege attacker in front of the Waha high school. Deflem said: "Police made us enter the building to protect us. The PAB (Peloton anti-banditisme, a special intervention unit of the city of Liege) intervened. The man wanted to run out and he was shot down. That's all I saw. We're still in shock." Pierre Etienne Dit Pave, who teaches French language classes nearby,said he was first alerted to the attack by a "commotion in the street" and went out to investigate. "At one point a policeman told me to go inside. I went back to the classroom and locked the door for a while," he said. "We heard a lot of shots. We didn't see anything because we were locked in the room. We were waiting for police to give us the clearing." In this grab made from a video obtained on the Twitter account of Victor Jay (@victorj_fr), police and emergency vehicles block a nearby crossroads. Liege is Belgium's third-largest city, after Brussels and Antwerp, according to the national tourist office. For centuries, it has been an important cultural and industrial center for the country. In 2011, Liege was the scene of a grenade and gun attack that left at least five dead and injured more than 100. This story has been updated to correct the gender of the police officers who were killed.
Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella can brag to Bill Gates that the company's stock price has never been higher during Microsoft's 32-year history as a public company than it is now. And Microsoft's market value just passed rival Google's too. Shares of Microsoft (MSFT) rose nearly 1% Wednesday and are now up more than 15% this year. The company is worth $760 billion, more than Google (GOOGL) owner Alphabet's market cap of $745 billion. Microsoft now trails fellow Washington state native Amazon (AMZN) by about $30 billion for second place in the market value race. Apple (AAPL), the world's most valuable company, is worth about $920 billion. Apple lost some ground Wednesday though. It was one of only two stocks in the Dow that were lower Wednesday afternoon. GE (GE) was the other. But times have never been better for Microsoft, because of Nadella's strategy to focus the company more on cloud computing after former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer stepped down in 2014. Related: Two of the world's biggest brands are now Chinese Business is booming for the Office 365 software suite and the Azure hosting business. Microsoft's sales and profits are expected to grow at a rate of more than 10% for the next few years, impressive for a company of Microsoft's size. In addition to the push to cloud versions for Office and other popular Microsoft business software, Nadella also has made a big investment in social media with the $26 billion deal for LinkedIn in 2016. Related: Next stop for Microsoft -- $1 trillion? These are some of the reasons why Wall Street has fallen in love with Microsoft again. In fact, analysts at both Morgan Stanley and Evercore ISI said in recent months that they think Microsoft's market value may soon top $1 trillion. That's more than 30% higher than the company's current market cap.
Story highlights Contrary to what Sean Spicer said, Axelrod says he and Robert Gibbs did not regularly attend the most sensitive National Security Council meetings Axelrod: Former Breitbart chief Steve Bannon will exercise authority no political adviser has had before David Axelrod is CNN's senior political commentator and host of the podcast "The Axe Files." He was senior adviser to President Barack Obama and chief strategist for the 2008 and 2012 Obama campaigns. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) I woke up this morning as an Alternative Fact. In justifying the appointment of Steve Bannon, the president's chief strategist, to the National Security Council, Trump spokesman Sean Spicer cited my role in the Obama White House as a precedent. Spicer said press secretary Robert Gibbs and I attended classified National Security Council meetings "all the time." That is simply not true. As a senior adviser to President Obama in 2009, I had the opportunity to witness the fateful deliberations of his National Security Council Principals committee over the strategy the U.S would pursue in the war with Al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan. I was not a member of the committee. I did not speak or participate. I sat on the sidelines as a silent observer with Gibbs because we would be called upon to publicly discuss the president's decision on that critical matter and the process by which he arrived at it. Read More
(CNN) Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov met with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un during a trip to Pyongyang Thursday, as Moscow steps up efforts to increase its influence in the region ahead of proposed talks between Kim and US President Donald Trump. Speaking to reporters after meeting with his North Korean counterpart Ri Yong Ho, Lavrov called for the phased lifting of sanctions on North Korea, suggesting that denuclearization would only be achievable if sanctions were scaled back. "As we start discussions on how to resolve the nuclear problem on the Korean Peninsula, it is understood that the solution cannot be comprehensive without the lifting of sanctions," Lavrov said according to state news agency Sputnik. 🇷🇺🇰🇵Sergey #Lavrov was greeted by the Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of DPRK Kim Jong-un during his visit to Pyongyang pic.twitter.com/kjixCrCZ4t Lavrov's comments are likely to be met with frustration in Washington, where efforts are underway to convince North Korea to begin the process of nuclear disarmament ahead of the on-again off-again summit, tentatively scheduled for June 12. The Trump administration has long maintained that the lifting of sanctions is dependent on the North's willingness to begin the process of full denuclearization. The success of the policy, known as the " maximum pressure campaign " remains dependent on the support of the international community, including Russia. On Wednesday, Senior North Korean official Kim Yong Chol met with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in New York, their third meeting this year, as the two sides attempt to finalize their summit preconditions. Lavrov said he welcomed increasing contact between North Korea, South Korea and the United States and added that Russia had a "common understanding with the North Korean side about the need to take the utmost care about what is happening now in terms of establishing contacts, normalizing relations between the two Koreas, between the DPRK and the United States, and avoiding the temptation to demand 'everything at once.'" However he cautioned against making "sudden moves, to artificially speed the process, which requires a considerable amount of time and a more detailed alignment of all components of the package." Asked if he was concerned that Trump or the next US president might renege on a deal, Lavrov said: "I am sure that the North Korean side knows perfectly well the history of recent years and, of course, will determine its position taking into account all factors." Old allies On Thursday during his visit to Pyongyang, Lavrov laid a floral tribute before the statues of President Kim Il Sung and leader Kim Jong Il. The long-time Russian foreign minister has been to the North Korean capital before, including in 2009 during an earlier round of negotiations on North Korean disarmament. It's not known whether Lavrov's meeting with Kim Jong Un was planned prior to his latest visit. During their encounter, Lavrov invited Kim to visit Moscow. "Come to Russia, we'll be happy to have you," Lavrov told Kim, according to Russian state media. The entry of Russia into the fray surrounding North Korea comes amid a flurry of international diplomatic activity, as regional powers look to build alliances ahead of the possible June 12 Trump-Kim summit. Earlier this month, Kim Jong Un traveled to the northeastern Chinese city of Dalian to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping, the second meeting between the two leaders since March. However despite the fact that Russia and North Korea nations established relations 70 years ago, the shadow once cast by Russia has lessened in North Korea as Moscow's global influence has waned and its own economy has been shaken by international sanctions. "Russia has far less influence or leverage with North Korea than China does, and that's not because of the military stuff, it's purely because of money," said Bruce Bechtol, a professor of political science at Angelo State University who has authored several books on North Korea. He said Russia is the only country other than China that presents a "semblance of being an ally" to the isolated regime. "During the Cold War, Russia subsidized everything in North Korea. North Korea was not a poor country, it was simply a subsidized member of what we can now call the Soviet Union's satellite states," he told CNN. That all ended in 1991, said Bechtol, when the Berlin Wall came down, communism in the Soviet Union and its member states collapsed, and Russia opened its economic doors to the West.
(CNN) They're not slumped over in alleyways with used needles by their sides. Their dignity, at least from outside appearances, remains intact. They haven't lost everything while chasing an insatiable high. They are functioning heroin addicts -- people who hold down jobs, pay the bills and fool their families. For some, addiction is genetic; they're wired this way. For others, chronic pain and lack of legal opioids landed them here. Or experimentation got them hooked and changed everything. What addicts have in common, according to experts, is a disease that has more to do with their brains than the substances they use. About 85% of people can take a pain pill, for example, and never crave it again. This is a story about the others, those traveling the dangerous road of functional addiction. What works for them now, experts explain, can easily and lethally be derailed. Hanging in the balance are people you may never imagine: peers, co-workers and neighbors. Loved ones, bosses and teachers. Respected members of your community who, for the benefit of everyone's understanding, want to be heard. After CNN gave voice last fall to addicts on skid row , the sorts we think of when we picture "heroin addict," I set out to tell this overlooked part of the heroin story. Being a functioning addict hinges on heroin use staying hush-hush, so we agreed to change the names of those willing to open up. 'All smiles and happiness at work' Loving and successful parents, good schools, a great upbringing in the Midwest: Todd can't point to anything that drove him to drugs. He was a typical suburban high school student who dabbled in weed. Then, at 15, he popped a Percocet his mother left lying around while she was recovering from surgery. "The feeling in my head was, 'I want to feel like this for the rest of my life,' " Todd says. "It was the perfect drug for me." The 11 years since have been a dance with opioid addiction, even as he graduated from college and embarked on a successful career in corporate management. Now 26, he has gone stretches where he's been sober, but the pull is strong and keeps yanking him back. He's done heroin for periods of time and says it's "fantastic," but shooting up isn't his style. His preference, assuming he can find them, is to buy more expensive opioids. For a long time, OxyContin was his drug of choice; now he prefers Opana and, if he can't get that, Subutex. He makes good money, which means he can afford his $350- to $600-a-week habit. He's figured out how much to take so he doesn't feel the pains of withdrawal, which is now his goal -- rather than getting a full-on high. His sweet spot: 60 milligrams of Opana. "I don't know how to describe withdrawal. It's like the worst flu you've ever had in your life -- and then multiply that by 1,000," he says. "There's a scraping inside your brain. You're willing to do anything to feel better." To avoid that hell, Todd often lives a lie. He's "all smiles and happiness at work," he says, and he spins tales to guard his secret. He might say he's in one city when he's really in another. That quick trip he says he's taking to McDonald's could be to meet his dealer at Burger King. When he's used heroin, he's explained the bruises on his arm by telling people he has diabetes or an infectious disease. He once told a pharmacist he was a science teacher in need of syringes for experiments. He's invented the deaths of family members to get days off. But death is very much a reality in his life. His last serious girlfriend also used drugs and died from an overdose. Over the past six years, he's lost seven people he cares about to addiction. He'd like to find love, build a relationship and have a family but says, "It would be dishonest, and I never want to hurt anybody. That's the biggest problem." He knows that he has a lot to live for, but he often forgets that and struggles to imagine a future. And because he can't stray far from his dealer, a dream he does have remains on hold indefinitely. "I've always wanted to see the world," he says. "I've never been outside the country because I can't leave. I'm f***ing chained where I'm at. It's a f***ing prison." The sign of an addict The sensation Todd had the first time he popped a Percocet, that feeling he wanted to hold onto for the rest of his life, was the giveaway. He, like 10% or 15% of people, has the disease of addiction, explains Dr. Stuart Gitlow, past president of the American Society of Addiction Medicine What offers no special high for most people or may even make them feel queasy became Todd's aspiration. And part of the problem, says Gitlow, is that "you don't know in advance what person you're going to be." Todd may be functioning now, but Gitlow warns that tolerances and doses often change. As an addictive disease progresses, it is also influenced by life events and stressors. What happens if Todd loses his job someday or can't afford his preferred pills? "They all start out functioning," he says. "The bulk of people taking heroin are probably functioning. It's only in the end stage that they're nodding off in an alley and have a pretty good shot of dying." What Todd needs, Gitlow says, is help from a doctor who is certified in addiction medicine and can treat his disease. The vast majority, or 80%, of those who seek appropriate treatment and adhere to their treatment recommendations do well, he says. Not a unique story It didn't start with a pill for Lisa. Her first addiction took hold at 12, when she began cutting herself. Carving into her flesh released dopamine in her brain, giving her a high, she says. The first time she did it, she never anticipated a rush. She was overwhelmed emotionally and simply acting out. But cutting became her way to self-medicate because it offered her solace, easing the emotional pain of living in a household full of screaming. Now, at 23, Lisa opts for heroin. And because of it and other opioids she's used, "I hurt myself a lot less." The difference now is that she, like Todd, no longer seeks a high. When she shoots up each morning, she insists, "I just do enough to stay well" through the day and not feel physical pain. She works hard, always has. She excelled in her college-prep private school, where she was dubbed "gifted and talented," she says. She takes her job as a store manager seriously and enjoys a supportive marriage. No one at work knows that her day begins with a call to her dealer. If she has track marks, a simple long-sleeved shirt hides the evidence. How she found heroin, she says, is not unique. Long plagued by tendonitis in her knees and two herniated discs in her back, Lisa tried everything. Steroid injections gave her migraines, and her stomach couldn't handle anti-inflammatories. Physical and aquatic therapies offered little relief, as did deep-tissue massage. Finally, four years ago, a physician wrote out a prescription for pain pills. She found comfort in those legal opioids. But then came the crackdown on opioid prescriptions, she says, effectively ending her lawful pain management. Once her pills ran out, she turned to buying them on the street. They were hard to find, though, and the cost became prohibitive. An old friend, a heroin user, suggested that she give his drug a try. "I can't find pills, I'm in pain, and it's really cheap," she remembers telling herself. "What happened to me is what happened to thousands and thousands of people." Where she lives in Texas, near the Mexican border, the price of heroin can't be beat. One pill might cost her $50, but she can get half a gram of heroin, which is far more potent, for $20. The same product, she says, would cost up to five times as much in other parts of the country. "If I moved somewhere where it was $100," she says, "I'd quit." Her husband doesn't do drugs. He barely drinks. And although he'd prefer she kick the habit altogether, he's committed to being by her side -- so much that he keeps Narcan, the overdose antidote drug, in their home and has watched training videos to learn how to administer it in case she overdoses. "He loves me enough that he's willing to stay with me," Lisa says. "That's a key component to keeping me from going off the deep end." Lisa says a small handful of friends know that she uses heroin. Everyone else, her family included, believes she's hooked on "just pills." It's easier that way. Pills and other vices don't come with the same sort of judgment. "People drink, and we think nothing of it. You do heroin, and you're the scum of the earth," she says. "People will cut you out of their lives." Everybody's problem Heroin users weren't always "the scum of the earth." In the late 19th century, it was a trademark name for an over-the-counter drug made by Bayer. Today, there are politics behind which drugs are demonized and which aren't, and much of that is rooted in racism, says Dr. Michael Miller, who preceded Gitlow as president of the American Society of Addiction Medicine. White socialites snorting cocaine in an Aspen ski lodge are forgiven, while inner-city blacks smoking crack -- just another form of cocaine -- are vilified and locked away, Miller explains. Heroin was romanticized when musicians used it, he says, but after black kids in coastal cities got hold of it, the perception changed and stuck. Now, with the explosion of the opioid epidemic and the emergence of heroin as a less expensive alternative, it's become everybody's problem -- white or black, rich or poor, on the coasts or in middle America, no matter whether you live in a city, suburb or rural community. That's how Lisa got roped in and learned to keep a secret. She admits that the management of her addiction hinges in large part on her husband being by her side. But what if he leaves? What if life tosses her another kind of doozy? How much heroin would she need to ease her pain then? "She has no coping skills. She's right at the edge," Gitlow says. "What if her dealer gets arrested and her new dealer mixes in fentanyl? Boom. She's dead." 'Like downing a beer' Not everyone I spoke to considers themselves addicts. Enter Matthew. For as long as Matthew can remember, he's battled anxiety and depression. Beyond prescriptions like Xanax or Valium, he began self-medicating at 19 with marijuana and LSD, he says. An arrest for possession of pot and LSD with intent to distribute landed him on probation. Facing regular drug tests that would detect cannabis, he turned to harder drugs that wouldn't stay in his urine as long. That's how Matthew, 28, first tried oxycodone. Later, a doctor would prescribe opioids for chronic stomach pain, a condition he's had for six years. It's the sort of pain, he says, that used to leave him racing to bathrooms so frequently, he couldn't keep a job. Multiple GI doctors have tried to help him. Only prescribed opioids and marijuana have offered relief. Raised in the Eastern US, he now lives in rural Northern California and works as a consultant in the cannabis industry. He doesn't hide his marijuana use or his dependence on pain medications. It's the powdered heroin he purchases on the dark net, the stuff he snorts in the bathroom a few times a day, that he keeps to himself. He says he uses it only when his prescriptions or insurance coverage lapse. He's never used heroin intravenously. Having gone back and forth between pharmaceuticals and illegal supplies, he says he's able to use a milligram scale to carefully measure how much of the powder to take. "It's similar to a dose of Percocet." he says. "The effect would be like downing a beer or a cocktail." He doesn't use a lot and says he snorts only about $5 of heroin a day. He's stopped in spurts and has written down pro and con lists to see whether he can move on. The pros keep winning out. "I just don't find sober me is the best me," he says. Having a secret can be isolating, he says, but otherwise, heroin has not hindered his life. Rather, Matthew says, "It's changed my life for the better." Not only does it help with the pain, he says, it constipates him, allowing him to ditch the bathroom and get out of the house. "I'm dependent," he says. "But I wouldn't necessarily call myself an addict." The crippling truth Matthew is kidding himself, experts say. "Denial is a crippling component of addictive disease," Gitlow said. "Here we have a well-documented illustration of that deadly component." Starting at 19, the signs were there when Matthew turned to drugs rather than "conventional coping mechanisms," Gitlow explains. Someone without the addictive disease might have tried those drugs for temporary relief but then realized they weren't worth the long-term risk. Matthew's belief that he doesn't have a problem, Gitlow says, is no different from a man with hypertension or diabetes pretending there's nothing wrong with him. Plus, using heroin and other opioids changes brain chemistry, says Siobhan Morse, director of clinical services for the Foundations Recovery Network. The natural way a body manages pain or stress, Morse says, is by producing endorphins. "If you're giving it the artificial substance," she explains, the brain thinks it doesn't have to make the real thing. "So when you take away the artificial substance, everything is so painful." And for people like Matthew who have coexisting mental health issues such as anxiety or depression, self-medication with opioids can make those matters worse, Morse adds. She describes the combination as a "moving target." Eventually, she and other experts say, Matthew's drug use will catch up with him. "I've never met anyone who's indefinitely held it down being a heroin addict," Morse says. The fall of 'Superwoman' Rebecca has been using for more than three decades -- longer than Matthew, Todd and Lisa combined. She is surprised to still be alive. She grew up in an upper-middle-class household in a tony suburb in the South where she was raised more by the housekeeper than her parents. Her mother was checked out; her father had mistresses and often traveled. "I didn't have any boundaries," says Rebecca, 59. "I could do whatever I wanted, which was a recipe for disaster." Starting at 12, she tried every narcotic she could find. At 15, the man who was her drug dealer and boyfriend introduced her to heroin. "I was in love," she says of the drug. "It became the love of my life." One day, she was sleeping on the couch in her family's home when an older sister pinned her down, rolled up one of her sleeves and called out her track marks. "Mom didn't bat an eye," Rebecca remembers. Instead, she shrugged it off, saying, "Jewish people aren't addicts." Her father, when he was around, was more a friend than a parent. He partied with Rebecca and gave her Quaaludes, she says. Rebecca eventually married the drug dealer-boyfriend, and they had a daughter. But the marriage was short-lived. Divorced and 24, Rebecca went into treatment after her daughter turned 3. Rebecca knew that she was unfit to be a parent and feared she'd lose her daughter forever. It was the first of some 20 times she'd check into a treatment facility for help. Along the way, she re-married; husband No. 2 died of a heroin overdose. Rebecca met her third husband in treatment and stayed sober for eight years. They had two more children and a comfortable lifestyle, enjoying the sort of privileges she knew growing up. But when this marriage fell apart, so did she. "That was when I started to spiral down," Rebecca says. "As soon as I started using, it was immediate. ... It was like I never stopped using." Even as Rebecca returned to heroin, spending $100 or more a day, she built a career in corporate travel, working for big-name companies. "As long as I didn't run out [of heroin] and get sick, I was like Superwoman," she says of her job performance. "If I had come in and said I was a heroin addict, people would have laughed." Years of use caught up with her. Lunchtime runs to see her dealer grew longer and became lies about flat tires or broken-down cars. She bounced around between five or six companies, taking extended leaves to go into treatment or try to detox at home. She kept overdosing. A $30,000 mistake at work got her fired. "People kept saying, 'You're going to die,' " Rebecca says. "The problem with me wasn't that I was going to die, it's that I was going to live." Her kids were mostly raised by other family members and knew her at her worst. They'd see her after overdoses and visit her in the "nasty places" she called home. "It was just awful," says Rebecca, who's still working to repair the relationships she frayed. Today, Rebecca is three years sober. The last time she entered treatment, she says, "something clicked, and I remember thinking, 'I can't do this anymore.' " She was "sick and tired of being sick and tired," she says. "I didn't have it in me anymore to keep doing what it took to stay high." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Rebecca is not the only member of her family who's struggled. One relative is an alcoholic, another is also a heroin addict, and a third -- who won't touch heroin because of Rebecca -- is hooked on pain pills. "It's in the genes," Rebecca says. "No doubt." She has seven grandchildren and is determined to be a better grandmother than she was a parent. She lives with a friend in an apartment and works part time for a sober living community. "If there's any regret, it's that I've missed decades," Rebecca says. "I just thought I wasn't going to live, so I never worried about getting old." She is fighting to make the rest of her life matter, all the while knowing -- based on decades of experience -- how easily she could slip again. One lapse, one moment of weakness or overconfidence that she can handle it, and everything Rebecca is building up could come crashing down and, quite possibly, bury her.
Josh Campbell is a CNN Law Enforcement Analyst, providing insight on crime, justice and national security issues. He previously served as a supervisory special agent with the FBI, and worked on an FBI team responsible for investigating terrorist attacks and kidnappings overseas. Follow him on Twitter at @joshscampbell. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) The first thing I noticed upon entering the room were the boxes of tissues strategically placed under dozens of chairs arranged for the mourners. It was December 2015 in San Bernardino, California, and the room would soon fill with heartbroken families who were to receive a briefing on the details surrounding the terrorist attack that had just claimed the lives of their loved ones. It was a somber scene similar to those that would soon play out in the aftermath of tragedies in Orlando, Las Vegas, Parkland, and most recently in Santa Fe, Texas , this month. Although the main speakers were law enforcement officials leading the investigation, navigating the room that day were a group of frequently unseen heroes: the victim specialists whose sole mission is to advocate for and comfort those impacted by crime . It is this group that has the solemn task of caring for the needs of victims and their families long after major tragedies recede from the headlines. Once the briefing had concluded that day in San Bernardino, those who wished to visit and reflect outside the building where the tragedy had taken place were escorted by police motorcade to the crime scene. After the lead FBI forensics agent on the case sympathetically outlined how the attack had unfolded, a bereaved man turned to the victim advocate standing next to me and asked if she would place a memento on the location where his loved one had died, which was roped off to the families. The victim advocate agreed, and, returning past the police tape, embraced the man, providing a shoulder to cry on for what seemed like an eternity. Read More
Bobbi Young holds a photo of her mother, Marilyn Young, the day after she passed away at home in Carmel Valley, California. (CNN) I scanned my mother's bed, pulled back the rumpled sheets and uncovered her shivering naked body. I stared at her bruised inner thighs, her sheets wet with urine and blood, her catheter pulled completely out of her. I covered her with a blanket and held her close as she pleaded, "Get me out of here." I kissed her forehead, our tears mixing, and promised no one was going to stop me. She would not spend another night in this nursing home. I pushed the call button. No response. I followed the cord to the wall and found it disconnected. My heart racing, I tracked down an aide and demanded that a nurse come to my mother's room immediately. At 88, she was examined with nonchalance and covered back up. I called the manager to her room and told her I was taking Mom home. The nursing staff gathered in force, attempting to convince me that her release was a long process, that my mother could still benefit from their help. Her stay in the nursing home had been a temporary transition needed after being hospitalized with a stroke. But I knew my mother had been harmed. I feared the worse. And I feared for her life if she stayed there. I called her doctor to sign a release form, and I phoned a service for private medical transport. I also called my husband and said, "I need to bring Mom home with us today. Go get Daddy." At the front door of the nursing home, the management staff lined up to wish us well. They invited us to come back and visit. "Thank you," I told them, "but we will never drive by this road again." When we arrived home, the driver unloaded my bundled mother and the rain momentarily stopped. I looked up and saw my father, his hand pressed to the window, tears in his eyes and mouthing the words "Mama ... Mama's home." Married 69 years, my parents experienced every second apart as an eternity. Once settled in their own bed, Daddy curled up next to Mother, held her hand, prayed with her, assured her she was OK now, home safe. She was still recovering from her stroke, and even though my father sensed some harm had come to her, he didn't ask. He didn't want to stress her more. He never left her side. Medical equipment, photos of happier times and leftover Christmas decorations fill Marilyn Young's bedroom. Over the weeks that followed, my mother complained of pain in her groin area. Doctors increased the doses of pain medication, but she still awoke in anguish, day after day. I finally had to examine her -- and my heart sank. I knew she needed to be seen by her gynecologist as soon as possible. A nurse practitioner examined my mother and ran tests to confirm her suspicions: a sexually transmitted disease. Had my mother shown these symptoms before, she asked. The answer was no. Had my mother had any sexual partners besides my father in her lifetime? The answer was no. When I told her about what had happened in the nursing home, the nurse said my father would need to be tested for the disease. My mother was visibly shaken. I asked the nurse, if my father was negative, what would be the next step? She said, you need to call the California Department of Public Health and file a report. We drove home silently. My mind struggled with how much my mother had been through; now we were minutes away from devastating my father. I asked if she wanted my help in telling Daddy. The answer was yes. As I spoke, Daddy didn't hesitate to agree to be tested. Then he asked what all of this meant. What would proving he was negative for the disease mean? Mama, her voice choked with sadness, replied: "I was raped." My father held my mother, crying, shaking his head in disbelief and apologizing for not being able to keep her safe. I grew up believing my parents were strong and took comfort trusting I would always be safe. They both worked two or three jobs throughout my childhood to buy me and my siblings encyclopedias to enhance our knowledge of the world long before Google existed. Witnessing this wound inflicted on my parents cut deeply to the core of my own foundation. The hospital had recommended the nursing home as a transitional step; her own internist was the director of the facility: What could possibly go wrong? There were no warning flags. We failed to protect her against something we could not even imagine existed. A distress signal is only as good as the person who sees it. When I saw it, I took action. But it was too late. For months, my parents comforted each other, not wanting to be even a foot apart. Their love never wavered; it only deepened. I would walk past their bedroom and see them snuggled tightly together, whispering. My father later told me they were praying and planning to renew their wedding vows on their 70th anniversary. Beyond the harm the perpetrator had inflicted on my mother, he took a toll on my father's remaining strength and stole some of the precious time my parents had left. Still, together they decided to fight for reform, which my husband and I fully supported. We filed a civil lawsuit against the facility, arguing that more should have been done to protect my mother. She was brave enough to appear at the center of a public service video created by a nonprofit calling for nursing home reform. After taking her mother into her own home, Bobbi Young cared for her until Marilyn passed away in January. Two months before my father passed away at 95, he told my mother his time was near and asked my husband and I to help them renew their vows early. They exchanged their promises tearfully and glowed with renewed divinity. He did not live long enough to see my mother receive a settlement in her case against the nursing home. On the day my father died, my husband was diagnosed with terminal cancer. His painful journey ended 17 months later. But our commitment to choose love and joy enabled Mother and I to embrace our faith and carry on. I promised my husband I would not be sad or bitter. I had promised my father I would care for Mama and keep her safe. I feared that I would not be able to fulfill those promises. But there are moments in life that transcend fear. They mend twisted hearts. This became one of those moments. After my husband's funeral, all of my mother's nurturing traits intensified. I had promised to care for her, and now she was providing me with what felt like a second childhood. She took the reins, suggesting remedies such as extra locks on doors and an alarm system to quiet our fears. She reminded me of recipes to help stretch our dollars to survive -- such as making "imagination cookies." When I looked sad, she would talk about funny things my husband did to make her laugh. We prayed together, planned our spring garden, went for drives on hot days with the windows down, hair blowing in the wind, laughing with memories. I promised my mother I would honor her vow to carry on her courageous battle for justice all the days of my life by telling her story. While her perpetrator will likely never be found, it was one of her last wishes for people to understand that no one is too old to become a victim of rape. My mother died in January. She was 94. As I walk around my home now, I look at the empty rocking chair in which she soothed her children. I can feel her brushing my long hair. The seedlings she planted in eggshells on Christmas Day are bursting toward spring. I can hear her laughter and her reminder to me: "The gifts God gave you, he did not give to another; respect them and share them wisely. ..." Who was this woman in my life? Why was she made to suffer so? An answer fills my sorrowful heart: Suffering can carve two types of people, monsters and angels. I am fortunate to have been raised by angels. And I pray to one day be worthy of that divine fabric that still holds me tightly together -- love. Editor's note: Bobbi Young lives in Carmel Valley, California, where she cared for her mother during her final days. The views expressed here are solely hers.
Please enable Javascript to watch this video WEBER COUNTY, Utah - A Weber County dog lost for weeks near Little Sahara, after he and his special-needs daughter disappeared Easter weekend, is finally home. The Davis family had all but given up hope on Cooter, a 5-year old mini Aussie. His daughter, 3-year old Diamond, had returned home in near-perfect physical shape in mid-May. On Tuesday, Tawnie Davis sat in her front yard with Cooter, who is visibly malnourished. She said he's lost 16 pounds, is missing five teeth and is fighting off fleas and ticks. But the mini Aussie's spirit is none the worse for wear. "His little tail-- 90 miles an hour, all the time," Davis said, as Cooter eagerly wagged his tail. The happy pup may have obvious signs of roughing it in the wild for two months, but considering what Cooter's been through, those who know his story will agree it's a miracle he's even alive. His miracle journey started when Davis said the dogs got spooked and took off when a family member opened their camping trailer door on March 30. The family and local residents launched an extensive search in a 200-mile radius around the dunes. A month and a half later 30 miles south of the dunes, a power plant work trapped Diamond inside a secure area of the facility. Cooter was still nowhere to be found. "You get doubtful when you don't see anything," Davis said. "They're dead or something's got him." A few days after Diamond returned home, Davis said a man called her to report sightings of Cooter around Vernon-- 40 miles north of Little Sahara. She went to look for Cooter, but said she couldn't find him. Maryjo Korb, a Sandy woman with strong ties to animal rescues and volunteer work tracking down missing dogs, decided to jump into the search. "I had three traps set around the small town of Vernon," she explained. Korb said she made the hour-plus drive from Sandy for two nights around 6 p.m. then stayed until 2 or 3 a.m. in hopes of trapping the lost dog. At first, she said they caught cats and a skunk, and almost ended up with a Heeler in the trap. She expressed her doubts that Cooter was even still alive. "There's no way he could make it two months in the wilderness," she said. On day three, just before midnight Saturday, she and a friend who also helped in the search checked one of the traps and to their surprise, they found a dog sitting inside. "Just started squealing and screaming because we said, 'Oh my gosh, it's Cooter!'" She recounted. Around 2 a.m. Sunday, Davis reunited with Cooter. She said he recognized her and jumped right in their truck to go home. "I'm very shocked, and very surprised," Korb said. "Obviously he's got a will to live. He wanted to get home." Now, both dogs are back with their people. "I'm happy," Davis said. "Our family's whole." Davis said the vet will need to pull more of Cooter's teeth, and he'll need to get back up to weight. She said she was so grateful for Korb's work to find Cooter, that she's started this fundraiser to help Korb in her volunteer efforts to track down other missing dogs.
Josh Campbell is a CNN Law Enforcement Analyst, providing insight on crime, justice, and national security issues. He previously served as a Supervisory Special Agent with the FBI. Follow him on Twitter @joshscampbell . The opinions expressed here are his own. (CNN) Following last week's unfounded claim from the White House that the FBI illegally spied on the Trump campaign for political purposes, the Department of Justice took the unprecedented step of meeting with lawmakers in two classified sessions to discuss the details of the bureau's original counterintelligence investigation. The silence from House Republicans since the briefings has been deafening. Until now. Immediately following the meetings, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, Adam Schiff (D-CA) addressed the press, saying he saw no evidence the FBI acted improperly. House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) finally echoed those claims Tuesday on Fox News, going so far as saying the FBI responded precisely in the manner the American people would have expected of them, and that the investigation was not about Trump but was instead responding to a national security threat. After the men and women of the FBI were unfairly labeled crooks, isn't an apology in order? To make sense of the damage being brought to the agency's reputation, it is important to revisit exactly how the latest assault on the FBI came into existence. Just when our institutions of justice seemed to be enjoying a temporary cessation of hostilities from a White House seeking to defend itself from allegations of impropriety, the President unloaded a fresh salvo on Twitter -- his preferred method of communication -- and accused the FBI of criminal activity. His information appeared to stem from media reports indicating a bureau informant had been used to collect information for a lawful counterintelligence investigation seeking to determine whether Russian agents had worked to influence an American election. What followed was a coordinated campaign to unearth the identity of the informant, with House Intelligence Committee chairman Devin Nunes even going so far as to subpoena the Justice Department for information about the source, thereby bulldozing the long-standing norm that congressional officials would respect the intelligence community's need to protect sources and methods. Ever the marketing maven, President Trump sought to rebrand this informant with the pejorative label of "spy," even going so far as to announce his own freshly minted scandal he would theatrically name "Spygate." The problems with this recent episode are twofold. The most serious is the chilling effect these actions will have on the government's ability to convince individuals with access to information to risk their own safety and privacy in the service of our country. Put simply, these actions will make our country less safe because it will be harder for FBI agents and CIA officers around the world to convince potential sources that their identities will not be exploited by politicians with partisan agendas. The second problem with this political war being waged on the FBI is that it is simply grounded in falsehoods. The FBI does not run "spies," but, rather, human sources, who are the most highly regulated and scrutinized investigative tools in the FBI's arsenal of techniques used to identify and neutralize national security and criminal threats. Labeling someone working for law enforcement as a spy is simply a creative way of manipulating public opinion and casting doubt on a revered institution. You can have a witch hunt without witches, but you can't have a Spygate without spies. When I served as an FBI special agent, I was responsible for identifying, recruiting, and handling sources who collected invaluable intelligence that was necessary to prevent threats posed by extremists and hostile foreign intelligence services. In order to use a source, an FBI special agent must continually navigate a complex oversight system responsible for ensuring sources are used legally and add value to investigative efforts. The approval process for utilizing a source to further an investigation involving a presidential candidate would have immediately skyrocketed to the top levels of FBI and Justice Department leadership. So, why then do we see this continued campaign against the FBI? As I wrote in The New York Times in February, many inside the FBI believe the constant stream of political attacks is simply meant to undermine the credibility of the organization. Doing so will presumably help soften the blow in the event that Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who now leads the government's efforts to investigate Russian interference following the firing of my former boss James Comey, ultimately finds wrongdoing on the part of White House. This is nothing short of a political campaign to discredit those doing the investigating, in order to render their eventual conclusions questionable. Let's be clear. To date, there has been zero evidence the FBI acted improperly in its investigation. The actions by the White House and Republicans on the House Intelligence committee will only further strain an already fractured relationship with those in law enforcement charged with upholding the rule of law. They don't take kindly to being called criminals. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook The only appropriate way forward is for those elected leaders who have been castigating law enforcement and violating sacred norms involving sources and methods to immediately cease in their efforts and publicly apologize for these baseless claims. Doing so might in some small way help repair the damage to a law enforcement agency that must maintain public support to be effective. An apology will also possibly signal to potential human sources around the world that this entire unfortunate episode was simply an aberration, and exposing sensitive sources and methods in this instance was merely an ill-advised exception and not some dangerous new rule.
CNN national security analyst John Kirby, a retired rear admiral in the US Navy, was a spokesman for both the State and Defense departments in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) I came across an old photo the other day, something my grandfather had held onto -- a gruesome image of a pile of burned corpses. It appears to have been taken somewhere in France during World War I. It's not clear to me whether the corpses are soldiers or civilians, American or French. I can't tell by looking at it who burned them or why. And I have no idea how my grandfather came by the image, or why he kept it all those years. Pop had been a sailor aboard the battleship Utah during the war. Utah was one of several Navy ships tasked in 1918 with escorting US troop convoys as they approached the British Isles. She operated out of Bantry Bay, Ireland. Pop never spoke much about the war, at least not voluntarily. But then, he never much spoke about anything. Quiet man. And sober -- literally and figuratively. He never took a drop. The only war memory Pop ever shared with me was the sight of pulling into an Irish port and seeing row upon row of dead laid out upon the pier, ready for the return voyage home. Some, he said, had been so recently killed they weren't even in caskets. Pop was about 18 at the time, a kid himself. He joined the Navy in 1915, lying about his age to escape a tough situation at home. He felt fortunate. Though German attacks on the convoys were a constant threat, Pop knew life at sea -- though not without risk -- was better than the life of a foot soldier in the trenches. I never heard him express anything but reverence for the grunts. Maybe that's why he kept the photo. Maybe it served as a reminder of the ugly toll war demands of a country, of a people and of the troops who have to fight it. Pop died a long time ago, so I never got to ask him. I'm going to choose to believe he never wanted to forget those doughboys on the pier or how lucky he had been or what sort of life he wanted to live when his time in the service was up. For Pop, it seemed to me, every day was a kind of Memorial Day. We will do and say all the right things this weekend. We'll fly the flag. We'll say a prayer. We'll salute the troops. We will feel proud and sorrowful at the same time. We will hug our little ones a little tighter, and we'll think about all those Gold Star families out there -- wives without husbands, husbands without wives, children without moms or dads and moms and dads without their children. Maybe we'll decide to get active in a veterans, wounded warrior or family support organization. I hope so. And maybe some of us will shed a tear for them, those for whom life will never be the same. But then, for the most part, our lives will go back to being the same. And, for the most part, that's just fine. That's what those brave men and women were fighting for. I believe, because I had the privilege of knowing a couple of them before our enemies snuffed out their lives, that those who have fallen in our defense would not want us to mourn forever their loss. I think they would want us to live, and to do so happily. What a precious gift. Which is why it's so important that, in accepting it, we remember them and their families, and the opportunities they gave us to be just a little bit better than we were yesterday. Jaimie Leonard was that kind of person. Gregarious, grateful and fun-loving. Always putting others first. We had worked together on the Joint Staff in the Pentagon. I treasured her friendship. An altercation broke out between Afghan soldiers who Jaimie was mentoring in 2013. One of them grabbed a gun and started shooting. Jaimie went down and never got back up. She was posthumously promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel, which made her the most senior female Army officer to be killed in the war -- a war still raging. Jaimie knew a thing or two about sacrifice. She'd lost friends to the fight. She saw firsthand the effect that loss had on their families. She once penned a compelling Memorial Day piece in her hometown newspaper, The Warwick Advertiser, in which she detailed the struggles of the surviving wife of one such friend killed in Iraq. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook "I think a piece of her also died that day," Jaimie said of the widow. "[But] as I've gained more perspective, I've also regarded other concepts such as citizenship in a different light." She ended her piece with a charge to us all: "Take measure of what you have done for your country, and ask yourself if you could do more." I carry a picture of Jaimie with me these days, and look at it often. I love that big, toothy, girl-next-door smile of hers. My photograph is certainly easier to look at than the one my grandfather kept. But it has exactly the same effect on me. It reminds me of the ugly toll war demands, particularly from our soldiers and their families. It reminds me how lucky I am to have known someone like Jaimie and to live in this great country. And it reminds me to take measure of what I've done for that country, and whether I could do more. It helps make every day a kind of Memorial Day. Picture that.
Pink Floyd co-founder Nick Mason is taking the group’s earliest tunes out on the road. The drummer and Rock & Roll Hall of Famer has formed a new band called Nick Mason’s Saucerful of Secrets to play tunes from Pink Floyd’s pre-“Dark Side of the Moon” output. “We’re not a tribute band,” Mason told Uncut last week. “It’s not important to play the songs exactly as they were, but to capture the spirit.” After a series of shows over the past week in London, Mason announced he will take the band on the road for a European tour. (A full list of dates is posted on the band’s website.) There’s no word yet if the tour will be extended to North America.
For his new exhibition, artist Jonathan Lyndon Chase uses bedsheets to relay an “ever-changing and evolving” message about race, gender and sexuality. “Sheets,” which opens Friday at Kohn Gallery in Los Angeles, is a mixed media series of about 12 paintings by Chase that asks viewers to “unravel or disrobe the layers of multiple identity we maintain for the outside world in order to live,” according to organizers. An adjacent, salon-style display will feature additional sketches on paper. Jonathan Lyndon Chase "It’s important for us to continue to center our own narratives, documenting and adding to our history for the future," artist Jonathan Lyndon Chase said. To create the series, the Philadelphia-born Chase used sketches, photos and collages in addition to traditional oil paint. The contorted and often sexually explicit images reflect the artist’s experiences as a queer and non-binary black man. Many of the men depicted wear lipstick, eyeshadow and jewelry in a deliberate nod to 1980s and ’90s ballroom culture. The aim of “Sheets,” Chase told HuffPost, is to encourage viewers to “embrace the potential for change both outside of their own body and world as well as inside of themselves.” “Our stories are not necessarily rooted in pain ― that’s just part of our experience,” he said. “Oppression is not our entire story. It’s important for us to continue to center our own narratives, documenting and adding to our history for the future.” SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube Jonathan Lyndon Chase "These works are the fabric of life and embody the raw and tender beauty of the human experience that does not hide a single stitch," the Kohn Gallery's Jonathan Friedman said. The 28-year-old is open about his struggles with bipolar disorder, something he also aimed to subtly depict in “Sheets.” “The highs and lows are, in ways, like dreams and nightmares,” he said. “This is just one facet of my own story and experience, but prominent in many LGBTQ lives as well.” His impetus for using bedsheets as a base material, meanwhile, was manifold. “Bedsheets have a lot of different connotations to me,” he said. “Reality is made up of socio-cultural threads that are woven together. We’re all part of society, and the common thread is our bodies, which we use to rest, resist and to navigate our identities as well as the outer world around us .... I also think of a bedsheet as similar to a body in that both hold memories, smells and touches.” Image courtesy of Coke Wisdom O'Neal “Our stories are not necessarily rooted in pain ― that’s just part of our experience,” Chase said of his new Los Angeles exhibition, "Sheets."
Washington (CNN) The biggest story of the 2016 election is undoubtedly the rise of Donald Trump, and behind the Republican nominee is a group in its last throes as the biggest force in politics: The white working class. Contrary to many assumptions about this group, the poll finds working class whites generally happy with their lives, and mostly satisfied with their personal financial situation. Just 18% say they are angry about the way things are going in their own lives, and 44% think America's best days lie ahead. They are just as likely as their black and Hispanic working class counterparts to feel optimistic about their lives, 7 in 10 or more say so in each group. But the white working class harbors deep concerns about the country's economy, the amount the government is doing to help the working class and their own ability to influence politics. A majority, 53%, say they are very dissatisfied with the country's economic situation and 84% say their views are not well represented by the government in Washington, well above the share of white college graduates or black or Hispanic working class to say the same. About 6 in 10 white working class people say it's gotten harder for people like them to get ahead financially and two-thirds say it's harder to find good jobs. Many are concerned about what the next generation will face: 50% say they expect their children to have a lower standard of living than they currently have, compared with 35% among whites who have college degrees, 43% among the black working class and 31% among the Hispanic working class. More than other groups, whites without college degrees blame the government for the economic problems that beset the working class, with 62% saying the federal government deserves all or most of the blame for those problems compared with less than half among whites with degrees and the black and Hispanic working class, and 66% saying it doesn't do enough to help the working class. Amid these concerns, Trump holds broad appeal among white working class voters. Sixty percent say they would consider Trump this fall, about double the 29% who say they'd consider Hillary Clinton. Among other groups, far fewer even say they would consider Trump. Among whites with college degrees, 39% say they'd consider him -- that's cut in half among Hispanic working class voters, 18% of whom say they'd consider Trump, and just 3% of black working class voters say they'll give Trump a look. White working class voters are more Republican than Democratic, 56% in the CNN/KFF poll are Republicans or independents who lean that way, compared with 33% who consider themselves Democrats or are independents who lean that way, but the poll reveals that their views on what the government does to help people like them and the changing demographics of the country -- two issues that have been a central focus of Trump's campaign -- are driven by both education and partisanship. The undeniable trend For nearly all of American history, whites without college degrees -- the group identified as white working class for the purposes of this survey and in many assessments of the American electorate -- made up a majority of the public and a majority of voters. That has changed, and rapidly, at the same time the nation's economy has shifted to favor those who hold college degrees. Ronald Reagan was elected in 1980 by an electorate in which 63% of voters were whites who had not completed a four-year college education, according to exit polls. That had dropped 10 points by 1992, when Bill Clinton won the presidency. That election marked the last time exit polls would find whites without college degrees to be a majority of voters. By the time Barack Obama won the presidency in 2008, just 39% of those who cast ballots were whites without degrees. Census figures for voting and registration suggest that the white working class make up a larger share of the electorate than do the exit polls, roughly 44% in 2012 in that estimate. Both data sources have different and unquantifiable sources of error, and there has been some dispute over their true share of the electorate. Regardless of the data source, however, the trend is the same and undeniable -- the white working class is shrinking, and at the same time, their ability to influence American politics has declined. Enter Trump. Working class white voters have been critical to Trump's success. Throughout the Republican primaries, Trump's victories were bolstered by support from whites without degrees. Across 28 states with exit or entrance polls this spring, Trump averaged 50% support among white non-college GOP primary voters or caucus participants, compared with 37% among whites with college degrees. And across five CNN/ORC polls conducted since the primaries ended in June, Trump's lead among white non-college voters averages 29 points, while white college voters have broken in Clinton's direction by an average of 8 points. Restated in terms similar to the oft-cited gender gap, that adds up to a 37-point education gap among whites. According to exit polls back to 1980, it has never been larger than 14 points. The white working class shifts Republican Democrats used to be the party of the white working class, and Republicans, the party of the college educated. Those roles have flipped. Ron Brownstein, a CNN senior political analyst and editorial director for strategic partnerships at Atlantic Media who has reported extensively on this group, calls it class inversion. "In the 50s, 60s, and 70s, Democrats ran better among non-college than college whites," he said. "Starting in the 80s, the two lines converged, and in 2000, (Al) Gore ran better among college than non-college whites, (John) Kerry ran 6 points better, Obama 7 points." Some of that is due to the shifting economy. Working class whites were largely synonymous with union members, who are traditionally staunchly Democratic. As the service economy has grown and manufacturing declined, the profile of union members has changed. In 1980, 70% of all voters who came from union households were whites without college degrees; in 2012, the white working class made up just were 39% of voters from union households. Non-whites and white college graduates were each about 30% of the union vote in 2012, almost double their share of the 1980 vote, and those two groups are increasingly Democratic. But some of it is their differing views on government and change in American society. Within the white working class, those who consider themselves Democrats and those who say they are Republican tend to agree in their assessment of how the working class is doing. About 7 in 10 working class white voters in each party say it's gotten harder for people like them to find good jobs, and narrow majorities of both say the government isn't doing enough to help "people like you." And while they don't see exactly eye-to-eye on immigration or the increasing diversity of the United States, both sets of partisans are more apt than their college-educated counterparts to see a negative side to the country's shifting demographics. Both working class white Democrats and Republicans are more likely than white college educated partisans to feel that the country's increasing racial and ethnic diversity is harmful because it leaves some people feeling left behind. The same pattern emerges in perceptions of immigrants, with white non-college partisans more apt than white partisans with degrees to say immigrants today are a burden on the United States and that the government should attempt to deport all immigrants currently living in the US illegally. And in a party whose second-place finisher for this year's presidential nomination considers himself a socialist, working-class white Democrats are less apt than their college-educated counterparts to consider themselves liberal or to be non-religious, two factors that could be driving them away from the Obama-era Democratic Party. Among white working class Democrats who are registered to vote, 22% say they would consider voting for Trump, vs. just 2% among white Democrats with college degrees, and nearly a quarter, 23%, say they will definitely not vote for Clinton, a figure that stands at 3% among white Democrats with college degrees. The effects of this shift are showing in recent swing-state polling. Trump's best chance to win the presidency comes by flipping rust-belt states where Democrats have had natural advantages in recent presidential elections and which have larger than average blocs of white non-college voters -- Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin among them. In each, Trump has cut into Clinton's advantage with broad support from the white working class. In the pure battlegrounds, Ohio and Iowa also appear to be shifting Trump's way on the strength of his support among white non-college voters. "Democrats have run slightly better among blue-collar whites in Midwestern swing states, and that has been a key to them holding those states," said Brownstein. Will they vote? Majorities of voters across partisan, education, and racial lines say they are dissatisfied with the influence that people like them have on the political process. But there are broader differences when asked about the likelihood of actually turning out to impact that process. In the CNN/KFF Poll, 71% of white non-college voters said they always vote in presidential elections, and 79% rated the chances that they would vote a 10 out of 10. But both figures were smaller than among whites who do have college degrees, about 9 in 10 in that group said they always vote and would be very likely to this time around. But a CNN/ORC poll in early September found almost no difference between whites with degrees and those without in terms of enthusiasm about voting this year. Forty-two percent of white college graduates were extremely or very enthusiastic, as were 43% of white non-college registered voters. Should turnout levels among whites without degrees, whites with degrees and non-whites continue along their current trajectory, the white working class would likely emerge from 2016 still the largest voting bloc in the country in terms of race and educational attainment, for what may be the last time. The CNN/KFF Poll was conducted by telephone August 9 through September 5 among a nationally representative sample of 1,614 adults, including 701 people who were identified as working class whites -- white non-Hispanic adults who do not currently hold a four-year degree and, if under age 25, not currently enrolled in school.
I'm 53 years old and will soon come into a multi-million dollar sum that I need to manage properly for my retirement and for my children's future. I'm not willing to just hand the reins over to anyone, but I also realize I'm not an experienced investor. I'd like to invest this money so it will continue to grow for all of us, but I don't know where to begin. Any suggestions?—Lori Figuring out how to invest a windfall to ensure long-term financial security can be a challenge at any time even for an experienced investor. But this isn't just any time: interest rates have been rising, stocks have experienced some scary volatility lately and this bull market is looking a little long in the tooth as it enters its ninth year. And, of course, you're not a seasoned investor. So suffice it to say I think you've got your work cut out for you. That said, if you go about this task in a thoughtful, methodical and disciplined manner — and are willing to seek help should you run into trouble — I think you should be able to invest this money in a way that can secure your retirement and perhaps your children's future as well. Here are four things I suggest you do to improve your chances of success: 1. Get a realistic handle on how much risk you're willing to take. If there's one thing that differentiates a savvy investor from one who's just winging it, it's the ability to balance reward vs. risk. Clearly, you want to earn returns high enough to help you attain your financial goals. But you don't want to take on so much risk that you expose yourself to losses you're unable to manage. It would be nice if you could anticipate market selloffs and bail out of stocks just before prices nosedive. But no one's crystal ball is that good, at least not consistently. Instead, your goal should be to create a portfolio of stocks, bonds and cash that will allow you to participate in the gains when the market is doing well but also ride out market downturns during which stock prices can sometimes drop by half or more. Your first step toward doing that is to carve out of your windfall enough cash for an emergency fund, basically enough so that a job layoff or large unexpected expense doesn't force you to sell off investments and disrupt your long-term investing strategy. Whatever amount you decide is right to fund this emergency reserve, the money should go into investments that will hold their value even if the market gets hammered. I'm talking FDIC insured savings accounts, money-market accounts and short-term CDs. Yes, these cash equivalents pay very little. But security, not return, is your focus here (although you can still shoot for competitive returns by visiting sites like Bankrate, GoBankingRates and DepositAccounts). Related: How should I invest my nest egg for maximum retirement Income? As for investing the rest of your windfall, the key is deciding on a mix of stocks and bonds that will give you reasonable returns for the level of risk you're willing to take. Achieving the right trade-off is a judgment call, but you can arrive at a blend of stocks and bonds that makes sense for you by going to this risk tolerance-asset allocation tool. The tool will suggest a mix of stocks and bonds and show you how various mixes have performed in the past. That's not to say you have to go with the tool's exact recommendation. You can fine-tune it if you like. But except for occasional rebalancing, you should largely stick with whatever blend of stocks and bonds you go with. Don't get into the habit of trying to shift your money around based on what you think (or what some market prognosticator predicts) the market is about to do. 2. Diversify, but don't overdo it. Once you know how you want to divvy up your windfall between stocks and bonds, you can focus on specific investments. Here, I recommend you keep it simple. The idea is to diversify so that you're not overly dependent on the fortunes of just a few companies or sectors of the market, but at the same time not spread your money so widely that you have a hard time keeping track of and monitoring your investments. There are a number of ways to get no muss-no fuss diversification. One is to create a portfolio of a few broad index funds. For example, combining a total U.S stock market and a total U.S. bond market index fund will give you exposure to virtually the entire U.S. stock and taxable bond markets. Throw in a total international stock and total international bond index fund and you'll have a portfolio that's broadly diversified both domestically and internationally. If you want to make things even simpler, you can invest in a lifecycle fund or target-date retirement fund, both of which do the allocation work for you by providing a pre-set mix of stocks and bonds based on your risk tolerance and/or age. Related: 4 steps you should take when buying an annuity You may be tempted to add even more investments to your portfolio. Indeed, some advisers contend that to navigate today's markets you also need to own all manner of "alternative investments," which could mean anything from commodity funds to private equity to cryptocurrency. My advice: tread very carefully. The more you start loading up your portfolio with niche investments, the harder it can be to manage, and you could end up di-worse-ifying rather than diversifying. Once you have a broadly diversified portfolio and cash reserve along the lines outlined above, I'd say the less you tinker with it, the better. 3. Hold the line on fees and expenses. I can't guarantee that sticking to low-fee investments will boost the returns you'll earn. But Morningstar research on the predictive power of fees has shown that funds with low annual expenses generally outperform those with high costs. And by giving up less to fees and allowing more of your money to rack up gains and compound over the long term, the more money you may have for your retirement and, possibly, to pass on to your children. Fortunately, it's pretty simple to home in on low-fee investments these days. For example, you should have no trouble finding broad index funds that charge in the neighborhood of 0.25% or less a year vs. the 1% or more that many funds charge. And if you feel the need to look beyond index funds, you can single out actively managed funds with low expenses by revving up Morningstar's Fund Screener. 4. Don't be afraid to ask for help — but make sure you're getting the right kind. I get that you don't want to turn over your windfall to an adviser. Still, given the amount of money involved here, it would be a shame if mistakes stemming from your inexperience were to jeopardize this shot at financial security for you and your family. I'm not just talking about getting help with investments, although that's probably the type of assistance that first comes to mind. You also need to think about a host of other planning issues, such as laying the groundwork for your eventual retirement, figuring out how much you can safely withdraw from your investment portfolio after you call it a career and arranging the best way to leave to your children any assets that may remain after you're gone. Getting help doesn't mean you necessarily have to completely "turn over the reins," as you say. Instead of paying someone to oversee your finances on an ongoing basis, you could instead go to an adviser for guidance on specific issues and pay by the hour. But whatever route you go, you'll want to make sure that the amount you're paying is reasonable — and that the person you're dealing with is competent and trustworthy.
Anne Hathaway knows the good, bad and ugly sides of being a Hollywood actress. “I’ve had a 20-year career and I’ve had some really, really bad experiences, but I’ve had a lot of great ones too ― with members of both genders,” the actress said in a recent interview with Glamour. Hathaway, 35, spoke to Glamour for the magazine’s June/July 2018 issue before the release of the much-anticipated “Ocean’s 8,” in which she stars alongside a host of well-known women. The veteran actress also discussed that infamous 2013 hate-storm that enveloped her after she won her first Oscar and, more recently, her involvement with the Time’s Up movement against sexual violence. “While they do not begin to approach the atrocious, galling stories others have shared in recent months, I have had negative on-set experiences, some of a sexual nature,” Hathaway said. “Some are from the beginning of my career, some are more recent ― all are unacceptable.” Hathaway said she joined the Time’s Up movement to ensure that other actresses won’t have to endure what she has. “Being a 35-year-old cisgendered woman who has experienced the everyday, abusive imbalance of the world also made me want to be a part of a movement for change. ... I know the world can be far worse for others than it has been to me, but I suppose, like most everyone who has been hurt, I want to protect others from going through the worst of what I experienced,” she said. Announced on New Year’s Day, the Time’s Up movement consists of more than 300 women in television, film and theater, including big names like Kerry Washington, Reese Witherspoon and America Ferrera. The project was inspired by the recent Me Too movement and hopes to combat sexual misconduct in all workplaces by creating a legal defense fund to help less-privileged women come forward with their stories. “I want to help make what I consider the best of my experiences to be the norm, as it always should have been,” Hathaway continued. “I think that there’s got to be some guys who get high off the power. But in a lot of cases, it’s an echo chamber. Most guys have never seen anything different.” Hathaway added that for there to be progress, everyone has to put in the work: “If change is going to happen, we have to get uncomfortable.” Read the full profile at Glamour.
This essay is part of a column called The Wisdom Project by David Allan, editorial director of CNN Health and Wellness. The series is on applying to one's life the wisdom and philosophy found everywhere, from ancient texts to pop culture. You can follow David at @davidgallan . Don't miss another Wisdom Project column; subscribe here . (CNN) Odds are, you are trying to break a bad habit or institute a good one right now. As a species, we are impressively committed to self-improvement, and most of us believe that habits are an effective means to that end. Habits -- actions performed with little conscious thought and often unwittingly triggered by external cues -- are powerful influences on behavior and can be our greatest allies for positive change. But because they are so difficult to break, habits are also frequent saboteurs of personal progress. "Habit is a good servant but a bad master" is how author Gretchen Rubin summed it up in her book "Better Than Before: Mastering the Habit of Our Everyday Lives." Hers was one of three recent books I read back-to-back on the subject of habit formation; the others were Charles Duhigg's "The Power of Habit" and Jeremy Dean's "Making Habits, Breaking Habits." Together, they helped me understand more deeply the importance of habit control, how to choose a habit to begin or end, and the mechanics of sticking with it. The first thing to know, each book explained, is that a lot of our daily actions are so rote, they are automatic. "All our life ... is but a mass of habits," philosopher and psychologist William James wrote, though a 2006 study put the amount of habitual daily action at 40% . Still, that's a lot of mindless behavior. It's helpful that we don't need to think about how or when to drink coffee, brush our teeth or drive to work. If we did, we'd waste so much time rethinking or learning those tasks, we'd get little else done. The whole trick is to get habits to work for you, not against you. Self-control is a limited resource, Dean explains, so a good habit means not having to exert effort every time you need to do the right thing. Room to grow The first thing to identify for yourself is the habit you want to work on, whether it's starting a new (good) one or ending an old (bad) one. That's a minor distinction, by the way. Eating healthier is eating less junk. Exercising more is being less sedentary. One is often the inverse of another. This step requires some honest self-evaluation. What is not working in your life? What personality flaws are holding you back? Where is there room to do better? We know what many of the most common areas of improvement are, at least when it comes to making resolutions. People want to lose weight, eat better, be more mindful, spend money more wisely, sleep better and improve relationships. By eliminating bad habits and starting new ones, you can succeed in most of these areas. One helpful checklist frequently used for goal-setting is the acronym SMART, created by economic theorist Peter Drucker. Effective resolutions, research has shown, are Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant and Time-bound. Before finishing the first book (Dean's, which is the most prescriptive and research- and science-based), I decided on two habits to work on myself. The first was to be more present and mindful with my kids. The second was to stop seeking out and consuming free, non-nutritious food at work. One was a good habit to start, the other a bad habit to quit. Rubin, who approaches the topic personally and looks for specific techniques that work for her, recommends starting a habit at the same time as a big turning point such as pregnancy, marriage, a medical diagnosis, a family death, an anniversary, a long trip or a new year. Repeal and replace your behavior The consensus among these books is that the most effective way to adopt a habit is to replace a bad one with a better one. Dean's metaphor is to think of habits as well-worn rivers of action that flow out of the predictable path of your routine. Often, the most effective way to stop it flowing in harmful directions is not by damming it but by diverting it. For example, many people stop smoking by chewing gum. The point is that bad habits die hard, and as with riding a bike, your brain never stops learning how to do them. So it's easier to think about any habit formation, even new "good" ones, in terms of replacing unwanted behavior. That made sense for my snacking at work. I started buying healthy yet still delicious snacks to keep there: yogurt instead of morning doughnuts, dried papaya instead of chocolate, sweetened rice cakes instead of stale leftover doughnuts. A supply of healthy snack options kept me on a new course of action that largely followed the old eating habit pattern. To be more mindful with my kids, I needed to avoid the opposite behaviors, such as checking my work phone or planning activities while with them so I could focus on their needs and thoughts. Duhigg explains that habit "reversal therapy" is a legitimate technique used for things like tics and obsessive-compulsive disorder, as well as predilections such as gambling, smoking and bed-wetting. It's important to make a distinction between a bad habit and addiction, however, even if the behaviors seem to overlap. Addiction requires greater intervention than habit hacking. Dean describes the hallmarks of addiction as not being in control and not being aware of time/energy spent on the behavior. People with addictions are preoccupied with soothing a craving and needing more and more to get the same effect, as well as suffering withdrawal without it. Unlike bad habits, addictions eat away at important activities such as relationships and work. They tend to be an escape from normal life and are often hidden from others. The wonderful thing about triggers We like to think we have free will in every situation, but many of our actions are predictably triggered by external situations. And if those events are part of your daily or weekly routine, our Pavlovian tendencies become ingrained. Pajamas are on: Time to floss and brush. Cup of coffee in hand: Time to dunk a doughnut. Beer finished: Let's have a cigarette. But triggers can also be feelings, such as stress or boredom. Being aware of your triggers is the first step in learning how to keep them from sabotaging you and make them work for you instead. Is there a certain time of day or task when you crave a treat? What do you always do when you feel stress (go for a run or go for a drink)? What is your bedtime ritual to let your brain know it's time to sleep? You can help create conditions to avoid triggers, but not fully. If the trigger is deeply ingrained, maybe going back years, it will sabotage you when your guard is down. For these situations, you need contingencies. Dean calls them "If ... then ..." plans. When trigger X happens, I won't do bad habit Y, as I usually do, but I will replace it with much healthier Z action. My favorite example of effective trigger planning is Starbucks, a company that puts a higher premium on customer service than on the (habit-fueled) products it sells. Duhigg, who prefers Malcom Gladwell-esque case studies for his book, explains that the chain's baristas are well trained on what to do when something goes wrong, such as a messed-up order that angers a customer. Rather than improvise or consider options in those moments, they practice rapid responses -- such as apologizing and offering a replacement drink for free -- until it's second nature. You likewise need to have a plan for when a strong, perhaps rare, trigger threatens your winning habit streak. Ordinarily, I can avoid eating cupcakes at work, but what's my plan when I've skipped lunch, it's late afternoon, I have some onerous task that would be made more enjoyable with a treat, and the cupcake is filled with peanut butter? 66 is the magic number According to one study cited by Dean and Rubin, it takes 66 days of doing something to convert it to a habit. However, that number varies depending on the person and activity. For example, it took those participating in the study less than 20 days to habitualize drinking a glass of water every day, 60 days for eating fruit with lunch and more then 84 days to make 50 sit-ups a daily habit. Some habits could take a year to form. But 66 days is a good target. I avoided work snacking and improved my capacity for parental mindfulness for 66 days straight. Or rather, I diligently monitored these habits over 66 days, because another pillar of successful habit formation is tracking. Even something as subjective as "be more present with my kids" can be numerically self-scored every evening. And another pro tip of habit-making (or replacing) is accountability. Tell other people. Share on social media (unless social media is the habit you're changing). Ask your friends and family to support the effort. Getting others involved, or even just aware, makes it harder for you to give it up. And others' support can be inspiring and helpful. Treat yo'self: rewards Unlike tracking and accountability, incentives are a debatable strategy. Duhigg believes that they are central to the exercise, because habits are reward-based. Rubin concludes that external rewards take you away from internalizing the right motivation behind your new habit. For me, rewards have been pivotal. Five years ago, I took off 25 pounds and have kept it off by establishing an elaborate reward system If you do treat yourself for keeping a habit, make sure it's not self-defeating. You may not want to reward, say, avoiding doughnuts by indulging in a half-gallon of ice cream. And that's one to grow on At the end of 66 days, I stopped tracking my new habits and found that they had largely stuck. When I came home from work, seeing the faces of my daughters was the trigger to remind me to give them my undivided focus. I rarely (instead of automatically) checked my phone for work updates, and I put off my personal agenda items until after bedtime. And I replaced workplace snacking with my private stash of more nutritious snacks: same trigger, but alternate behavior at much fewer calories. The real test though, is time. More than six months have passed since my 66 days of daily tracking, and I'm still doing a solid job on mindful parenting. I have occasionally slipped on the work snacking, though. I wouldn't say I've failed at it, because I'm building up a new long-term habit muscle for healthy snacking, and I ate a lot less junk food than I would have without trying. Rubin would call it "stumbling," and we should accept that it happens in the habit game. Stumbling is not a reason to quit trying. Subscribe to this column Don't miss another Wisdom Project column by subscribing here. You may want to read one of the habit books, too. The three overlap and support each other, but my personal preference was for Rubin's, largely because I feel a kinship with her love of life-hacking, introspection and applied psychology. She's the author of the bestselling "The Happiness Project" and wrote this new book, she explained, after concluding that habits were the best means to actually achieve happiness. But I'll give the last word to the wise Ben Franklin, whose advice would make all these books unnecessary. " 'Tis easier to prevent bad habits than to break them," he wrote.
Washington (CNN) The White House insisted on Wednesday it was not defending Roseanne Barr for the racist tweet that ultimately led to her sitcom's cancellation on ABC. But President Donald Trump and his press secretary Sarah Sanders insisted they were also owed an apology from ABC for airing derogatory comments about the administration. It was an expansive answer on a topic Sanders had said just a day before was not on Trump's radar. It reflected the President's deeply felt resentment at his portrayal in the media, and his long list of grievances at perceived slights over the past year. "The President is pointing to the hypocrisy in the media saying the most horrible things about this President and nobody addresses it," Sanders told reporters at Wednesday's press briefing. She was speaking after Trump wrote on Twitter that Bob Iger, the president of ABC's parent company, Disney, had failed to express regret for the negative things people have said on air about him. "Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC," Trump wrote, referring to himself in the third person. "Maybe I just didn't get the call?" Bob Iger of ABC called Valerie Jarrett to let her know that "ABC does not tolerate comments like those" made by Roseanne Barr. Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC. Maybe I just didn't get the call? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 Sanders expanded on that sentiment, reading from a list of examples meant to bolster Trump's point, including ESPN host Jemele Hill calling Trump a white supremacist on Twitter, "The View" host Joy Behar likening Christianity to mental illness and ESPN anchor Keith Olbermann attacking Trump as a Nazi. "This is a double standard that the President is speaking about," Sanders said. "No one is defending her comments. They were inappropriate. But that was the point that he was making." She lamented the fact television networks didn't air Trump's remarks earlier in the day focused on a new "right to try" bill aimed at helping terminally ill patients access drug treatments that are yet to be fully approved by the Food and Drug Administration. And, as on Tuesday, she insisted the President was focused on other matters, even as her answer on Barr stretched longer than her responses on North Korea or Puerto Rico. "The President is simply calling out media bias," Sanders said. "No one is defending what she said. The President is the President of all Americans and he's focused on doing what is best for our country."
Stephen Bay A red tide is providing the California coastline with some brilliant bioluminescence at night. Photographers on Tuesday and Wednesday shared gorgeous photos on Twitter of glowing waves that were captured on San Diego beaches. Jack Fusco People were blown away by how surreal the photos looked. It looks like another planet. — D Marie (@divingtech) May 9, 2018 yeah I wouldn't have believed the color unless I saw it with my own eyes. Neon blue is not something you normally expect to see in nature — Stephen Bay (@stephen_bay) May 9, 2018 According to Scripps Institution of Oceanography, a department at the University of California, San Diego, the red tide is due to a vast number of dinoflagellates — a type of marine plankton that floats on or near the ocean’s surface. At night dinoflagellates can cause a neon blue color to beam from the water with waves or movement. A #RedTide has brought #bioluminescence to San Diego beaches. Learn more about the phenomenon here: https://t.co/tB60nDSkHD. Photo by Erik Jepsen/UC San Diego pic.twitter.com/JiKg28Gz42 — Scripps Oceanography (@Scripps_Ocean) May 9, 2018 Dimitri Deheyn, a research scientist with Scripps, told NBCLA that the vibrant color is also a survival tactic. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter YouTube Pinterest Snapchat Instagram CLOSE “The algae makes a light when a fish or little shrimp tries to eat it,” he told the news outlet. “That light attracts a bigger fish that can eat whatever is trying to eat the algae.” Jack Fusco Scripps scientists say that red tides are unpredictable and not all of them create an electric hue. They do not know how long the current one will last, but previous red tides have lasted anywhere from a week to a month or even more.
(CNN) Maybe there's no need for a fountain of youth after all. New research suggests that cutting calories by 15% for two years can slow the metabolic process that leads to aging and protect against age-related diseases. After just one year on a reduced-calorie diet, study participants saw their metabolic rates drop significantly. The lowered rate continued into the second year and led to an overall decrease in oxidative stress, a process that has been tied to diabetes, cancer, Alzheimer's disease and other age-related conditions. "Reducing calorie intake provides health benefits to all people regardless of their current health status," said Leanne M. Redman, lead author of the study and an associate professor at Pennington Biomedical Research Center at Louisiana State University. Animal studies have shown that restricting calories by 25% can extend life. The new CALERIE (Comprehensive Assessment of Long-term Effects of Reducing Intake of Energy) study was designed by Redman, her colleagues and the National Institute on Aging to answer a simple question: Would the same be true in humans? Aging biomarkers During the first phase, teams of researchers ran small-scale pilot experiments to answer a variety of questions including, what kind of calorie restriction could study participants actually stick to? To this end, some of the pilot studies tested a diet-only calorie reduction, others tested exercise only, and still others tested half-diet, half-exercise. Another question posed by the researchers: What level of calorie restrictions would have an impact on biomarkers of aging? Aging biomarkers are simple biological measurements that differentiate longer-lived people -- those who celebrate birthdays into their 90s and 100s -- from people who live the average life expectancy, Redman said. "We know that longer-lived individuals are able to sustain lower blood sugar levels and lower levels of insulin and have lower core body temperature levels in comparison to people who don't live as long as them," she said. After the pilot studies, the National Institute on Aging committed to funding larger phase two CALERIE studies at three universities: Pennington in Baton Rouge, Washington University in St. Louis and Tufts University in Boston. At Pennington, Redman and her colleagues focused on reducing calories by 25% through diet alone. Women between 25 and 45 and men between 25 and 50 were recruited; about half were normal weight and the other half overweight but not obese. Throughout the study, participants ate what they liked, yet they also took vitamins and supplements to ensure that their diets were "nutritionally adequate," Redman said. Each participant was also given a scale. Instead of calculating daily calories and slashing them by 25%, weight loss was used to estimate the total reduction in calories for each participant over time. However, the participants did not hit the 25% reduction as anticipated, Redman said: "People achieved 15% calorie restriction, actual, over the two years." No matter. The results from this lesser calorie restriction amount were "pretty remarkable," she said. For example, participants lost an average of about 20 pounds each by the end of the first year and maintained that loss during the second year. "The calorie-restrictive diet also caused a reduction in sleeping metabolic rate by about 10%," Redman said. This remained true after one year, when weight loss peaked, and after two years, when weight remained constant. A slowed metabolism means the body has become more efficient in using fuel -- whether from food or oxygen -- to derive energy. "It's important because every time we generate energy in the body, we generate byproducts," Redman said. These byproducts of normal metabolism, also called oxygen radicals, accumulate in the body and over time cause damage to cells and organs, she explained. And this damage is "what has been linked to a shortened lifespan," she said. Not only did calorie restriction slow the metabolism of participants, lower levels of oxidative damage were seen when measured by a compound in urine. Calorie restriction, then, mimicked some of the healthy aging signposts seen in long-lived individuals, Redman said. 'Breakthrough' The "big breakthrough" with this study, said biologist John R. Speakman of the University of Aberdeen in Scotland and the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing, is that it is the first randomized controlled trial of calorie restriction in humans. Randomized, controlled trials, in which participants are divided by chance into groups to compare interventions, are considered more valuable to scientists than other types of experiments. Speakman, who did not participate in the research but he served on the data safety and monitoring board for the CALERIE project, explained that all previous studies of calorie restriction in humans have been on a voluntary basis. "It has been known since the 1930s that calorie restriction reduces the rate of aging and extends lifespan in rodents," Speakman said. Since then, studies in different animals show the same general pattern -- with some exceptions. "For example, it doesn't work in houseflies," he said. "Plus, the monkey literature is a bit confusing." For this reason, the new study's "big contribution" is that participants showed two key changes previously observed in calorie-restricted rodents: lowered metabolic rate and reduced production of radical oxygen species, Speakman said. That said, the level of calorie restriction achieved in the new study was "rather modest compared to that used in rodents and other animals," he said. "This really shows the difficulties in doing calorie restriction work on humans." However, a strength of the new research is that it "included extensive measurements of the individual responses." Exactly how calorie restriction prevents aging, Speakman said "is the million-dollar question." The research supports two theories of longer life: the "rate of living" (lower metabolism) and reduced oxidative damage. However, the study shows a correlation only, he said, "so we can't infer that these changes are causally linked to reduced aging. Nevertheless it is a step forwards to indicate that these two ideas are not rejected by the current research." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Going forward, Redman wants to reconvene the study participants to see whether they're maintaining calorie restrictions and lowered metabolic rates. She also wants to study a group of people from early in their lives until death so she can see the possible long-term results of restricted calorie intake. It's not only the diet, she repeated. It's true that the people who see more sunrises than most of us eat less -- and more healthy -- calories than in a Western diet, Redman said. "But what's important is they're living longer and they're free of chronic disease."
(CNN) Roseanne Barr blamed the sleep aid Ambien for a series of racist tweets that resulted in the cancellation of her show "Roseanne" by ABC on Tuesday. Barr tweeted, "guys I did something unforgiveable so do not defend me. It was 2 in the morning and I was ambien tweeting." In another tweet, Barr doubled down, saying that she has "done weird stuff while on ambien-cracked eggs on the wall at 2am etc --" Ashleigh Koss, a spokeswoman for the North America region of Sanofi, the maker of Ambien, said in a written statement Wednesday, "While all pharmaceutical treatments have side effects, racism is not a known side effect of any Sanofi medication." People of all races, religions and nationalities work at Sanofi every day to improve the lives of people around the world. While all pharmaceutical treatments have side effects, racism is not a known side effect of any Sanofi medication. The claim drew questions and backlash from social media, with one writer and correspondent for the TV show "Full Frontal with Samantha Bee" saying, "Ambien makes you racist? No wonder some of y'all can't get woke." Ambien makes you racist? No wonder some of y'all can't get woke. 😛 As for whether Ambien could be to blame for Barr's actions, Dr. Nancy Collop, medical director of the Emory Sleep Center, wrote in an email, "I really don't think so." "Writing a coherent tweet is not what is usually seen" during abnormal sleep behavior, she said. In contrast, the types of movements you'd expect to see, like walking or eating during sleep, "don't require a lot of thought." "I wouldn't say it is impossible but I think her history of prior racist comments suggests conscious decisions were made ... not related to the use of a drug," Collop said. Another sleep researcher said she has encountered some patients who have texted in their sleep. These patients "may send things that don't make sense," Dr. Rachel Salas, associate professor of neurology in the sleep medicine division at Johns Hopkins Medicine, wrote in an email. "But some have sent coherent texts without remembering." "Ambien does not induce 'racist tweets,' " she added, "but it is possible that people could text or tweet while on Ambien and not remember. "My advice for people is not to sleep with your phone or electronics near your bed when on sleep aids, and to put a passcode on your phone to make it more difficult to send texts, tweets, or make purchases." A hard pill to swallow? The drug has also been a controversial defense in many legal cases. In 2010, a man accused of disrupting a trans-Atlantic flight by claiming he was carrying explosives also told the federal marshal onboard that he had taken Ambien, according to court documents. Doctors said at the time that it was very unlikely that the drug was the cause. "In a person experiencing confusional arousal because of Ambien, you wouldn't expect to hear comments from that person that seem to fit into the context of the environment that they are in," said Dr. Michel Cramer Bornemann, a lead investigator of Sleep Forensics Associates. "In this case, a man on board a plane is talking about false passports, bombs, dynamite and blowing up a plane. This seems really at first glance, inconsistent with what we know of Ambien's side effects." Ambien, also known by the generic name zolpidem, is a prescription drug used to treat insomnia that was approved in 1992 by the US Food and Drug Administration. It belongs to a class of medications called sedative-hypnotics. The drug has a number of side effects including "abnormal thinking and behavioral changes," which may take the form of "decreased inhibition" such as aggressiveness and extroversion that seem "out of character," according to information that comes with the drug. Hallucinations have also been reported, representing less than 1% of adults in controlled trials for insomnia. Researchers have found high levels of zolpidem in the blood of some patients the morning after a dose -- so much so, it could affect their cognitive and driving skills. This prompted the FDA to lower recommended dosages for certain people in 2013. There have been reports of "complex behaviors": cooking and eating food, making phone calls, having sex and driving. The risk of these behaviors may increase at higher doses and in combination with alcohol or other drugs, experts say. Still, these behaviors "are not 'common,' " Collop said. But even if fewer than 1% of patients experience these symptoms, she added, that would add up to a lot of people, given how common the medication is. These behaviors "have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative-hypnotic," drug information documents say. "Patients usually do not remember these events. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "It can rarely be determined with certainty whether a particular instance of the abnormal behaviors listed above is drug induced, spontaneous in origin, or a result of an underlying psychiatric or physical disorder. Nonetheless, the emergence of any new behavioral sign or symptom of concern requires careful and immediate evaluation."
LONDON (Reuters) — The U.S. dollar edged down on Tuesday, while the Canadian dollar traded close to an eight-month low on persistent worries about a trade war stemming from U.S. President Donald Trump's proposed tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. Against the yen — traditionally seen as a safe haven — the U.S. dollar edged down 0.2 percent to slip below 106 yen <JPY=>, not far from the 16-month low the greenback had slid to late last week after Trump announced plans to impose a hefty 25 percent levy on steel imports, and 10 percent on aluminum. Trump faced growing pressure on Monday to pull back from his plans from political and diplomatic allies as well as U.S. companies, but he said he would stick to his guns. The dollar traded 0.1 percent lower on the day against a basket of six major rivals. "The market has to work out what the trade wars mean for the U.S. dollar," said Rabobank currency strategist Jane Foley. "While in the short term they might be seen as dollar-negative, there's an argument to say in the medium term it could be dollar-positive, because if growth really does slow down, and moves out of emerging markets, then we could see a squeeze on liquidity and some positive dollarmomentum." However, Foley added that the specter of trade wars were unambiguously negative for the Canadian dollar, with Trump's proposed tariffs on steel and aluminum — of which Canada is its prime supplier — seen as a bargaining chip in talks to revamp the North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The Canadian dollar is most affected by the step up in trade war rhetoric. The Canadian dollar traded down a quarter of a percent on the day at C$1.2995 against its U.S. counterpart <CAD=D3>, close to an eight-month low of C$1.3002 set on Monday. "The Canadian dollar is most affected by the step up in trade war rhetoric," wrote Commerzbank currency strategists in a note to clients. "Tomorrow's BoC (Bank of Canada) rate meeting will be decisive for the immediate Canadiand ollar outlook: if, despite the recent developments, the BoC keeps the door open for further rate hikes during the course of the year, the Canadian dollar is likely to be able to resist further notable depreciation," they added. Sweden's crown slumped to a fresh eight-year low, after the governor of the country's central bank said it should not move too fast with normalizing monetary policy, or it could have a negative effect on the crown. The crown slipped 0.2 percent on the day to 10.2070 crowns per euro, its weakest since February 2010. The euro edged up 0.1 percent to US$1.2347, having recovered from a brief selloff on Monday tied to Italy's inconclusive weekend election. Also On HuffPost:
(CNN) Police in Australia say they've identified an alleged serial killer behind three previously unlinked murders but they can't arrest the suspect due to lack of evidence. South Australia police made the extraordinary admission in a public call for help for information that could lead to the arrest of the suspect, a 39-year-old man in Riverland in the neighboring state of Victoria. "We clearly know where he is. He knows he has been a focus of the investigation for many years, he knows that we're looking at it again now," Detective Superintendent Des Bray, the officer in charge of the Major Crime Investigation Branch, told reporters on Tuesday. Police said new forensic evidence and other information had confirmed previous suspicions that a single suspect was responsible for three murders stretching back 20 years. The cold cases include the deaths of Adelaide grandmothers Phyllis Harrison in 1998 and Beverley Hanley in 2010, and Stephen Newton, from Mount Gambier, in 2011. Police revealed a secret task force, including seven detectives, had been reviewing the cases since January. Suspect lived nearby Police said the suspect was known to all the victims and at the time of their deaths had lived within about 10 minutes of them. Bray said that police can't arrest the suspect because "[we want to] make sure we gather enough evidence so we can convict in court... to jump in early and arrest him without sufficient evidence and let him get off would simply expose the public to more risk." The detective said that theft was the motive in all three murders. "This was a cowardly attack on our grandmothers, on an elderly pensioner," he added. "Each attack was extremely brutal, and the type of people that commit these offenses are not worthy of people defending them. So I'd encourage anyone with information to think about it, consider their conscience, consider the families of each of the victims, and do the right thing now and come forward." "It's clear that some people have withheld information and some people have told lies, and some of those people may be scared of this offender," he added. Reward A reward of $150,000 (A$200,000) is being offered for information that leads to a conviction in the cases of the two grandmothers. A separate reward is being offered in relation to the death of the third victim. Harrison, 71, was found dead in her ransacked home in Elizabeth South, an Adelaide suburb. She had suffered multiple stab wounds, the online police statement said. Bray said that she "was killed most likely because she knew her attacker and to stop her from identifying him." The body of 64-year-old Hanley was found at her home in Elizabeth North, a neighboring suburb. She was doing her laundry when attacked and suffered severe head injuries, her house was ransacked and her handbag stolen. "Importantly, a witness heard [Hanley]... talking to a male near the back door of the house, who she apparently knew," said Bray. "During the course of that conversation, their voices became elevated, and it was clear an argument developed, followed by a scream, some loud thuds, as someone had apparently been struck. Then silence fell." The decomposing body of Newton, 55, was found in his home in Mount Gambier, said the statement. He died as a result of an assault, and his was body was discovered over a month later. A range of items including a TV, DVDs, a computer game console and games were taken. "In this case it's possible that more than one offender may have been present at the time of his death, and in any event it's likely that more than one offender was involved in disposing the property that was stolen from his house," said Bray. In Newton's case, a man was charged and convicted in relation to property theft and was sentenced to jail in 2012. The families of the victims have previously released appeals about the cases, an ABC report said, and earlier this year Harrison's daughters spoke publicly about their mother's death. "My son went in first and then I went in and I noticed that she was laying on the floor and I just freaked out," daughter Diane Smoker said, according to the report. The family has previously indicated it believes Harrison's killer was someone she knew. "They got into the house with her acknowledgment and that's when they took advantage of her," daughter Julie Lane was quoted as saying.
As a teenager, Richard Branson never imagined he'd be where he is today. "I was seen as the dumbest person at school," the founder and CEO of Virgin Group told CNNMoney. "The idea that I could be successful didn't dawn on me." As a young student, Branson struggled with dyslexia. He had a hard time keeping up with his classes. But what was perceived as a weakness became a source of strength. "What's interesting about people who are dyslexic is that they can often excel at things that they love and have a passion for," he said. "And I have a passion for quite a lot of things." The billionaire has turned those passions into a far-reaching business empire. He had to take a lot of risks along the way. A voice for young people Branson's first business was a magazine for young people called Student. He was 15 when he started it, and dropped out of school to talk to people around the world and learn about what was happening. "I felt that I could get out and start creating things that would make a difference in the world," he said. To support the magazine, Branson started selling records by mail. Ultimately, the magazine failed. But the mail-order record business turned into something huge: Virgin Records. After mailing records and opening a store, Branson started a label to help support an artist he believed in, Mike Oldfield. "I went to seven record companies, and none of them would put [his Tubular Bells] out. So I formed a little record company on my own," Branson said. The risks paid off. "It sold millions and millions of albums," Branson recalled. After Oldfield, Branson kept signing "bands that nobody else would sign," including The Rolling Stones, Sex Pistols and Janet Jackson. Once he'd established Virgin Records as a success, Branson switched gears. Related: She was too short to play Goofy. Then she invented Spanx. Now she's a billionaire Shooting for the stars In 1984, after working in the music industry for more than a decade, Branson launched the airline Virgin Atlantic. "Nobody thought we would survive," Branson said. But Virgin was good enough to win customers over. "We created an airline that people loved to fly in a marketplace where other airlines were dreadful," he said. "People went out of their way to fly us." Over the years, the Virgin travel family expanded globally to include Virgin America and Virgin Australia. And with Virgin Galactic, Branson is setting his sights on commercial space travel. Branson doesn't want to fall too far behind his space travel rival, SpaceX CEO Elon Musk. "Right now, there's about 700 engineers who are beavering away to make sure that Elon's little car in space does not stay lonely too long," he said, referring to the Tesla roadster that Musk sent into space as part of the maiden launch of SpaceX's Falcon Heavy rocket. "I feel quite soon that little car might have another friend or two out there." Related: Billionaire real estate developer: Getting fired was the best thing that happened to me Failures along the way Branson has had his fair share of public failures. In 1994, the Virgin Group introduced the public to Virgin Cola. "Declaring a soft drink war on Coke was madness," Branson said in a 2014 Virgin blog post. "I consider our cola venture to be one of the biggest mistakes we ever made." "Virgin Cola just wasn't different enough," Branson continued in the post. "Virgin only enters an industry when we think we can offer consumers something strikingly different that will disrupt the market." But he doesn't see failure as a bad thing. "Failure is a wonderful way of learning," he said. As "an entrepreneur, if you're not taking risks, you're not going to achieve anything ... I've learned the hard way sometimes." He'd rather give something a shot than not try at all. "If you give something a go and it doesn't work out, you certainly haven't failed," he said. "You just learned."
Jesse Williams is an actor, activist and Advancement Project board member. Judith Browne Dianis is executive director of Advancement Project's national office. The opinions expressed in this commentary are theirs. (CNN) For a few hours on Tuesday, thousands of Americans will suffer. They will be without their morning jolt, afternoon pick-me-up and end of day treat from corporate giant Starbucks coffee. People around the country will find the doors of about 8,000 Starbucks stores locked as its employees receive racial bias training. The exercise is an effort to save face after some bad press, resulting from a Philadelphia Starbucks' criminalization of two black men who were only doing what so many others do: hanging out in Starbucks . While these folks struggle without their usual coffee fix, there's another segment of Americans who are suffering too: people of color who must constantly face having their very presence in public spaces challenged by white Americans and the police. Over the past month, the presence of black people has also been challenged while playing on a golf course napping in a college dorm and barbecuing in a park But these were just a few indignities shared publicly. Daily, without acknowledgment and in the absence of a smartphone camera or social media campaign, black people have similar -- and regular -- experiences when they are in white space and thought to be "out of place." This white space has been protected throughout history. Of course, during slavery, black presence in white space was highly regulated. And, even after slavery, despite the adoption of the 13th, 14th and 15th Amendments, which on paper granted black Americans many rights they had so long been denied, the freedom to be present in proximity to white people was restricted. This was solidified by the Supreme Court in its 1896 decision in Plessy v. Ferguson, which upheld the "separate but equal" doctrine. Jim Crow laws then further advanced the exclusion of blacks from public and private spaces for the sake of white people, and in service of white supremacy. "Whites Only" signs made that all too clear. When the civil rights movement took root in the mid-20th century, it brought change to the racist laws and the "Whites Only" signs disappeared -- but only in principle. Police continue to practice enforcing unwritten rules of exclusionary white space. From their founding, police were -- and continue to be -- used for social control of black people. From yesteryear's slave patrols to today's response to unnecessary 911 calls, the police rush in to protect white space. Whether 911 calls are made because of hate, implicit bias or the perception that black people don't belong wherever they may be, when the police come, they often criminalize the perceived trespassers, automatically assuming that the white caller's accusations are correct and the black person is guilty. Unfortunately, these run-ins can also turn into excessive use of force -- sometimes deadly. The fact is that we are not out of place. It is wrong to hold black people to protocols that suggest "appropriate" ways to act, speak and wear our hair, or dictate where it's acceptable for us to be present. We face this bias in our workplaces, our children's schools and in our vehicles -- everywhere. Our organization, The Advancement Project, understands that people of color, including our schoolchildren, are at risk just for being black, brown or immigrants. For 19 years, we have worked with grass-roots organizations around the country that seek racial justice, fair policies and alternatives to over-policing in our communities and schools. We continue to support research, mobilize and litigate on behalf of communities who no longer want to feel threatened for just being. Yes, public safety is important and well-trained police are helpful and needed in dire situations and egregious emergencies. When an unfamiliar black or brown person is in your community, when a group of two or more black people are gathered in a public or private space, or when we are speaking our native languages, calling the police serves no purpose but to criminalize, arrest and cast us away. Police should not be used to protect white space from nonwhite people and we most definitely should not subscribe to the forced incarceration and removal of immigrants and refugees, especially when the administration is only targeting people from black and brown countries. While Starbucks has taken steps to use last month's incident as a teachable moment for its countless employees, these occurrences will continue. The rhetoric from the White House has exacerbated the problem, opening the door to increased overt racist behavior. Complaints of violations of white space will not end until we grapple with the history of white supremacy and the role of police in black existence. This requires building an understanding of the trauma that faces black people whose presence is challenged and who must defend that presence to police. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Until we truly confront this issue, many public spaces may as well have "Whites Only" signs hanging in the doorway.
Anyone who’s taken care of a toddler can tell you the experience comes with unending chaos, messes and laughs. The parents of Twitter can attest to this, as many have vented about their toddler struggles and poked fun at their tiny humans in the form of hilarious tweets. To offer some comic relief to other toddler parents (or remind them that they aren’t alone), we’ve rounded up 35 of these spot-on tweets about life with toddlers. Enjoy!
Courtesy Sunayana Dumala Sunayana Dumala’s husband, Srinivas Kuchibhotla, was killed on Feb. 22, 2017, at the age of 32. Courtesy of Priya Chandrasekaran Priyadarshini Chandrasekaran is a mother of two from the Seattle area. She is in the U.S. on an H-4 visa. Many Indian H-4 wives arrive in America as newlyweds. Within a matter of months, these highly educated, cosmopolitan women go from working respectable jobs in India, surrounded by their family, friends, and domestic help, to being isolated inside their suburban American homes. For some Indian women, this enforced break is an opportunity to discover new hobbies or concentrate on the hard work of raising children. But others say they end up feeling a loss of control over their own lives ― whether it’s depending on their husbands for menial tasks, like grocery shopping, or being anxious about how they would provide for their families if their partners ever got sick. In addition, it may take years for these women to see any substantial change in their immigration statuses. No more than 7 percent of employment-based green cards can be given to natives of any one country. With India’s booming population and the high number of Indians arriving in America on employment-based visas, Indian nationals face much longer waits for a green card than those coming from other countries. A study from the National Foundation for American Policy suggests that at the current rate, Indian nationals could wait over 20 years for their green cards. For H-4 wives, that could mean decades of waiting in limbo. Lawmakers and activists have come up with a number of proposed solutions for the challenges facing H-4 wives. Representatives Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.) and Mia Love (R-Utah) are urging the DHS to maintain the current rule granting work authorization to certain H-4 spouses. In a letter signed by 130 bipartisan members of Congress, the politicians insist that giving H-4 spouses the opportunity to work helps both the economy and the women’s children ― many of whom are current or future U.S. citizens. Other advocates, like Dumala and her congressman Kevin Yoder (R-Kan.), have their eyes set on something bigger. Yoder is sponsoring a bill that would eliminate the per-country caps that have caused green card backlogs for Indians. Dumala told HuffPost that while the H-4 EAD program is important, it’s not a permanent solution. She believes Yoder’s bill gets to the root of the problem. “After having seen the worst, I cannot lead others towards a short-term solution,” she said. “Having a H-4 EAD will give us job security, but will it give us life security if an unexpected tragedy knocks on our door?” As their futures hang in the balance, many of America’s H-4 wives have not been content to continue to live in limbo. Numerous Facebook groups connecting these women have sprouted up online. Like Dumala, many have gotten involved in advocacy and have been sharing their stories. Below, HuffPost has gathered together the accounts of five women who are in the U.S. on the H-4 visa. In interviews, these women painted portraits of their lives ― how they fell in love, how they decided to come to the U.S. and the dreams they have for themselves and for their children. All of these women are also recipients of the H-4 EAD, which means they’ve tasted the freedom that comes with having the ability to work and are fearful of what could happen if the program is rescinded. Having an H-4 EAD also means these women are citizens in waiting. Often, they are already the mothers of American citizens. Read on to learn about these women’s lives as they fight for a chance to achieve their American dreams. These interviews have been edited and condensed for clarity. Courtesy of Karunya Rao Karunya Rao “I always thought of myself as a feminist ... I don’t feel like a feminist in this situation.” — Karunya Rao, Stamford, Connecticut If you’re 25 and a single girl in India, alarm bells start ringing everywhere. I was initially extremely skeptical about this whole concept of arranged marriage. But when I met my now-husband, it was completely different. He had a very progressive state of mind. I really liked everything about him. I did not expect to find love in such a method, so I didn’t want to let go of it. He had moved to the U.S. for his master’s. He had been with the same employer for years and was very happy. I was initially not keen on coming to the U.S. But I happened to like the boy and I found out that there was a chance that I could work, thanks to a new rule by the Obama administration. So I took my chances. I probably would have had second thoughts if I knew what was to come. It’s hard to go back now and say that, I don’t want to think like that. But this sheer idea of having this possibility of an EAD is what drove me. My priorities were more about sticking to a person that you like, versus being adamant about the place where you stay. We got married in June 2015 and moved here soon afterwards. We lived in Manhattan first. It was initially exciting, but later, I went into this shell. It’s so easy to isolate yourself in a dark apartment, in a country where you barely know anybody. If I just walked into a Dunkin’ Donuts, I would be at a loss for words. In India, I worked in corporate training, helping new hires in various companies in Bangalore become more confident speaking English. Here, I would make grammatical errors. Just think what that could do for a person’s self-confidence. We eventually moved out of the city to Stamford. I got my EAD in December 2016, but I haven’t found a job yet. I am a living example of why it’s not a privilege to have an EAD. I got a few interviews for marketing positions that I couldn’t take up because I don’t drive. I had plans of starting an online art shop but then came the news of the possible H-4 EAD revocation. The stress and uncertainty is enough to make one’s creative mind shut down completely. I always thought of myself as a feminist. I was always standing up for all my women friends who had to take unfair injustices in their families. But imagine coming here and not being able to do anything yourself, not being able to actually have equality in marriage in the truest sense because I don’t work. I feel like I can’t talk in a social gathering about today’s feminism. I don’t feel like a feminist in this situation, that’s the problem. Priya Chandrasekaran Priyadarshini Chandrasekaran and her family. “I felt that I was being caged inside my home.” — Priyadarshini Chandrasekaran, Seattle, Washington My husband and I had an arranged marriage. I didn’t know much about the person I was marrying, except that he worked for Microsoft and that his parents lived in the same city as mine. My mom had brought up a lot of proposals for me and I did speak to a couple of them. What struck me about my now-husband was that he was completely supportive of me taking care of my mom financially in the future. I was completely thrown aback by that and I thought that this is the guy I want to be with, who can treat me right and equal. We met in a restaurant in February 2010, said yes to each other the same evening, and got married in June 2010. I came to the U.S. a few days later. I knew when I came that I wouldn’t be able to work immediately, but I was hoping I’d be able to work after two to three years. The first few months were great, but after some time, I just felt useless. I felt that I was being caged inside my home. I don’t think I actually understood what I was signing up for. My husband used to go to work in the morning and come back late, while I would look at the four walls of my home. I would get up, do chores, call my mom. My husband’s friends would be my friends. It took a long time for me to make friends of my own, to feel like I’m somebody here, that I had a friend. When I heard about the H-4 EAD, I felt so happy. It was like a dream come true. After I got a job, we were able to buy a home and I’m able to contribute to the mortgage. There’s a little free cash flow in the house. I’m sending my kid to swim classes and enrolled him for tae kwon do. We got a nanny. All I needed was the opportunity to be interviewed, to go to work, to do something I like and that I’m passionate about. My husband will eventually be a citizen and I will eventually be a citizen. If you’re going to have me stay home, I’m not going to be useful to the family or the community. I feel like my independence is being cut off by hearing this news that I may not be able to work. Overall, it’s the women who are going to be at a big loss. What are these women going to do? Are we really a society that is going to cause trouble to so many women? I’m sure that will also indirectly affect families and kids. You’re going to be all day home, looking at four walls while the kids are at school. What would you do with those eight, nine hours? Courtesy of Poonam Ghelani Poonam Gangawane Ghelani. “There’s no stability, even though we are doing everything right.” — Poonam Gangawane Ghelani, Waldwick, New Jersey I had a wonderful picture of life in the U.S. I thought we would have a better life. We didn’t have any plans to settle over here in the beginning. We wanted to study, get some experience and go back to India. Once you come over here, you start working, study, get married, your children are born here, then you slowly start to think about settling in the country that we have heavily invested in. I come from a family where boys and girls are raised as equals. I always wanted to have a career like my husband’s. He has more stability because he’s been with a single employer so long that the employer has filed for a green card. That’s not the case with me. I got consulting roles and I don’t get full-time benefits that other employees get. There’s a discrepancy between his career and my career, even though we put in a similar amount of effort. My husband never made me feel bad, but I feel like I should have that monetary power. I should have that confidence you get when you’re earning, when you’re in society, when you have your colleagues outside of home that you talk to about your field of interest. That gives you happiness that can’t be fathomed. And losing that happiness, it will just put you in a depression. It’s just a waste sitting at home and not contributing to the economy. I don’t think stay-at-home moms are not important. The toughest job is a stay-at-home mom. But when you’re qualified, you want something else from your life, you want some more freedom, some independence, some decision-making power. Who doesn’t want that? After hearing about the threat to the H-4 EAD, I have had many sleepless nights thinking about alternatives. We have jobs, kids, a social life, everything, and apart from that this thing is always at the top of our minds. Our lives are depending on these political changes. There’s no stability, even though we are doing everything right. We are legal. There is not a single day that we have been illegally staying in this country. We have been paying our taxes, doing everything right by the book. Why are we being punished for this? tapui via Getty Images “My intention is not to make money — I just don’t want to rot.” — Anupama Krishnamurthy, West Norriton, Pennsylvania When you don’t have a car and you stay at home all day long, no family, no friends, just you and the screen connecting you to the world, you get so depressed and lonely. I lost my self-esteem and my-self respect fell to ground zero. I felt like I was forgetting how to speak in English. Because if you don’t often to speak to other people, if you don’t interact socially and professionally, you start stuttering your own words. You get panic attacks about whether you are speaking right or wrong. You become an introvert even though I’m not an introvert at all. After I had a kid, I didn’t want him to go through what I went through. Putting him on child care was hard on us financially, but very necessary for my mental peace and his growth. If I didn’t put him in child care, he wouldn’t pick up the accent and because of his skin color, he would feel that he’s not an American. I want him to grow up as American and not feel aloft from the community. I literally cried when I got my EAD. I felt that I had gotten a freedom card. My intention is not to make money ― I just don’t want to rot. I eventually got a job in the field that I studied for. It’s indescribable ― the confidence, the self-respect you have. When we heard that the EAD could be revoked, we canceled our plan of buying a home and now we’re thinking about what we can do. We can’t live in this uncertainty forever. The stress eats you up so that you’re not normal anymore. It’s like we are living a nightmare every day. You leave your fruitful career behind and come here for an American dream, for something better. But it’s not better. Everyone expects to grow, not to be pulled back. We’re not asking too much. Let us work, let us contribute to society, to ourselves, so that we have some self-respect when we look at ourselves in the mirror. America is a land of immigrants; it’s made out of immigrants. We have been contributing, not just Indians, but all immigrants, have been contributing for themselves and for the country. It’s just because of our broken system that we are stuck in line and treated unfairly. Courtesy of Molika Gupta Molika Gupta. “I think the most devastating effect was on my confidence.” — Molika Gupta, Sterling Heights, Michigan I came to the U.S. as the wife of student, then became a student myself. In 2015, the company I was working with filed my H-1B, but it was not picked up in the lottery. I had no option but to convert my visa status to H-4. Before I changed to the H-4, I was constantly on my toes, studying, working, pursuing my passion, meeting people. I went from attending meetings on Monday mornings while I was working, to watching Netflix on Monday morning the next week. During the two years that followed, it was a period of all the emotions a person can go through, from depression to loneliness to questioning your self-worth. It was a dark period of my life and my career. I think the most devastating effect was on my confidence. Even if you have a supportive spouse, it’s about the basic decision-making power, a sense of freedom. I would say it took me a good year to really embrace the fact that I cannot work and after that, I just wanted to understand what else I can utilize my life for. That’s when I decided to pursue my passion of writing and building a community of immigrant spouses who are in a similar situation like me. I started a Facebook group [Immigrant Spouses ReWrite Your Story]. The biggest goal was to connect to other spouses, men or women, who are on different journeys with different visa categories, to know how they’re pursuing their skills, how they’re waking up every day and putting a smile on their faces. After the EAD, I felt like I can visualize my future again. All the EAD does is give you the eligibility to apply. We are competing with the same highly skilled competent workforce. Right now, I’m working as a freelance professional and I’m looking for full-time opportunities. There’s still a gap in my resume that has posed questions and it’s difficult to make employers understand why these gaps are there. It’s still very difficult to find a position even after the H-4 EAD. If the EAD is revoked, I’m clueless about what I’m going to do. The thought of leaving this place I call home shatters me to the core. CORRECTION: A previous version of this story incorrectly stated that Molika Gupta came to the U.S. as a student. She came as the wife of a student.
NEW DELHI – Her clients were already in the courthouse, the judge was waiting; but when Afshan Pracha, a 35-year-old lawyer arrived at the Tis Hazari courts in West Delhi, she was allegedly abused, groped, dragged by her hair, and pushed down a flight of stairs by a mob of male lawyers from the Tis Hazari Bar Association. The bar association filed a police complaint against her, alleging she tried to snatch a gold chain and cash from the junior associate of the secretary of the Bar Association, Jaiveer Singh Chauhan – one of the men she said assaulted her. The trigger for this inexplicable violence, Pracha said, was that she sought to enter court on a day that the bar association had called for a strike over the allotment of lawyers' chambers. "I told them I will simply go inside, inform the judge that I cannot appear, speak to my clients and leave," Pracha said. "These men keep doing things like this with impunity. They have attacked several women in the past." "The FIR filed by that woman is false, there was no attack on her. Women lawyers don't face any problems here." This isn't the first time a women lawyer has complained of harassment at the hands of her male counterparts in Delhi's courtrooms. As more and more women speak out against sexual harassment at the workplace, several women lawyers HuffPost India spoke to said courtrooms remain bastions of male privilege, intimidation, and even outright violent assault. Several women lawyers told HuffPost that harassment, abuse, were part of the perils of practicing law at the city's courthouses. Most sought anonymity, fearing that speaking out would result in reprisals from their male colleagues. "We feel so insecure in district courts in general after sundown," Pracha said. "They turn into open bars and it's really unsafe." Tis Hazari, women lawyers said, has a particularly unsavory reputation. "These lawyers are not scared of anything. Absolutely nothing," said Liyi Marli Noshi, a young lawyer from Arunachal Pradesh who was attacked in the same courthouse in 2015. Culture of Misogyny Senior advocate Rebecca John said there is a clear pattern to incidents of violence against the women. "These were all cases of women defying arbitrary diktats set by men. How dare they, right?" John said, explaining that this sense of male entitlement, especially in trial courts, comes from the lack of opportunities for women. "As newcomers, you have to first work in chambers of senior lawyers. In trial courts, almost all the prominent, powerful lawyers are men." said John. "That's where the vulnerability starts." John said things had improved in the 30 years that she had been practicing law, but women lawyers who exclusively practice in lower courts of the country have it especially rough. In the hierarchies of men, zealously protected to this day, John said, "It is very easy to treat women as inconsequential." When Avni Bansal began practicing in a trial court in Harda, Madhya Pradesh in 2013, after getting her law degree at Oxford, she found her male counterparts frequently sought to belittle her. "There would be snide remarks about my clothing or the fact that I studied abroad, made by male lawyers," Bansal said. "There were also suggestions that I didn't know how things worked on the ground." John has similar memories of toxic masculinity she faced as a young lawyer, during her stint with trial courts. "I spent days listening to this abusive language. It was not essentially directed at me, but that's how male lawyers generally spoke to each other irrespective of who they were around," she said. Bansal said it was common for male lawyers to point at women lawyers "character" during court proceedings and accuse judges of being partial to women. Bar Brawlers The lack of representation of women in elected bodies of lawyers makes it easy for sections of men in the profession to exert undue influence over the day to day functioning of the courts, like it was witnessed in Tis Hazari. The top posts of the Delhi Bar Council are held by men, as are the posts at Tis Hazari. One of the lawyers who assaulted her, Pracha alleged, is Jaiveer Singh Chauhan – the Delhi Bar Association's secretary. "The FIR filed by that woman is false, there was no attack on her," said Naresh Chand Gupta, the President of Tis Hazar's bar association. "Women lawyers don't face any problems here." Jaiveer Chauhan, the bar secretary, echoed his president, claiming that Pracha's complaint was part of a larger political conspiracy agains the Chief Justice of India. Yet Pracha is not the first woman to be harassed in Tis Hazaari. Outlaw-yers In May in 2015, lawyer Dharitry Phookan received a call from a North-Eastern students' association. A Naga girl had allegedly been molested by a lawyer, but she was now being prevented from appearing in Tis Hazari court by members of the bar association. Phookan, who's from Assam, rushed to the court only to encounter a shocking sight. Scores of male lawyers had blocked the girl's way and were shouting insults at the victim and her friends. "A mob of lawyers had gathered to support the molester. Friends of the lawyer then started pushing the students and then some of them started slapping the male students accompanying the victim. They were hurling unspeakable invectives at the women and pushing and shoving them," Phookan said. A report published on The Indian Express at that time carried the picture of Mavio Woba, a student activist whose face was bruised all over with red welts and cuts. Phookan called up her juniors – three women and a man – all of who were lawyers hailing for various parts of North East India. Liyi Marli Noshi was one of them. Eventually the police had to escort Phookan and the victim to a courtroom, and eventually helped them escape unnoticed through a back entrance. But Noshi, Phookan's junior, was physically attacked by a large group of lawyers. "They will not be able to intimidate me, they can try. They have a whole gang of lawyers backing them, but I will not back down." "They descended on these women in hordes hurling abuses at them, calling them 'chinki' etc," Phookan recounted. One of them, Phookan said, also slapped Noshi. As a horde of lawyers chased them, the women had to run for their lives and hid inside a police van. Chauhan, who had initially said that no woman has ever been attacked in the court premises, admitted that he was aware of the incident. "Action was taken against him," Chauhan said. He mentioned a single accused being referred to the bar council but added, "I don't know what happened finally. It was not the secretary then." A group of women lawyers led by Indira Jaising approached the Delhi High Court and chief justice of the court, G Rohini for action. However, nothing came out of it. "It was shocking," said Phookan. They then filed a contempt petition, demanding the court take action against the violent male lawyers for interfering with and disrupting the process of justice. Judge Attacked Days after Pracha filed her complaint, the Chief Justice of India issued an order asking High Courts to make sure that all trial courts comply to Vishakha guidelines immediately and set up sexual harassment complaint committees within two months. But few expect these guidelines to be implemented in Tis Hazari, where even women judges aren't safe. In 2004, Sujata Kohli, a judge at Tis Hazari, complained that a group of mostly male lawyers, barged into her courtroom, and abused and threatened her when she refused to stop working and participate in a strike called by them. The then secretary of the bar association told her, "Naukri Karni Hai, Ki Nahi (do you want to keep your job or not?)", according to a petition filed in the Supreme Court by Kohli. Kohli approached the High Court as well, but ­– like Noshi, the lawyer – got no relief. Instead, the lawyers, Kohli said, boycotted her court, and filed a complaint against her conduct. But Pracha, the lawyer assaulted in May this year, is standing firm. "They will not be able to intimidate me, they can try," she said. "They have a whole gang of lawyers backing them, but I will not back down."
Going to college just got a lot less expensive for Walmart workers. Under a new benefit program, employees will pay just $1 a day to earn a degree, the company said Wednesday. Walmart will cover the remaining cost for tuition, fees and books. All Walmart and Sam's Club workers in the US will be eligible as soon as they've been with the company for 90 days. It applies to all part-time, full-time, and salaried employees. For now, the degree choices are limited to an associate's or bachelor's degree in either business or supply chain management, but the company may offer more choices in the future, a spokesperson said. Workers must pursue the degree at one of three colleges: the University of Florida, Brandman University or Bellevue University. All three schools have online, accredited programs tailored for working adults. Related: Hotel industry wants to pay for their workers' college degrees Walmart has partnered with Guild Education, a benefits platform, for the new employee perk. Through Guild, workers will be offered a coach who can help them with the application process as well as deciding on the appropriate degree. Workers will also be able to earn college credits for attending some paid trainings at work, reducing the time needed to complete a degree. The company will be phasing out 15% tuition discount it previously offered workers for credits taken online at American Public University. Related: McDonald's boosts tuition benefits because of the new tax law About 1.4 million Walmart workers will be eligible for the benefit. The company expects 68,000 of them to participate over the first five years, based on enrollment in similar programs. There is no penalty for leaving the company or failing to complete the degree. In February, Walmart raised its minimum wage to $11 and gave out one-time bonuses of up to $1,000. The new benefits and increased pay "increases the pressure on other companies inside and outside of retail as this heats up the competition for quality employees," said Moody's Lead Retail Analyst Charlie O'Shea. Citing a tight job market, several hotel companies have recently expanded tuition benefit programs. Earlier this year, McDonald's started offering $2,500 a year to eligible restaurant employees and $3,000 to managers in tuition assistance. Starbucks started a tuition-free program in 2015. More than 1,000 of its workers have completed their degrees to date.
Despite the recent buzz around the third royal baby being born, there was one moment that distracted us from it all: Princess Charlotte’s adorable wave. The two-year-old captured hearts when she arrived at the hospital to meet her baby brother for the first time on Monday 23 April, eagerly smiling at the crowds and photographers outside. Just look how she mastered that royal wave. The cutest royal wave ever 👑 Prince George and Princess Charlotte are off to visit their baby brother for the first time. #RoyalBaby pic.twitter.com/zZxzRHYUlF — ITV (@ITV) April 23, 2018 But let’s be honest, that’s not the first time the Princess has won us over with her cuteness. Here are the moments we’ve loved. 1. When she turned around to give another cheeky wave on the steps of the Lindo Wing. Samir Hussein via Getty Images 2. When she had a mini tantrum while touring in Germany and proved she’s just like any other toddler. Franziska Krug via Getty Images 3. When she smelled a mini bunch of flowers during an official visit in Berlin. Isa Foltin via Getty Images 4. When she made funny faces from a plane window. Chris Jackson via Getty Images 5. When she got shy in public when arriving in Poland. DMC via Getty Images 6. When she really didn’t see the fascination of the Trooping the Colour parade. James Devaney via Getty Images 7. When she had a sneaky look at the crowds during an event and wasn’t impressed. Max Mumby/Indigo via Getty Images 8. When she was a flower girl. SO CUTE. WPA Pool via Getty Images 9. When she clutched on to a candy cane. AFP via Getty Images 10. When she tried to smile but really wasn’t feeling it. Pool/Samir Hussein via Getty Images
(CNN) As tens of thousands of Americans die from prescription opioid overdoses each year, an exclusive analysis by CNN and researchers at Harvard University found that opioid manufacturers are paying physicians huge sums of money -- and the more opioids a doctor prescribes, the more money he or she makes. In 2014 and 2015, opioid manufacturers paid hundreds of doctors across the country six-figure sums for speaking, consulting and other services. Thousands of other doctors were paid over $25,000 during that time. Physicians who prescribed particularly large amounts of the drugs were the most likely to get paid. "This is the first time we've seen this, and it's really important," said Dr. Andrew Kolodny, a senior scientist at the Institute for Behavioral Health at the Heller School for Social Policy and Management at Brandeis University, where he is co-director of the Opioid Policy Research Collaborative. "It smells like doctors being bribed to sell narcotics, and that's very disturbing," said Kolodny, who is also the executive director of Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing. The Harvard researchers said it's not clear whether the payments encourage doctors to prescribe a company's drug or whether pharmaceutical companies seek out and reward doctors who are already high prescribers. "I don't know if the money is causing the prescribing or the prescribing led to the money, but in either case, it's potentially a vicious cycle. It's cementing the idea for these physicians that prescribing this many opioids is creating value," said Dr. Michael Barnett, assistant professor of health policy and management at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. CNN spoke with two women who've struggled with opioid addiction, and they described the sense of betrayal they felt when they learned that their doctors had received large sums of money from the manufacturers of the drugs that had created such havoc in their lives. Carey Ballou said she trusted her doctor and figured that if he was prescribing opioids, it must be because they were the best option for her pain. Then she learned that opioid manufacturers paid her doctor more than a million dollars over two years. "Once I found out he was being paid, I thought, 'was it really in my best interest, or was it in his best interest?' " she said. To do the analysis, CNN -- along with Barnett and Harvard's Dr. Anupam Jena -- examined two federal government databases. One tracks payments by drug companies to doctors, and the other tracks prescriptions that doctors write to Medicare recipients. The CNN/Harvard analysis looked at 2014 and 2015, during which time more than 811,000 doctors wrote prescriptions to Medicare patients. Of those, nearly half wrote at least one prescription for opioids. Fifty-four percent of those doctors -- more than 200,000 physicians -- received a payment from pharmaceutical companies that make opioids. Doctors were more likely to get paid by drug companies if they prescribed a lot of opioids -- and they were more likely to get paid a lot of money. Among doctors in the top 25th percentile of opioid prescribers by volume, 72% received payments. Among those in the top fifth percentile, 84% received payments. Among the very biggest prescribers -- those in the top 10th of 1% -- 95% received payments. On average, doctors whose opioid prescription volume ranked among the top 5% nationally received twice as much money from the opioid manufacturers, compared with doctors whose prescription volume was in the median. Doctors in the top 1% of opioid prescribers received on average four times as much money as the typical doctor. Doctors in the top 10th of 1%, on average, received nine times more money than the typical doctor. "The correlation you found is very powerful," said David Rothman, director of the Center on Medicine as a Profession at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. "What's amazing about the findings is not simply that money counts but that more money counts even more." Paying doctors for speaking, consulting and other services is legal. It's defended as a way for experts in their fields to share important experience and information about medications, but it has long been a controversial practice. Pharmaceutical company payments to doctors are not unique to opioids. Drug companies pay doctors billions of dollars for various services. In 2015, 48% of physicians received some pharmaceutical payment Dr. Steven Stanos, president of the American Academy of Pain Medicine, said he wasn't surprised that doctors who frequently prescribe a drug are often chosen and paid to give speeches about the drug to other doctors. "They know those medicines, and so they're going to be more likely to prescribe those because they have a better understanding," Stanos said, adding that some of the money paid to doctors may have been to teach other doctors about new "abuse-deterrent" opioid drugs. Stanos' group accepted nearly $1.2 million from five of the largest opioid manufacturers in the United States between 2012 and 2017, according to a recent report by the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. Stanos said the money was used for various projects, including courses on safe opioid prescribing. "I would obviously hope that a physician would not prescribe based on some type of kickback or anything like that, that they'd obviously be prescribing [in] the best interest of the patient," he said. But Dr. Daniel Carlat, former director of the Prescription Project at the Pew Charitable Trusts, said the CNN and Harvard findings are in line with other studies suggesting that money from drug companies does influence a doctor's prescribing habits. "It's not proof positive, but it's another very significant data point in the growing evidence base that marketing payments from drug companies are not good for medicine and not good for patient care," said Carlat, a psychiatrist who blogs about conflicts of interest. "It makes me extremely concerned." Barnett, one of the Harvard researchers who worked with CNN, said pharmaceutical companies pay doctors for a reason. "It's not like they're spending this money and just letting it go out into the ether," he said. "They wouldn't be spending this money if it weren't effective." According to a statement by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, drug companies support mandatory and ongoing training for prescribers on the appropriate treatment of pain. "PhRMA supports a number of policies to ensure patients' legitimate medical needs are met, while establishing safeguards that prevent overprescribing," according to the statement from the group. Angela Cantone at her home in Greenville, South Carolina. 'I trusted my doctor' Angela Cantone says she wishes she had known that opioid manufacturers were paying her doctor hundreds of thousands of dollars; it might have prompted her to question his judgment. She says Dr. Aathirayen Thiyagarajah, a pain specialist in Greenville, South Carolina, prescribed her an opioid called Subsys for abdominal pain from Crohn's disease for nearly 2½ years, from March 2013 through July 2015. Subsys is an ultrapowerful form of fentanyl, which is 50 to 100 times more potent than morphine, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention "He said it would do wonders for me, and it was really simple and easy. You just spray it in your mouth," Cantone said. She says Subsys helped her pain, but it left her in "a zombie-like" state. She couldn't be left alone with her three young children, two of whom have autism and other special needs. "I blacked out all the time. I'd find myself on the kitchen floor or the front lawn," she said. She says that if she missed even one day of the drug, she had uncontrollable diarrhea and vomiting. She said she brought her concerns to Thiyagarajah, but he assured her it couldn't be the Subsys that was causing her health problems. "I trusted him. I trusted my doctor as you trust the police officer that's directing traffic when the light is out," she said. She says that when she eventually asked Thiyagarajah to switch her to a non-opioid medication, he became belligerent. "He said it was Subsys or nothing," she said. Angela Cantone holds an opioid called Subsys that her doctor prescribed to treat her prain from Crohn's disease. Cantone would later learn that from August 2013 through December 2016, the company that makes Subsys paid Thiyagarajah more than $200,000, according to Open Payments , the federal government database that tracks payments from pharmaceutical companies to doctors. CNN compared the $190,000 he received from 2014 to 2015 with other prescribers nationwide in the same medical specialty and found that he received magnitudes more than the average for his peers. Nearly all of the payments were for fees for speaking, training, education and consulting. Cantone is now suing Thiyagarajah, accusing him of setting out to "defraud and deceive" her for "the sole purpose of increasing prescriptions, sales, and consumption of Subsys to increase ... profits." Through his attorney, Thiyagarajah denied any wrongdoing but declined to comment on this story due to the pending litigation. In a court filing responding to Cantone's lawsuit, Thiyagarajah denied all of the allegations against him and said that all medical care provided to Cantone was "reasonable and appropriate and in keeping with the standard of care." His attorney, E. Brown Parkinson, said the doctor is currently practicing medicine, alternating weeks between his practices in South Carolina and New York. Thiyagarajah might be expected to write a relatively high number of prescriptions for opioid painkillers, given that he's board-certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation with a subspecialty in pain medicine. But he wrote an unusually high number of prescriptions for Subsys and other opioids even when compared with other doctors with the same certifications. In 2014 and 2015, physicians with Thiyagarajah's certifications wrote an average of 3.7 opioid prescriptions per Medicare patient per year, according to the analysis by CNN and Harvard. Thiyagarajah, however, annually wrote more than seven opioid prescriptions per patient per year. After about two years on Subsys, Cantone says, she took herself off the drug cold turkey. According to an affidavit by an investigator for the Drug Enforcement Administration, Thiyagarajah's office was inspected by the agency in June 2015 and found to be prescribing another opioid, buprenorphine, "for non-legitimate medical need" in violation of federal law. In March 2016, the agent conducted another inspection and seized 45 medical records related to Subsys. The DEA did a compliance review and referred its findings to the Department of Health and Human Services, according to Robert Murphy, associate special agent in charge of the agency's Atlanta Field Division. Cantone is also suing Insys, the company that makes Subsys. Insys denied allegations of wrongdoing in a court filing responding to Cantone's lawsuit. Separate from Cantone's lawsuit, John Kapoor, the founder and largest shareholder of Insys, was arrested and arraigned in federal court in October on charges of bribing doctors to overprescribe the drug. "Dr. Kapoor engaged in no wrongdoing and refutes all of the charges in the strongest possible terms," said Tom Becker, a spokesman for Kapoor. "He looks forward to being fully vindicated after having his day in court." Kapoor resigned from the Insys board of directors in October, according to a company news release Several other Insys executives were arrested in connection with an alleged racketeering scheme. Separately, Sen. Claire McCaskill, a Democrat from Missouri, is conducting an investigation into the opioid industry. According to her investigation and the federal indictment, Insys used a combination of tactics , such as falsifying medical records, misleading insurance companies and providing kickbacks to doctors in league with the company. Saeed Motahari, president and CEO of Insys, wrote a letter in September to McCaskill, noting that he was "concerned about certain mistakes and unacceptable actions of former Insys employees." He added that most of the field-based sales staff were no longer with the company. "I stand with you and share the desire to address the serious national challenge related to the misuse and abuse of opioids that has led to addiction and unnecessary deaths and has caused so much pain to families and communities around the country," Motahari added. The analysis Sometimes, pharmaceutical companies pay doctors to do medical research. They also pay doctors for promotional work: for example, to speak with other doctors about the benefits of a drug. Among the doctors who prescribe the highest volume of opioids, the CNN/Harvard analysis found that the largest amount of money was paid for that second category, which includes speaking fees, consulting, travel and food. Concerns about payments to doctors by opioid manufacturers were brought to light last year in a study by researchers at Boston University. Several studies published in medical journals in recent years have found an association between payments by pharmaceutical companies for various types of drugs and doctors' prescribing habits. For example, researchers at the University of North Carolina examined the two government databases analyzed by CNN and Harvard and found that when doctors received payments from manufacturers of certain cancer drugs, they were more likely to prescribe those drugs to their patients. "This study suggests that conflicts of interest with the pharmaceutical industry may influence oncologists in high-stakes treatment decisions for patients with cancer," the authors concluded. Dr. Patrice Harris, a spokeswoman for the American Medical Association, said that the CNN and Harvard data raised "fair questions" but that such analyses show only an association between payments and prescribing habits and don't prove that one causes the other. It's "not a cause and effect relationship," said Harris, chairwoman of the association's opioid task force, adding that more research should be done on the relationship between payments and prescriptions. "[We] strongly oppose inappropriate, unethical interactions between physicians and industry," she added. "But we know that not all interactions are unethical or inappropriate." Harris added that relationships between doctors and industry are ethical and appropriate if they "can help drive innovation in patient care and provide significant resources for professional medical education that ultimately benefits patients." Stanos, the pain physician, said a doctor who gets paid by a pharmaceutical company and prescribes that company's drug might truly and legitimately believe that the drug is the best option for the patient. "I hope physicians that do promotional talks prescribe because they think the medicine has a benefit," he said. But Jena, one of the two Harvard researchers who collaborated on the CNN analysis, said he worries that money from opioid manufacturers -- especially large amounts of money -- could influence a doctor to prescribe opioids over less dangerous options. "Every decision, every recommendation a physician makes, should be in the best interest of the patient and not a combination of the patient's interest and the financial interest of the doctor," said Jena, associate professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School. "If we lived in a different world where none of these payments to physicians occurred, how many fewer Americans would have [been prescribed] opioids, and how many fewer deaths would have occurred?" he asked. From 1999 to 2015, more than 183,000 people in the United States died from overdoses related to prescription opioids, according to the CDC . In October, President Donald Trump declared the opioid epidemic a national public health emergency At least one company has decided to stop paying doctors for promotional activities such as speaking engagements. Purdue Pharma discontinued its speakers program for the opioids OxyContin and Butrans at the end of 2016 and the program for Hysingla, another opioid, in November, according to company spokesman Robert Josephson. "We have restructured and significantly reduced our commercial operation and will no longer be promoting opioids to prescribers," a company statement said. More than $1 million in three years Though Thiyagarajah's opioid prescription rates were particularly high, many other doctors who have prescribed large amounts of opioids have also been paid large amounts of money by pharmaceutical companies that make the drugs. Several patients have filed lawsuits against these high prescribers. From August 2013 through December 2016, Dr. Steven Simon of Overland Park, Kansas, was paid nearly $1.1 million by companies that make opioid painkillers, according to the federal Open Payments database Most of the payments were fees for speaking, training and education. Ballou, one of his patients, says she remembers Simon bragging about how drug companies were flying him across the country to give lectures to other doctors. "He said he was going to Miami, and they were going to give him a convertible, and he was going to stay in the best hotel and eat the best Cuban food he'd ever had," said Ballou, who filed a lawsuit against Simon after she says she became addicted to opioids. Simon's lawyer, James Wyrsch, said he would not comment on pending litigation. In court documents, he asked for the case to be dismissed, saying in part that Ballou's complaints that Simon improperly prescribed Subsys were "simply incorrect." Bridget Patton, a spokeswoman for the FBI's Kansas City field office, said federal agents went to the office where Simon works, Mid-America PolyClinic, in July. The clinic said in a statement that it is "fully and willingly cooperating with all investigations" and that Simon has not been employed there since July 24. "We had a lawful presence at that facility," Patton said. She declined to say whether investigating Simon himself was the purpose of the FBI visit. The owner of the pain clinic, Dr. Srinivas Nalamachu, told The Kansas City Star that the agents showed up with a search warrant for Simon's medical records involving fentanyl prescriptions. Simon and his lawyer told CNN they couldn't comment due to the pending litigation. Ballou said that when she was Simon's patient, it didn't give her pause that the same doctor who was prescribing opioids to her was also taking money from the companies that made the drugs. But now she looks back with anger. A Mother's Day card Angela Cantone's daugher made for her reads, "Best of all mother likes to sleep," alluding to the many instances when Cantone says her opioid medication caused her to pass out. Cantone, the patient who went to Thiyagarajah, the pain specialist in South Carolina, looks back with sadness. She cries as she remembers the Mother's Day card her daughter made her in preschool. The teacher asked each child what their mother liked to do and wrote it on the card. Her card said her mother liked to sleep. "Instead of saying 'she gives me hugs and kisses or takes me to the park,' it was the years of her finding me on the floor," Cantone said. "I feel like I failed as a parent." She becomes angry when she thinks about the hundreds of thousands of dollars her doctor was paid by the drug company. "The medication that was being prescribed to me was for his benefit, not my own," she said.
After vowing for weeks to deliver a fully costed platform, Ontario's Progressive Conservatives on Wednesday quietly released a compilation of their campaign promises without saying how they would pay for them. The updated "Plan for the People," posted on the party's website, lays out how much each initiative is expected to cost but not where the money will come from, nor does it explain the billions in so-called "efficiencies" Tory Leader Doug Ford has promised to find. Ford did not speak about the online document, but his spokeswoman said it was the party's final plan. "We do not know the state of Ontario's finances and anyone who tells you they do is lying to you," Melissa Lantsman said, alluding to the provincial auditor general's finding that the governing Liberals' deficit projections are understated by billions. Lantsman said the Tories would not balance the budget in the first or second year of their term but were committed to getting the books back in the black as quickly as possible. Ford faced increasing criticism for not releasing a full platform earlier in the campaign, with NDP Leader Andrea Horwath and Liberal Premier Kathleen Wynne deeming it disrespectful to voters. Both Horwath and Wynne heaped scorn on the notion that Ford had released a full plan Wednesday. 'It's not coherent': Wynne "Look: This is not a fully costed plan, it's not coherent," Wynne said at a stop in Markham, Ont., where she pushed her government's transit record. "All of the things that Doug Ford has said would add up to a $40-billion hole and they have no idea how they would find that." Horwath was equally jaundiced, saying it wasn't good enough for Ford to write a "list of things he might do and put it on the internet." People should know what Ford's plans are, what he's going to cut and what services might be at risk, the NDP leader said. "His list of things-to-do that he put on his website is not going to help people to decide which way to vote and what's their best interest in this campaign," Horwath said. "What's worrisome is we have a leader who's trying to take the chair of the premier in this province and he's not being honest with people." The Tories began the campaign with a significant lead only to find themselves now battling the NDP for first place in the polls, which also show the Liberals falling further behind both. With the election roughly a week away, Wynne travelled to the heart of her NDP rival's riding on Wednesday to portray herself as the only seasoned stateswoman in the campaign capable of rising above the ideological fray. At a stop in Hamilton outside a Stelco steel plant, she attacked both Horwath and Ford as unyielding ideologues without the experience to fend off the threat of American steel tariffs. "On the one end of the spectrum, you have Doug Ford — he's expressed his admiration for (U.S. President) Donald Trump, despite the chaos, the uncertainty that the Trump administration has caused Ontario," Wynne said. "On the other extreme, you have the NDP, who have historically campaigned against free-trade agreements — I would suggest a rigid and impractical position." The United States has exempted Canadian steel and aluminum from new tariffs on an interim basis. The exemption is due to expire Friday. While the federal government under Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has done much of the heavy lifting to protect the industry in Canada, Wynne played up her own efforts. "Over the past year, I have met with 37 governors, I have met with senators, I've met with congresspeople, I've met with senior members of the U.S. administration, all in an attempt to make it clear what our integrated relationship means to workers on both sides of the border," said Wynne, who has been trailing behind her rivals in recent polls. "We were assertive, we were steadfast in our effort to make Ontario's case to those decision makers. That threat of U.S. protectionism is not going to scare us off." Wynne said Ontario has developed one of the strongest economies in North America under a Liberal government that worked with employees, business leaders, and political leaders on both sides of the Canada-U.S. border. Voters have a choice between her and her two inexperienced rivals, she said. Horwath promises to champion steel "They're going to be choosing a person to lead them who will be in some very tricky, very delicate negotiations with U.S. officials," Wynne said. "That's the reality of the role premier (and) we cannot let ideology get in our way." Horwath, who portrayed herself as a champion of steel and steelworkers, rejected Wynne's comments as "trying to stir up some trouble." She said she had been vocal in her support of the industry. "Should I be given the opportunity to serve as premier I will be one of the biggest champions the steel industry has ever seen," Horwath said. "It has literally, not only built our country and fuelled the economy of a nation, but it has absolutely and completely ... built my city."
Carmen Perez is the Executive Director of The Gathering for Justice, co-founder of Justice League NYC and serves on the board of the Women's March. Follow her on Twitter @msladyjustice1 . Rachel O'Leary Carmona serves as the Chief Operating Officer of the Women's March. Follow her on Twitter @RachCarmona . The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the authors Put pressure on the Democrats to end the horrible law that separates children from there parents once they cross the Border into the U.S. Catch and Release, Lottery and Chain must also go with it and we MUST continue building the WALL! DEMOCRATS ARE PROTECTING MS-13 THUGS. "Put pressure on the Democrats to end the horrible law that separates children from their parents once they cross the border into the U.S. Catch and Release, Lottery and Chain must also go with it and we MUST continue building the WALL! DEMOCRATS ARE PROTECTING MS-13 THUGS." The irony of this is that he was referring to a horrifying practice that is underway in his administration, and that reflects the nation's deep moral crisis. According to a report in the New York Times, since October Immigrations and Customs Enforcement has taken 700 children from their parents or other adult guardians as they attempted to cross the Southwest border into the US. These children included an 18-month old toddler whose mother presented herself to immigration authorities seeking asylum, with the child's birth certificate in her possession. Earlier this month, White House Chief of Staff John Kelly made headlines for not even attempting to mask his contempt for these children, saying those caught by agents "will be taken care of — put into foster care or whatever." harassment, i Both of us, through our work with the Women's March, have seen firsthand the power of women to affect dramatic change. It is up to us now to strike back at the cruel and profoundly racist practices inflicted on Latino immigrants at our borders as well as the ongoing racial profiling mprisonment and worse of Latino women, men and children living in this country. Nelson Mandela observed, "there can be no keener revelation of a society's soul than the way in which it treats its children." Our nation's soul, then, is very sick indeed. But Coretta Scott King also gave us wise words about our power as women to tend to it. "Women, if the soul of the nation is to be saved, I believe we must become its soul." Hostility toward immigrants is not new in this country, but a modern president leading this chorus is. Dehumanizing Latino communities has been Trump's calling card since the first minutes of his presidential campaign, when he called immigrants from Mexico criminals and "rapists." Trump had been amping up this dehumanization over the past weeks, using the word "animals" in speeches and tweets to refer to people affiliated with MS-13, and just days ago, launching a White House web page that uses "animals" no less than 11 times to refer to them. JUST WATCHED Oakland mayor: Won't let bullies in DC deter me Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Oakland mayor: Won't let bullies in DC deter me 02:10 Remember that this is the same president who called white supremacists in Charlottesville, Virginia, "very fine people." At a certain point, the President's repeated use of dehumanizing and hate-filled rhetoric can no longer be seen as situational — aimed only at what he offensively termed during his campaign and early presidency "bad hombres." A logical person would only be able to conclude that his words and policies reflect deeply rooted hatred of Latinos and other marginalized communities. Fearmongering is being used to justify racial profiling and violations of Americans' constitutional rights. Last week, for example, an ICE agent detained and questioned two US citizens in Montana solely because they had spoken to each other in Spanish. US Customs & Border Protection has long had the authority to conduct random and arbitrary stops and searches anywhere within 100 air miles of a US border, including coastal sea borders. This authority, based on a regulation adopted by the Department of Justice in 1953, is an open door for potential abuses in the current climate. Consider that the majority of the American population lives inside this "constitution-free zone," which includes cities like New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia and the entire states of Michigan and Florida. Immigration agents can enter private property, set up permanent highway checkpoints and detain individuals if they suspect an immigration violation. And importantly, they can use race and ethnicity as factors that would create "reasonable suspicion" for them to do so. The women in Montana were buying eggs and milk at a store when they were detained for 35 to 45 minutes by the Border Patrol agent, who told them, "it has to do with you guys speaking Spanish in the store, in a state where it's predominantly English-speaking." JUST WATCHED Border officials change account of shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Border officials change account of shooting 02:21 This treatment of Latinos (and other minority groups) as "the other" must stop. It is up to us women to channel the energy and activism of our movement into local electoral organizing, countering voter suppression and supporting grassroots women and people of color who will protect our community. With so much at stake, we have no choice but to organize and produce concrete wins in 2018. We "become the soul" when we see ourselves in the struggle of other women to protect themselves and protect the vulnerable. We marched precisely because we believe that no woman is free until all women are free. We can't be idle while mothers and fathers have their children ripped away from them, potentially never to be seen again. We can't be idle while children are trafficked out of the foster care system. The racism and white nationalism that has been drawn to the surface by — and indeed, defines -- the Trump administration truly exists everywhere. But so do we. And women must challenge it wherever it exists, from the highest seat of power to local policies and decision-making. Six-year old Sophie Cruz took the stage at the 2017 Women's March on Washington, her parents standing proudly behind her, to deliver a message of hope for the dark days that were ahead. "We are here together making a chain of love, to protect our families. Let us fight with love, faith, and courage so that our families will not be destroyed," she said. May we hold on to those wise words of love as we resist the forces of violence and hatred.
(CNN) Change is afoot at Arsenal Football Club. Arsene Wenger is gone. Long-term defender Per Mertesacker has hung up his boots. Unai Emery has been announced as the new manager and, to top it off, the club has signed a new shirt-sponsorship deal with the central-east African nation Rwanda. The deal between Visit Rwanda and Arsenal is for three years. The three-year deal with the English Premier League club will be its first ever sleeve sponsorship, the Rwanda Development Board (RDB) said in a statement The "Visit Rwanda" logo will be emblazoned on the left sleeve on all first team, Under-23 and Arsenal Women's shirts from the beginning of the new season this summer. "We're thrilled to be partnering with Arsenal and showcasing the vibrancy and beauty of our country," said Clare Akamanzi, CEO of RDB. The deal aims to highlight Rwanda's tourist hotspots, like the national parks, rainforests and wildlife
Arapoema, Brazil (CNN) -- In this small town on the edge of Brazil's somewhat lawless agricultural frontier, streets turn to mud under tropical rains and laundry hangs limp in front of cement-box houses. There's one bank and two churches. But for most folks here, if you want a job, you have to head to one of the nearby cattle ranches - only recently carved out of the steamy Amazon jungle. Luiz Cardoso da Silva, a 69-year-old ranch hand, has worked on half a dozen. But he hopes to never go back. "I want to spend more time here at home, maybe line up a little something close to my family. There would be nothing better than that," says Seu Luiz, as he is known. On a recent Saturday, Seu Luiz and several of his children crowded into their kitchen for plates of rice, beans and fried liver. The women perched on rustic wooden chairs in the one-room house and the men squatted out back. "Anybody who's been in the leopard's mouth is real happy right here," Seu Luiz said. 'Treated like animals' Just three days earlier, Seu Luiz was sleeping on the floor of a cattle corral, surrounded by fetid mud. He and six relatives had been living and working on the ranch for two years, building fences and weeding pastures. There was no bathroom, just a single outdoor spigot to shower and wash clothes and dishes. Nearby bushes served as a toilet. JUST WATCHED Family forced to live with cattle on Brazilian ranch Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family forced to live with cattle on Brazilian ranch 04:59 That's how they were found when an eight-car convoy, lights flashing, pulled into the ranch. One of the Brazilian mobile units tasked with cracking down on worker exploitation across the country was following up on a tip. Marcelo Goncalves Campos, a veteran inspector for the Labor Ministry, shook his head as he took notes. "I've been an inspector for almost 20 years and this is really one of the worst cases I've seen," he said. "They are being treated, without any exaggeration, like animals. Sleeping in the same corral as the cattle." Seu Luiz tells inspectors that they haven't received any money for the last two years. He says the ranch owner provides them with food, deducts it from their wages and claims that they ended up owing him money. "You can't leave because you owe money for the food he's given you, you have a debt." He says he was afraid for the safety of his family if he left. Debt bondage is common in Brazil's lawless cattle country, according to the coordinator of this latest operation, Andre Wagner, also from the Labor Ministry. "You'll see someone working in degrading conditions, with an exhausting work schedule, eating one meal a day, while they don't receive any form of salary or a very small one, because their food and tools are discounted," he says. An uphill fight In fact, more than 50,000 workers have been rescued from what Brazil defines as slave-like conditions since the mobile units were created in 1995. A third of them came from ranches. But it's an uphill fight with roughly 25,000 Brazilians lured into slavery every year, according to the Catholic Pastoral Land Commission, or CPT. They also end up working in coalmines, sugar cane fields, urban construction sites and garment factories. Brazil's resources for fighting exploitation are limited. The number of mobile units - comprised of inspectors, prosecutors and federal police - has fallen to four from eight just a decade ago. "Our method for fighting slavery is good, but we have very few inspectors," says Wagner. "When the complaints are received at our headquarters in Brasilia, we can't go immediately. The delays mean the conditions might have changed." The delays are often five or six months, he says. 'Nobody deserves to live like this' In the case of Seu Luiz, it's a recent tip - just two weeks old. On the day the mobile unit shows up, the ranch owner is nowhere to be found and doesn't answer his phone. That makes it hard for them to secure an immediate payout for workers. But the inspectors gather evidence that can be used in negotiations or an eventual trial, setting up an impromptu office on a patio at the ranch. They log hours of interviews and investigate the owner's assets. Wagner says financial compensation averages about $2,000 for exploited workers but when the conditions are extreme, it can be 10 times that. The first priority, however, is removing the family from the ranch. JUST WATCHED Family rescued from slavery in the Amazon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family rescued from slavery in the Amazon 04:12 Maria Dalva Sousa, 18, had been living with her husband and toddler son in a shack on the edge of the corral. "I just want to get out of here, nobody deserves to live like this," she says. "Look at this mud, only rats can sleep in a place like this." Together, they all roll up a couple of foam mattresses, stuff clothes into cardboard boxes and load a stove onto the back of a police pick-up truck. After two years of grinding work on the ranch, these are their few possessions of value. The tiny bedroom where Maria Dalva Sousa slept with her husband and child. Cattle country In northern Brazil, cattle roam the rolling pastures. Huge swaths of the Amazon rainforest were cut down to create these ranches. At first, farmers were encouraged by the government to settle the land. Then they seized more territory illegally. The famous grass-fed beef produced on these ranches is a staple at home and an important export for Brazil, accounting for $4.35 billion in revenues in 2016. Few consumers suspect that extreme labor exploitation is an ingrained part of this culture. But Xavier Plassat, a French Dominican friar, has dedicated his life to fighting what he calls modern-day slavery in the region. "The main point about slavery is that someone wants to make a profit with zero cost," he says. "Here, more than anywhere, it is easy to make a profit with zero cost. You are on the frontier of farming, of ranching." JUST WATCHED Friar battles labor explotation in Brazil Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Friar battles labor explotation in Brazil 04:31 Plassat, 66, works with the Pastoral Land Commission, coordinating their national campaign against labor exploitation. He has a network of agents and informants who talk to ranch-hands and send reports of labor abuses to federal authorities. Initially, their tips lead to about a quarter of the mobile unit raids. This has gotten some of the church activists killed - most notably Dorothy Stang, the American-born nun who was shot and killed in 2005. "I don't say we want to be martyrs," Plassat says. "But we try to be present to share the suffering and help the workers." French Dominican friar Xavier Plassat. 'Impunity, greed, vulnerability, misery' Plassat shows us a safe house run by the Pastoral Commission where workers who have been rescued by the mobile units can eat and sleep while they fight for compensation. He says conditions have improved in the region, but says modern-day slavery is far from being eradicated. "Slavery is a system and it has several roots: impunity, greed, vulnerability, misery. If you don't address all of it at the same time you will probably have the same persons coming back to the same cycle of enslavement," he says. He is concerned that Brazil could actually be sliding backwards on the issue. An increasingly powerful rural lobby in the national congress has pushed to relax the country's very broad definition of slave labor while the resources to fight it have shrunk. One of the main tools used to shame employers into compliance has also been undermined - every year the Labor Ministry publishes a "Dirty List" of companies caught exploiting workers. But recently, its publication has been repeatedly blocked or delayed. Return to slavery? For Seu Luiz, good news finally comes. The ranch owner's family has agreed to pay the equivalent of $38,000 in back wages and penalties for pain and suffering - to be divided among the seven workers. Seu Luiz says he'll use it to move out of the one-room house he rents and finally buy a home of his own. Something he hopes will protect his children in the future. In the meantime, a federal prosecutor has filed criminal charges against the ranch owner. Those charges are currently being reviewed by a judge. Andre Wagner, coordinator of the Ministry of Labor's Special Mobile Unit operation in Tocantins For Wagner, the raid was a success. But he says you can never really be sure that you've saved someone. "It's possible Sue Luiz won't return to these working conditions," he says. "But it's also possible he will. Given his age and his limited professional qualifications, he will continue to be a potential victim of slave labor."
(CNN) ABC has pulled the plug on "Roseanne," but the family at the show's center may have more life ahead. The network canceled "Roseanne" on Tuesday after Barr went on a Twitter rant in which she made racist comments. Barr later apologized and indicated she believes her behavior was influenced by the sleep aid Ambien News of the show's cancellation came on the same day "Roseanne" writers were returning to work to begin crafting the next season. For now, some 200-plus "Roseanne" staffers are set to lose their jobs. But reviving the revival -- with cast members like John Goodman and Laurie Metcalf -- would help some cast and crew avoid the unemployment ranks. haha YES! #lauriemetcalf #ilovelauriemetcalf A post shared by Jim Parsons (@therealjimparsons) on May 29, 2018 at 3:14pm PDT Since news of the show's cancellation, "Roseanne" fans have circulated mock posters featuring Metcalf's Jackie at the forefront. On his ABC late-night program, Jimmy Kimmel imagined a version of the series simply titled, "Dan." These ideas are not entirely far-fetched. Plus, "Roseanne" has killed off cast members before -- Goodman's Dan Conner was revealed to have died in the original series finale -- so why not kill off the matriarch? When asked about this, a well-placed source left the door wide open. It is "too soon" to talk about resuscitating the family sitcom, the source told CNN, but "there will be a time to sit down and look at all the options." Meaning, the Conner family could be back on TV -- even if Barr won't be. Legally, much of the decision-making power is in the hands of the show's current production company, Carsey-Werner. In a typical broadcast television deal, a production company will retain ownership of a TV show and license it to the network, in this case ABC. Under this model, Carsey-Werner -- best known for producing a string of television hits like "The Cosby Show," "3rd Rock From the Sun," and "Grace Under Fire" -- would contractually have the most say in a future for the Conner family. "In terms of, can they now turn around and sell it to someone else, can they do that without Roseanne [Barr] in it, well, if the contracts gave them all that power, yeah," Corey Field, an adjunct Professor at USC Gould School of Law and author of "Entertainment Law Fundamentals and Practice," told CNN. On social media, some dejected "Roseanne" viewers have called on Fox and other content providers to pick up the series. At this point, however, it seems clear that any future iteration wouldn't include its namesake, and talk of moving to another network is premature. Different sources had different assessments of how likely or unlikely a re-reboot is. One source with knowledge of ABC's current thinking told CNN there was "zero" chance a version of "Roseanne" would be resurrected at the network. Another source sounded more open to the possibility. In an email to staff Wednesday, Disney-ABC TV Group chief Ben Sherwood praised the show's team and wished them well. He said he hoped "to find another way to work together down the road." But for now, the staffers are out of work. After "Roseanne's" cancellation, executive producer Tom Werner said in a statement, "I support ABC's decision to cancel the show in the wake of Roseanne Barr's most recent reprehensible tweets." In an email to staff Wednesday, Disney-ABC TV Group chief Ben Sherwood praised the show's team and said he hoped "to find another way to work together down the road." After "Roseanne's" cancellation, executive producer Tom Werner said in a statement, "I support ABC's decision to cancel the show in the wake of Roseanne Barr's most recent reprehensible tweets." "Our goal was to promote constructive discussion about the issues that divide us. It represented the work of hundreds of talented people," he said. "I hope the good work done is not totally eclipsed by these abhorrent and offensive comments, and that Roseanne seeks the help she so clearly needs." Barr herself seems to have made peace with the fact that her return to TV is an unlikely scenario. im not getting my job back, genius-it's gone and so r all my old shows. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 30, 2018 "I'm not getting my job back, genius," she told one commenter on Twitter. David E. Johnson, CEO of Strategic Vision PR Group, agrees. "The risks are far too great," Johnson told CNN. "Her comments, especially in this politically charged environment, make the cost of employing her impossible for any network. The damage that would be done to any network by even thinking about bringing her on would be immeasurable and would generate a backlash unlike anything we have seen." Should "Roseanne" or the Conner family live on in some form -- whether at ABC or another network -- Barr will join the ranks of an elite club of TV stars who've been fired from shows on which they starred, only to have it continue without them. Charlie Sheen is in some ways the closest comparison because though his name was not part of the show's title, he played one of the titular characters on CBS's "Two and a Half Men." Depending on her deal, however, Barr could stand to make money from a future version of the series, Field said. Barr is often credited as a co-creator; though, Werner has said the concept was formed before Barr originally boarded the project. "I would assume given how successful she was -- at least in the first iteration of the show, Season 1 -- that she probably had a pretty great deal," Field said. CNN's Megan Thomas, Brian Lowry, Jamie Gangel contributed to this report.
The Delhi Police on Monday, while urging a special court to take cognizance of its chargesheet in the Sunanda Pushkar case, read out her last email to her husband Shashi Tharoor before the court. According to Indian Express, Additional Public Prosecutor Atul Srivastava read out the email, sent to Tharoor nine days before her death, where Pushkar had written a poem. The report quoted the email as saying, "I don't care about the tests. I have no will to live. All I pray is death." Tharoor was named in the chargesheet filed by the Delhi police before the court on May 14. He has been charged with cruelty and abetment of suicide. While hearing the plea of the Delhi police, the court said it the next hearing of the case would be on June 5 where it would decide whether to take congnizance of the chargesheet. NDTV reported that the police also told court that Pushkar had died due to poisoning and 27 Alprax tablets were found in her room. The report also quoted the chargesheet saying Tharoor ignored Pushkar as she was slipping into depression and she had Alprax. Pushkar was said to be ill at the time of her death. News18 quoted Srivastava as saying, "Sunanda Pushkar had ante mortem injuries (injuries from before death) on her body which is reflected on her post mortem too. When she was hospitalized, she had high fever and cannula." When the chargesheet was filed earlier this month, Tharoor had dismissed the police reports saying, "I have taken note of the filing of this preposterous charge sheet and intend to contest it vigorously. No one who knew Sunanda believes she would ever have committed suicide, let alone abetment on my part. If this is conclusion arrived at after four plus years of investigation." He also said, "It does not speak well of the methods or motivations of the Delhi Police. In October 17, the Law Officer made a statement in the Delhi High Court that they have not found anything against anyone and now in 6 months they say that I have abetted a suicide. Unbelievable!" Pushkar was found dead under mysterious circumstances at the Leela Hotel in Delhi on January 17, 2014.
(CNN) Rights groups have slammed a "smear campaign" against Saudi women's rights activists who were arrested last week and accused of treason by local media outlets close to the Saudi government. Several Saudi media organizations named the detainees and accused them of plotting to "violate national unity," while one online newspaper showed pictures of the activists with the word "traitor" stamped on each of their faces. The official Saudi Press Agency did not name the seven detainees but said they were accused of "suspicious contact with foreign entities to support their activities, recruiting some persons in charge of sensitive government positions, and providing financial support to hostile elements outside the country." Those detained attempted to "breach (Saudi) social structure and mar the national consistency," SPA reported, quoting a state security source. Saudi daily Al Jazirah's front page on Saturday ran with the headline: "You are damned and your treason is damned." The pictures of two prominent women's rights activists, Aziza al-Yousef and Loujain al-Hathloul, featured underneath. A screengrab from a video released by Loujain al-Hathloul shows her driving towards the Saudi-UAE border before an earlier arrest on December 1, 2014 in Saudi Arabia. The semi-official Okaz newspaper ran a report of the arrests with the headline: "No place for traitors among us." The reports have sparked an outcry from rights groups and activists. "Saudi Arabian authorities and government-aligned media launched a public smear campaign last night to try to discredit six prominent detained women's rights defenders as 'traitors' following their arrest this week," Amnesty International said in a statement on Saturday. The name of the seventh activist detained has not emerged in the media. "Saudi Arabian authorities cannot continue to publicly state they are dedicated to reform, while treating women's rights campaigners in this cruel way," said Amnesty International's Middle East Director of Campaigns Samah Hadid in a statement to CNN on Monday. A flyer circulating on social media in Saudi Arabia shows activists with a traitor stamp over each of their faces. Some of those arrested were leading campaigners for women's right to drive in the kingdom. Loujain al-Hathloul, one of the activists arrested, is a well-known defender of women's rights and has campaigned against the driving ban. She was previously detained in the United Arab Emirates in March and deported to Saudi Arabia, where she was held for a few days before being released, according to a source familiar with the case. Ahead of lifting of driving ban on women, 7 female activists have been arrested, inc #OYW Ambassador @LoujainHathloul (👇 w/ @fbhutto, Mary Robinson & @KensingtonRoyal's Meghan Markle) . 🗣 We call for her immediate release. RT #FreeLoujain @amnesty 👉https://t.co/QGBG9DgBUb pic.twitter.com/pUEDxK3arP — One Young World (@OneYoungWorld) May 21, 2018 She was photographed alongside Meghan Markle, the new wife of Britain's Prince Harry, at a summit in Canada in 2016. Aziza al-Yousef, another detainee named by rights groups and local media, is also a well-known campaigner for women's right to drive and for an end to the kingdom's male guardianship system. The arrests came just over a month before Saudi Arabia was set to lift a ban on women drivers. The May 19 front page of Saudi's Al-Jazirah daily shows pictures of the arrested activists, describing them as traitors. The ban's removal was hailed as part of sweeping reforms introduced by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in his rapid rise to power. But some Saudis argue that that the reforms have been largely "cosmetic," and that the crackdown on human rights defenders are part of a wider campaign to consolidate power in the kingdom. "(The arrests) have exposed the myth that Mohammed bin Salman is a revolutionary conducting a top-down transformation of Saudi Arabia," said Madawi al-Rasheed, a Saudi visiting professor at the London School of Economics. "There is an ongoing campaign to silence everybody in Saudi Arabia from religious scholars to intellectuals, lawyers, activists, teachers, women, men: everybody." Saudi authorities did not respond to CNN's requests for comment. Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May greets Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman outside 10 Downing Street. The 32-year-old was elevated to Crown Prince nearly one year ago, and is seen by his detractors as a royal who has tried to expand his powers and doubled down on dissent. Last November, the young Crown Prince shocked the kingdom by ordering the arrest of dozens of high-profile businessmen and members of the royal family in what Saudi authorities called an anti-corruption drive 'Climate of fear' Activists say the media campaigns against human rights defenders represents an "escalation" against activists that has promoted a "climate of fear." "We are back to square one," Sydney-based Saudi activist and author Manal al-Sharif told CNN. "We used to live in a police state; if you speak up you go to jail. And then there would be a defamation campaign against you, saying all sort of untrue things. Character assassination. We are seeing that same pattern again now," she added. Sharif told CNN that after Saudi authorities announced plans to allow women to drive, they called her and asked her not to speak to the media about it. Aziza al-Yousef drives a car on a highway in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, as part of a campaign to defy Saudi Arabia's ban on women driving. "This is really, really shocking. I had much hope for the country," Sharif said. She said she had canceled an upcoming trip to Saudi Arabia out of fear for her safety. The events have also prompted criticism from high-profile Saudis that have praised the Crown Prince's reform agenda in the past. Ali Shihabi, the Saudi founder of the Washington-based Arabia Foundation, tweeted Monday: "This case has been handled by the Saudi authorities in an unfortunate manner. Such serious accusations should be accompanied by much more information to give credence to any accusations. Hopefully this will be forthcoming as soon as possible." In the meantime, international human rights activists say they have taken it upon themselves to buoy Saudi activist causes. "As the Saudi Crown Prince tours the world presenting himself as a 'reformer,' he is arresting the women's rights activists who refuse to accept his tokenism, leaving it to us to make their voices heard," Kenneth Roth, executive director at Human Rights Watch, wrote in a tweet. "We're expecting more arrested because the state says the campaign is ongoing ... it's clear that they want to end the rights situation in Saudi Arabia completely," said Yahya Assiri, a London-based Saudi activist.
The supermodel, whose curves have broken barriers across the fashion world, just launched a new swimwear line with size-inclusive retailer Swimsuits For All , but with one really unique twist. Unlike past campaigns, this collection features unedited and unretouched paparazzi photos of Graham wearing the new suits. The campaign is called “Power of Paparazzi.” Just when you thought Ashley Graham couldn’t get any more real, she proves us wrong. A post shared by Swimsuits For All (@swimsuitsforall) on May 1, 2018 at 7:30am PDT “This campaign is different than any other I have worked on throughout my entire career,” Graham says. “I hope these images instill a fearless belief in everyone to be happy in their own skin and enjoy living in the moment, no matter who is watching.” The stunning nine-piece collection is inspired by the art deco style of the 1920s, and includes gorgeous beach-ready pieces like the Ritzy swimsuit with leaf applique and gold stitching, and the Whoopee bikini with braided details and gold beading. All pieces are carried in sizes 4 to 22, and retail from $102-$120. Below, check out our favorites from the collection:
(CNN) A Pennsylvania woman's visit to the New Jersey Shore on Memorial Day weekend ended in handcuffs after an encounter with police turned violent. A video posted to social media Saturday -- and since viewed more than 3.6 million times -- shows three Wildwood police officers on the beach, attempting to detain a woman later identified in a police statement as Emily Weinman, 20, of Philadelphia. As the video begins, Weinman is on the ground, with one officer on top of her. She kicks at another, knocking aside a beach chair. The first officer then proceeds to hit her in the head twice with his fist, before grabbing her by the shoulders and pinning her to the ground. As the second officer holds her legs steady, a third approaches to control the gathering crowd. The first two officers then attempt to handcuff Weinman. A child can be heard crying in the background. Someone is heard repeatedly saying, "Stop resisting." "You're not allowed to hit me and choke me like that," Weinman shouts. "I didn't do anything wrong." The video shows the altercation already underway, with no indication of how it began. It ends before police have clearly detained Weinman. New body camera footage released Wednesday by the Wildwood Police Department shows what happened before Weinman's arrest. Body camera footage released Police released three body camera footage videos of the incident. The department said in a news release that the incident is "still under investigation," but it wanted to release the footage to ensure "transparency with the public." The first two videos show the interaction between Weinman and the officers before her arrest. In the first video, the officer asks Weinman who the unopened containers of alcohol belong to. Weinman responds, "They're my aunt's," and says that her aunt, who is not visible in the video, is on her way back. The officer then makes Weinman and her friend take a Breathalyzer test. After the test, Weinman walks away on the phone, and the officer says, "Go grab her real quick, and we're gonna have them pour that all out." Weinman argues with the officers in the second video, saying she is allowed to carry alcohol, and it is not illegal because the containers are not open. The conversation gets heated. Weinman repeatedly refuses to give the officer her last name, and the officer says, "OK, that's it, I'm done with you," and moves toward her. Weinman walks away yelling, "Don't f***ing touch me." With two hands facing forward toward the officer, she shoves him before the second video ends abruptly. The third video shows the altercation as the officer attempts to put handcuffs on Weinman. This footage is similar to the initial video shared on social media. An internal investigation has been launched into the officers' conduct, according to a statement issued Sunday by the Wildwood Police Department. In the meantime, the officers involved in the incident have been reassigned to administrative duty. "It's unfortunate all the way around," said Wildwood Mayor Ernie Troiano Jr. "They [police officers] were on the beach most of the day writing tickets to underage drinkers with no problems. ... She escalated it to where it went." Weinman charged Weinman was charged with two counts of aggravated assault on a police officer, aggravated assault by spitting at a police officer, disorderly conduct, resisting arrest, obstruction and with being a minor in possession of alcohol, according to a statement from the Wildwood Police Department. "You had a situation which was really a non-event," said Stephen Dicht, Weinman's attorney. "She passed a Breathalyzer, she wasn't drinking, and you know, they just wouldn't let it go. ... They are trained to defuse situations, not make them worse." Weinman could not immediately be reached for comment. In a Facebook post written over the weekend, and since taken down, Weinman said she had unopened alcohol with her when she was stopped by police while visiting the beach with her daughter, her daughter's father, and a friend. Weinman said she passed the Breathalyzer test police administered after asking for her age. According to the post, an officer followed her after the encounter. "I asked them don't they have something better to do as cops than to stop people for underage drinking on the beach," she wrote. "The cop said, 'I was gonna let you go but now I'll write you up.' " The officer asked Weinman for her name, which she refused to give, according to the post. She said the officer then informed her he was arresting her. "I tripped and fell and the cop tackled me to the ground and smashed my head into the sand," she wrote. "At that point I blacked out and fought any way possible trying to get up and push him off me." "Yes, I know I should've gave him my name," she continued. "I was partly wrong in a way but I was scared."
No one really goes into pregnancy thinking their body will escape completely unscathed, right? By now we're all fairly well-read about the possibility of vaginal tearing, incontinence, stretch marks, abdominal separation, hair loss, cracked nipples and sagging breasts that can come after carrying, birthing, and feeding a human baby. It's just such a magical time! But while many women may be expecting some bodily changes, especially down below, they might want to prepare themselves for troubles a little bit lower ... We're talking 'bout butts Up to 35 per cent of pregnant women suffer from hemorrhoids, which are swollen veins in the rectum or anus, and as pleasant as they sound. One study found that, in some populations, up to 85 per cent of pregnancies are affected by the burning, painful, bloody butt menaces. "Almost all women have hemorrhoids during pregnancy to a greater or lesser degree," Dr. Mary Jane Minkin, a clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Yale University, told The Bump. "Hemorrhoids can range in size from as small as a raisin to as large as a grape. They can be merely itchy or downright painful and may even cause rectal bleeding, especially when you have a bowel movement," BabyCenter noted. The Bump explains that a perfect storm of pregnancy-related side effects triggers them: constipation that causes straining, higher progesterone levels that can cause the blood vessels to swell, increased blood volume that just makes the veins more swollen in general, and the weight of the baby in the uterus that can push those suckers right out. In through the nose. Out through the mouth. Cool, cool. No one wants to talk about hemorrhoids. Probably because they're gross. For something that's so common, people don't really talk about pregnancy hemorrhoids the same way they do about morning sickness or needing adult diapers after childbirth. And many women aren't prepared for the reality of reaching around their backside to see what's hurting so much and touching what feels like a small bushel of grapes. "The pain started when I was eight weeks pregnant with my second child. I was totally clueless as to what was going on with my anal area in the beginning. I thought only old people got hemorrhoids. Wrong," Atlanta mom Sarah Hosseini wrote in Cosmopolitan. "When you read about hemorrhoids, you think, It won't happen to me," Brampton, Ont. mom Callie Brenshaw (which is a psuedonym) told Today's Parent. "When you're pregnant, you'll hear plenty about the common discomforts of pregnancy like nausea, fatigue, and heartburn. You'll be reassured that it's OK to be scared about labour and delivery because everything will be fine. One thing you won't hear about? Hemorrhoids," mom Kimmie Fink wrote in Romper. "Maybe it's because most people are too prim and proper to talk about buttholes." Childbirth doesn't exactly help So, you know how straining due to constipated poop can trigger hemorrhoids? Imagine what pushing out a baby can do. "I've seen things." "After having a baby — especially after a vaginal delivery — many women develop hemorrhoids," the University of Rochester Medical Center's Obstetrics Division writes on its website. And Baby Center adds that about 25 per cent of women who get hemorrhoids after giving birth STILL HAVE THEM SIX MONTHS LATER. Come on! Haven't our undercarriages been through enough? What to do if you get hemorrhoids during pregnancy or childbirth Although The Bump points out that hemorrhoids are permanent, all hope is not lost. Some women feel no symptoms from them at all, but if you do, you can treat them with: Ice packs Sitz baths Witch hazel pads Baking soda Over-the-counter medications Avoiding constipation with a high-fibre diet, plenty of water, and exercise A doctor can prescribe a stool softener, the University of Rochester Medical Center's Obstetrics Division adds. If symptoms don't go away after a few days, consult your healthcare provider, they noted. In the meantime, take solace in the fact that you have grown a human life, and that basically makes you a warrior. Even if it's a pain in the butt. Also on HuffPost:
White Privilege: (noun). The fact of people with white skin having advantages in society that other people do not have. Monday afternoon in downtown Washington, D.C., and every one of the overhead office televisions is leading with NFL franchises responding to the 45th president of the United States, who called anthem-protesting players “sons of bitches” last week and implored owners to tell these kneeling men, reality TV-style, “You’re fired!” Then Gregg Popovich’s cloudy-white visage filled the screen, making me feel like crap. “We still have no clue of what being born white means,” the coach of the San Antonio Spurs said in the middle of a three-minute, Check Your Privilege, Mr. President, scolding. “It’s like you’re at the 50-meter mark in a 100-meter dash. And you’ve got that kind of a lead because, yes, you were born white. You have advantages that are systemically, culturally, psychologically there. And they have been built up and cemented for hundreds of years.” My colleagues, almost all of whom are black, nodded approvingly because Pop “gets it,” and some vowed to become Spurs fans simply because of his comments. I did the same. But I also had this pang gnawing at me all day and into the night. The truth: Many well-intentioned white people I know lose their minds when they hear about their “white privilege.” It’s not that we haven’t acknowledged our ancestors’ original sin — the dehumanization of a people, manifested in tragically being able to call another human being “property.” We have. But fully accepting that the color of our skin benefits us today is often too much to unpack. When we hear, “Check your privilege,” we feel ostracized from the people we thought shared the common purpose of equality with us. Further, if we are directly confronting racism in our online and physical worlds, we don’t want to hear, “Thanks, but there is no extra credit for doing what is right.” We want an impossible validation: to be told that, unlike those Confederate-lovin’ nationalists in Charlottesville, Virginia, we don’t have white privilege. And that gets to dissecting the meaning of privilege — separating the feelings of personal slight from a systemic inequity. Which is flat-out hard. We either a) don’t believe it; b) don’t think we are participants in it; or c) will engage to a point but ultimately decide, “I’m sorry, I don’t share this outlook on the world.” It was only after hearing Popovich that I realized that we who continue to bullheadedly think that way represent a real obstacle toward achieving this elusive better place we always talk about. Look, this isn’t something Colin Kaepernick or Michael Bennett can fix alone, just as Tommie Smith and John Carlos couldn’t fix it in 1968. This isn’t something any person of color can change by himself. This is a difficult white-person-to-white-person conversation that has to happen between white men and women of all classes for any lasting change to occur. Black and brown people already know this. It’s not news to them that we have advantages bestowed at birth that they don’t. If you can’t accept that white people have it easier, then you will never accept why someone would kneel during the national anthem. And until those two are reconciled, we shouldn’t expect people to stand — especially those most adversely affected by society’s unfair constructs. We want an impossible validation: to be told that, unlike those Confederate-lovin’ nationalists in Charlottesville, Virginia, we don’t have white privilege. The display of unity on Sunday, with some NFL owners linking arms with their players, was indeed an act of togetherness. But it was in response to the president crudely calling out their employees — not black men being killed by police. They were standing up for the NFL, not human rights. If Sunday was it, all they did was participate in a photo op that made everyone feel good. We don’t need to feel good right now; we need to feel uncomfortable. It’s a process. For one, hearing we have “white privilege” feels like it carries a stigma, as if we have been branded “racist” and don’t know why. It’s almost like a virus one needs to be inoculated from at a CVS pharmacy each fall. But, of course, it doesn’t work like that. We don’t have a disease — society does. Author and consultant Frances E. Kendall’s 2002 essay Understanding White Privilege put it this way: “For me, the confusion and pain of this knowledge is somewhat eased by reminding myself that this system is not based on each individual white person’s intention to harm but on our racial group’s determination to preserve what we believe is rightly ours. This distinction is, on one hand, important, and, on the other hand, not important at all because, regardless of personal intent, the impact is the same.” Weekly water cooler fodder: The Week That Was Newsletter No. Just. No. Enter a real email and try again. Success! Your inbox thanks you 🙏🏾 🎉 In other words, hearing you have “white privilege” shouldn’t carry an ounce of baggage, even if the language feels accusatory. I know it took me a while to get there. I have, for much of my life, failed to acknowledge that privilege. I rationalized that I did not have it because my papa-was-a-rolling-stone father moved us to a rural area of Hawaii when I was 12 — and I faced ugly prejudice for being white. (Everyone, by the way, should be on the other side of the fence at least once in their life to see what it’s like.) Given my own life circumstances, I reasoned it didn’t apply to me, that my own broken-home, abusive childhood didn’t involve any suburban cul-de-sacs or regular visits to the dentist, so what do I know about privilege? But when you begin to think deeply about your own life experiences compared with your friends of color, it’s harder to dismiss. I’ve never had to educate my young sons to be aware of systemic racism for their own daily physical protection, to warn them of law enforcement officers who might not give them the benefit of the doubt. I’ve never applied for a home loan and suspected that I was turned down because some of my prospective neighbors only want to live next to and around people who look and think like them. Privilege is when a deranged racist murders multiple black worshippers at a church Bible study and, upon seeing the race of the individual who did it, you did not have to say to your friend, “Damn, now they’re going to think all of us white folk are racist killers.” The biggest benefit of being white: Our problems are far less likely to be attributed to some racial/cultural failure. Our government will hear our cries and not tell us to get over it but rather, in point of fact, ask us how it can help (even if the help doesn’t always come). If Popovich is honest, white privilege is what allows him to make those statements in the first place. Meanwhile, coach Mike Tomlin, who’s never had a losing season, has been to two Super Bowls, won one and has guided the Pittsburgh Steelers to more wins the past decade than any team except the Green Bay Packers and New England Patriots, is walking a tightrope at this minute, trying to keep his protest-torn team together while not being shunned by his boss and the team’s customers. “People get bored. ‘Oh, is it that again? They’re pulling the race card again, why do we have to talk about that again?’ ” Popovich said. “Well, it’s because it’s uncomfortable and there has to be an uncomfortable element in the discourse for anything to change. People have to be made to feel uncomfortable, and especially white people — because we are comfortable.” I don’t like hearing this. It forces me to confront truths I don’t necessarily want to accept, because I don’t remember any breaks given me or job opportunities offered because of my complexion. But I’d be in denial to not believe that in numerous situations my race has helped me — in ways I never even notice. Popovich’s statements are a piece of a conversation between white people that needs to happen more frequently. Whether there are enough people who look like me willing to engage in that conversation is an open question. At least this week, though, his gruffness and often-annoying certainty about everything turned out to be good for more than just lighting a fire under Tim Duncan’s tush: “Many people can’t look at it because it’s too difficult. It can’t be something that is on their plate on a daily basis,” he said. “People want to hold their position. People want the status quo. People don’t want to give that up. And until it’s given up, it’s not going to be fixed.” Anyone else white want to take a stab at it? It’s the only way the work of everyone from Muhammad Ali to Colin Kaepernick will ever get done.
Eggs are a great part of a balanced diet as they’re jam-packed with protein, vitamin D vitamin A, vitamin B2, vitamin B12, folate and iodine. However, the way we prepare them can have an impact on how healthy they are overall. How do you like your eggs in the morning? If you want them to be healthy, the answer probably shouldn’t be fried. First you need to decide how many you want to eat. According to Charlotte Stirling-Reed, registered nutrition consultant and co-founder of LittleFoodie.org, the rules surrounding how many eggs it’s safe for people to eat have caused confusion for the public over the years. “Previously there were limits on how many eggs should be eaten a day. This is mainly due to the fact that eggs contain cholesterol and ‘high cholesterol’ in the blood is often linked to heart disease,” she explains. “However, the cholesterol we eat in the diet doesn’t actually impact on our levels of cholesterol in the body and therefore there isn’t necessarily a limit to how many eggs we should eat each week. The most important thing is that we ensure variety in the diet and so opt for a variety of protein sources, including eggs.” So what about the actual method of cooking? While there is some evidence to suggest the cooking method may cause some nutrient losses or increases, Stirling-Reed says these effects are “fairly minimal”. “A more important concept is actually what we serve our eggs with,” she says. For example, frying with lashings of oil is likely to add extra fat and calories. In fact, the NHS says this method can increase an egg’s fat content by around 50%, so fried eggs should definitely be reserved as a treat. Regularly making scrambled eggs with large amounts of butter can also be bad news for health. “But if you’re eating scrambled egg and using just milk - not oil or butter - then you’re likely to also be adding in extra nutrients,” Stirling-Reed says. Your safest bet if you’re trying to keep eggs healthy is to boil or poach them, without added salt. There is little health difference between these two methods, but Stirling-Reed is a fan of boiled. “They are perfect for eating on the go or for food for babies,” she says. Happy cooking!
It’s been well-established that no one can bend it like David Beckham, but who knew no one could hug quite like him either? The former footballer rang in his 43rd birthday on Wednesday with a surprise appearance from his oldest son, Brooklyn. The family was out celebrating at a London restaurant when the 19-year-old snuck up behind his father in a video shared on both David and wife Victoria Beckham’s Instagram accounts. David became instantly emotional, tearing up as his son pulled him in for a sweet embrace. “What are you doing here?” a clearly overwhelmed David said in the video after giving him a kiss on the cheek. “I missed you so much.”
(CNN) Saudi Arabia released video purporting to show Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at a meeting on Tuesday amid recent speculation about his whereabouts. The kingdom provided CNN with video that it said showed the crown prince chairing a Council of Economic Affairs and Development meeting in Jeddah on May 29. State-run television aired video of the same meeting. CNN is unable to verify when the video was shot. The video was released amid speculation about the crown prince's well-being following reports of gunfire near the royal palaces in Riyadh on April 21. Saudi authorities said this footage depicted a cabinet meeting led by the crown prince on Tuesday. State-run SPA media said at the time that an unauthorized, recreational drone flew over the area, prompting security personnel to deal with the situation in an unspecified manner. Social media videos seemed to show an attempt at shooting down the drone. Read More
Beirut, Lebanon (CNN) Lebanon's Saad Hariri has won a new term as Prime Minister after securing support from the vast majority of lawmakers in the country's new Parliament, Lebanese President Michel Aoun announced Thursday. Hariri received backing from 111 politicians in the 128-seat Parliament, up from 80 in his previous election, according to Lebanon's official news agency. All major parliamentary blocs supported him, except for Hezbollah, the Shiite Muslim group supported by Iran, which abstained. The Saudi-backed Hariri is set to become premier for a third time. He faces the difficult task of forming a Cabinet in the aftermath of a parliamentary election that saw political opposition Hezbollah make gains , and his own bloc lose nearly a third of its seats. Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah called the results a "great moral and political victory." "Everyone seriously intends to facilitate the formation of a government. What unites us is greater than what divides us," Hariri said from Lebanon's presidential palace after being formally tasked with the formation of a new Cabinet. Read More
(CNN) A president with low approval ratings. Tensions between the US and North Korea. Athletes protesting racial injustice. Bitter divisions threatening to rip our country's social fabric apart. Sound familiar? But we're not talking about 2018. All this happened 50 years ago, in 1968. Echoes of that year, considered by many the most turbulent in modern US history, can be found in today's headlines about President Trump, social protests and shocking acts of gun violence. Our country has changed immensely -- the internet, a black president, same-sex marriage -- since then. And yet, some things feel eerily similar. "Yes, it's a continuation," says Charles Kaiser, author of " 1968 in America: Music, Politics, Chaos, Counterculture, and the Shaping of a Generation ," about parallels between 1968 and now. "We're certainly still fighting many of the same battles." Here are five of them. Our embattled president was warring with the media President Lyndon B. Johnson on the phone in the Oval Office in January 1968. Lyndon B. Johnson, thrust into the presidency after the assassination of John F. Kennedy, enjoyed widespread support during his first years in office. But by the summer of 1968, his approval rating had plummeted to 35% The main reason was the war in Vietnam, which was going increasingly poorly. The North Vietnamese's Tet Offensive earlier that year had dashed any hopes for a swift end to the war. Americans' appetite for the conflict was waning, and anti-war protesters filled the streets of US cities. Caught between hawks who urged him to send more troops to Vietnam and doves who wanted him to pull out, LBJ trod a middle path that pleased almost no one. A fractured Democratic Party turned against him. He also faced an increasingly hostile press corps who suspected he wasn't being candid about what was happening on the ground in Vietnam. In March, Johnson stunned the nation by saying he would not seek re-election. Fast forward to today, and while we're not at war, you see some similarities with President Trump. His approval ratings have mostly hovered under 40%, although they have ticked up lately. Meanwhile, he's faced vociferous protests from women, students and intellectuals -- three groups that also opposed LBJ. We were locked in a tense war of words with North Korea Crew from the USS Pueblo being captured by North Korea on January 23, 1968. Trump spent much of his first year mocking North Korean leader Kim Jong Un on Twitter, calling him "Little Rocket Man" and urging then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson not to negotiate with the totalitarian nation. Meanwhile, North Korea launched dozens of test missiles into the ocean and made vague threats about topping long-range missiles with nuclear warheads. Tensions between the two countries peaked in January, when Trump warned Kim about US nuclear capabilities and boasted of his "much bigger & more powerful" nuclear button . The inflamed rhetoric alarmed many Americans who feared it would lead to a nuclear attack. Things have calmed down since then, and the two leaders are tentatively set to meet next month in Singapore amid indications that North Korea may scale down its nuclear weapons program. North Korean soldiers watch a 2017 military parade in Pyongyang marking the 105th anniversary of the birth of the late leader Kim Il-Sung. But in 1968, an equally frightening episode brought the two countries to the brink of war. On January 23 that year the USS Pueblo, a Navy intelligence vessel, was seized by North Korea , which accused the vessel of illegally spying in North Korean territorial waters. Its 83-man crew was transported to Pyongyang, imprisoned and tortured by interrogators who demanded they sign "confessions." After 11 months of delicate negotiations, the seamen were freed that December. But classified documents show tensions between the countries got so high that US military leaders drafted a secret plan to defend South Korea against a possible second invasion by the North. Now, 50 years later, the surviving USS Pueblo crew members and their relatives are suing North Korea over their treatment while in captivity. Black athletes were making symbolic protests against racism Tommie Smith, center, and John Carlos, gold and bronze medalists in the 200-meter sprint at the 1968 Olympic Games, raise their fists on the medal stand. On October 16, 1968, US sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos won gold and bronze medals in the 200 meters at the Summer Olympics in Mexico City. The two African-American men took the medals podium barefoot, bowed their heads and raised their fists in Black Power salutes as the national anthem played. A famous photo of their silent protest was front-page news around the world. The backlash was swift. The pair were kicked off the US Olympic Team and faced death threats upon returning home. "There was a lot of misunderstanding about what was happening because they had never seen that happen before, especially by a black athlete," Smith told CNN in 2016 . He said his "human rights" salute "represented those who did not have a platform." Almost half a century later, San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick touched off another firestorm when he chose to sit -- and later kneel -- during the national anthem before NFL games to protest systemic racism in America. Members of the New England Patriots kneel during the national anthem before an NFL game on September 24, 2017. Like Smith's and Carlos', his protest was symbolic and silent. Unlike theirs, it gradually caught on with other athletes, spreading to college and even high school games across the country. On several Sundays last fall, hundreds of NFL players took a knee during the anthem in response to President Trump's call for NFL owners to fire any "son of a bitch" who "disrespects our flag." But Kaepernick, too, has paid a price for his principles. He has been out of work since the 2016 season and last fall filed a grievance against the NFL , claiming team owners colluded to keep him out of the league. We were traumatized by shocking acts of violence Robert F. Kennedy lies wounded on the floor of the Ambassador Hotel's kitchen while his wife Ethel leans over him on June 5, 1968, in Los Angeles. More than anything, the chaos of 1968 was exemplified by two seismic spasms of gunfire, just nine weeks apart. On April 4, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was fatally shot by a lone assassin in Memphis , prompting an outpouring of grief and anger in African-American communities around the nation. Chicago, Washington, D.C., and dozens of other cities erupted in riots that lasted for several days. Sixty-three days later, Sen. Robert F. Kennedy was gunned down in Los Angeles only hours after winning California's presidential primary. The two assassinations threw the nation in turmoil. The idealism of the early 1960s, symbolized by America's youthful new president, was gone, replaced by a creeping cynicism and an unease that the fabric of American society was coming apart. Some people have described the same destabilizing feeling over the past year as the US has been wracked by terror attacks and mass shootings. In one horrific span of four-and-a-half months, gunmen mowed down dozens of innocent victims in Las Vegas; Sutherland Springs, Texas; and Parkland, Florida, and a man in a rented truck killed eight people on a busy bike path in New York City. Students embrace after a February 14 shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. The death toll from these tragic acts is much higher now than in 1968, but in a post-9/11, post-Sandy Hook, post-Pulse era, the sense of shock may not be any greater. "We are inured to it (gun violence) in a way that we weren't in 1968," says Kaiser, the "1968" author. Back then, he says, "you just felt like like all the old standards were going out the window." Women were speaking up for their rights Demonstrators outside the Miss America Pageant in September 1968 in Atlantic City, New Jersey. In September 1968, several hundred feminists converged on Atlantic City, New Jersey, to protest outside the annual Miss America pageant, complaining that it oppressed women and promoted misogynistic attitudes about beauty. Protesters carried signs saying, "Let's judge ourselves as people," and dumped girdles, mops, copies of "Ladies' Home Journal" and other items seen as manifestations of oppression into a "freedom trash can" on Atlantic City's boardwalk. They weren't successful in shutting down the pageant, which is still held today ( although it will now be led entirely by women ). But the protests helped spur a new wave of feminism that continued into the 1970s and beyond. A protester takes part in a women's rights rally in Charlotte, North Carolina, on January 20, 2018. Signs of their efforts can be seen in the Women's March , which drew hundreds of thousands of female protesters to cities around the country the past two years to lobby for women's rights and rebuke vulgar comments by President Trump. They also can be seen in the recent #MeToo and #TimesUp movements to combat sexual harassment and violence against women. "You can draw a direct line from the Miss America protests to the sexual harassment stuff," says Kaiser. So in 50 years we have learned ... what? When the fractious America of 2018 looks in the mirror, it can see traces of its younger self, half a century ago. Our country has evolved and grown up since then. Bigotry is no longer acceptable. Women are assuming more positions of leadership. We have smartphones. And yet in other ways we haven't learned anything from the turmoil of 1968. Again, Washington is in chaos. Again, we have thousands of US troops in an interminable and unpopular conflict halfway around the world . Again our nation, plagued by conflict and bloodshed, is on edge. A policeman with mace spray confronts crowd of anti-Vietnam war protesters in 1968. To paraphrase F. Scott Fitzgerald , we're like boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past -- and doomed to repeat it. Yes, our current period of American history feels crazy. But if someone tries to tell you that none of this has ever happened before, remind them of 1968.
How many of us own a dedicated digital camera anymore? The answer is probably not that many. As our smartphones get smarter we’ve ditched the compact camera and instead are turning to our iPhones to get that perfect Instagram-worthy image. It’s no surprise either, with recent smartphones like the Google Pixel 2 and Huawei P20 Pro boasting the kind of features you would expect to find on a professional DSLR worth thousands of pounds. Great photography doesn’t have to come at a cost either, while these phones can cost upwards of £700-800, the rise of Artificial Intelligence in smartphones has allowed even lower-priced smartphones the ability to take great pictures. Points to consider when choosing: Megapixels don’t matter - That’s right, more is most definitely not better so don’t pick a phone just because it has a 20MP camera. Dual-cameras or single lens? - The Google Pixel 2 takes incredible pictures with just one lens. If you see a phone with two cameras make sure that lens is actually doing something useful whether it’s allowing you to zoom further or take better low-light images. Lights, Camera, Action - If shooting video is a big priority for you then it could completely change the phone you should choose. Check for Optical Image Stabilisation (OIS), 4K and 60fps recording and if you want to be experimental, super slow-motion at over 900fps. Aperture is everything - This is how much light a camera lets in, the lower the number the better e.g. f1.5 is better than f2.4. Portrait Mode or Low Light? - Most cameras now focus on either taking those Bokeh-effect images where they can blur the background or taking incredible low-light images. Choose which one you care about as there aren’t many phones that can do both equally as well. Here are our recommendations of the best phone cameras available right now. Google Pixel 2 T3 Magazine via Getty Images Last year Google focused all of its not inconsiderable computing power towards making the easiest point-and-shoot camera in the world. The result was the Google Pixel 2. With a single 12.2MP main camera and an f/1.8 aperture the Pixel 2 takes fantastic pictures in both low-light conditions and when on the move. With just the one lens, Google is instead relying on incredibly powerful software to help enhance images and make them look their best. Portrait Mode images are best-in-class and in some cases probably better than the iPhone. The camera app is a complete doddle to use and perfect for beginners. For more advanced photographers, the Pixel’s OLED display is something to watch out for. It’s not known for being especially accurate, as such always be aware that what you might see on your phone is not what you’re going to see when you print it off or send it to someone else. Google Pixel 2: From £629 Google Pixel 2 XL: From £799 Huawei P20 Pro Bloomberg via Getty Images Huawei’s P20 Pro is an incredibly mixed bag. You have some incredible hardware in the form of not two, but three lenses. There’s a 40MP main sensor, 20MP black & white sensor and a 8MP sensor with 3X optical zoom. The three lenses give the P20 Pro a rather neat party trick which is that it can take some pretty astonishing pictures at night. The results are mightily impressive as you can see here. The P20 Pro also has one of the most comprehensive ‘Pro’ modes available, giving you precise access to every conceivable setting. The P20 Pro isn’t perfect though, the app itself isn’t intuitive and the camera’s auto modes are viciously aggressive when it comes to humans and objects. They’re just over-filtered. If you’re a pro, this is the camera for you, if you’re looking for a point-and-shoot, look elsewhere. Huawei P20 Pro: £799 OnePlus 6 HuffPost UK OnePlus smartphones have always struggled to take pictures that can truly compete with the giants of Apple and Samsung. This all changes with the OnePlus 6. On the back there’s a 16MP f1.7 lens with OIS and a 20MP f1.7 lens which when combined will allow you to take Bokeh effect images and some pretty descent low-light images as well. The OnePlus 6 does take incredibly good pictures, keep in mind though it does have a habit of over saturating colours. What it does really well is make taking pictures easy. The app could not be easier to use for beginners. Pro shooters aren’t forgotten either with a feature packed ‘Pro’ mode that lets you shoot pictures in RAW format. Where the OnePlus suffers is in its execution of Portrait Mode, the live image you see often bears little resemblance to the finished image. It’s frustrating, but not a deal breaker because the finished image is often fantastic, with very little accidental blurring around objects that should be in focus. Sadly video is equally less impressive thanks to the camera’s almost constant need to refocus, producing some fairly unpleasant artefacts as you’re shooting. It’s OK, just not great. OnePlus 6: From £469 iPhone X T3 Magazine via Getty Images Despite being announced back in September of 2017, it’s a testament to Apple that the iPhone X still has one of the best cameras in a smartphone. On the back is a 12MP f1.8 wide-angle lens and a 12MP f2.4 telephoto lens, on the front there’s a 7MP TrueDepth camera that allows the iPhone X’s Face ID technology. Apple’s dual-camera setup is primarily there to allow for Portrait Mode and long-distance images. As such it’s brilliant at both, boasting arguably the best Bokeh-effect images around and superb lighting options with Apple’s own Portrait Lighting technology. Low-light performance is great, but not as good as either the Samsung Galaxy S9 and Huawei P20 Pro. For professionals or enthusiasts there’s little help from the standard Camera app, however the iPhone has an incredible weapon up its sleeve, the App Store. Apple has opened up the camera to developers allowing them to create their own professional shooting apps including ProCamera and Adobe Lightroom. Apple iPhone X: From £999 Samsung Galaxy S9+ Bloomberg via Getty Images The Samsung Galaxy S9 and S9+ are both the first cameras to have a dual aperture, that means that the camera can switch from being either f1.5 for low-light images or f2.4 for ultra-sharp images in broad daylight. Combine this with the dual-cameras on the larger S9+ and you have one of the best all-round cameras available. Low-light images are pretty incredible with only the Huawei P20 Pro as its equal in that regard. The camera app itself is easy to use and absolutely full to the brim of neat little tricks from a bokeh effect that you can adjust in real-time to a Super Slow Motion mode that automatically detects movement so it records at just the right time. Video is also superb with few artefacts or shaking thanks to Optical Image Stabilisation. It’s hard to find a single fault with the S9 or the dual-camera S9+ but then at this price, you’d expect nothing less. Samsung Galaxy S9: From £739 Samsung Galaxy S9+: From £929 Sony Xperia XZ2 HuffPost UK
YJ Fischer served at the State Department from 2012-2016. She co-wrote the 2016 Democratic Party platform and served on the Clinton-Kaine Transition Team. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. (CNN) North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's recent threat to pull out of the upcoming summit with President Donald Trump appears to be a ploy to take advantage of Trump's main weakness as a negotiator: He often makes major concessions without securing anything of significance in exchange. Trump has already conceded more than he should. North Korean leaders have tried for two decades to get a meeting with an America president because they believed it would give them prestige and legitimacy. Trump agreed without securing a single commitment first -- a missed opportunity. Then, when Kim bluffed and threatened to walk away from the summit that he so desperately wants, Trump made an additional concession and, according to CNN , shifted a planned flight of B-52 bombers so as not to fly over the Korean Peninsula. (The Pentagon has declined to comment on the matter. ) Both concessions are significant and give Kim the upper hand heading into the summit. For Trump to succeed at the summit, he has to impress upon North Korea that the US will drive a hard bargain. Instead, Trump keeps signaling to Kim that he can be taken advantage of by both adversaries and allies. Kim watched Trump do this twice this past week. First, Trump caved to China. Trump decided he would assist the Chinese technology company ZTE, even though the company is a repeat violator of US sanctions against Iran and North Korea. Sparing ZTE punishment weakens US sanctions by signaling that Trump may not be serious about enforcement. Moreover, ZTE is a known national security threat . FBI Director Christopher Wray told Congress that ZTE products allow China to spy on Americans, and the Pentagon has said that ZTE devices "may pose an unacceptable risk to the department's personnel, information and mission." In exchange for offering to help ZTE, which is important to the leadership in Beijing, Trump should have insisted on receiving significant economic or security concessions from China. He could have demanded that China end its widespread practice of industrial espionage against US businesses, reduce barriers for foreign companies entering China and stop dumping artificially cheap products into the American market. Instead, he decided to go easy on ZTE, without getting anything in return. Trump did the same with Israel. The Israelis have been pressing the United States to move the embassy for more than 20 years , in the hopes that it would signal international recognition of Jerusalem as the undivided capital of the Jewish state and a rejection of the Palestinian claim to East Jerusalem. Trump came into office saying he would secure an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal: "I will do whatever is necessary to facilitate the agreement -- to mediate, to arbitrate, anything." Moving the embassy may have torpedoed any efforts to revive the comatose peace process. Nonetheless, Trump should have pressed Israel for a concession in exchange for such a sought-after diplomatic coup. Trump could have insisted on the halting settlement construction, an increase in humanitarian aid to Gaza or progress on the sticking points of past negotiations, such as a realistic timeline for removing Israeli troops from the Jordan Valley. Instead he got nothing in return. Trump's handling of ZTE and the embassy in Israel demonstrate his tendency to give away bargaining chips without getting enough in exchange. Now, as Kim and Trump head into a June summit, North Korea has all the leverage. And Trump needs to do better at giving away less and extracting more. This would be a difficult for any American president when it comes to North Korea because the question of how much the US should be willing to give in exchange for verifiable concessions is a truly hard one. The US wants the paranoid Hermit Kingdom to open up to international inspectors, dismantle the nuclear program it's spent years building and halt production of fissile material. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook But what meaningful concessions are we willing to provide in return? Experts have proposed economic relief and ending joint military exercises with South Korea, but those steps are unlikely to be enough. That's why it's truly worrisome that even before sitting down with Kim and extracting an agreement to verifiably disarm his nuclear program, Trump reportedly signaled his openness to removing US troops stationed in South Korea. (The White House denies such a suggestion was made.) Such a concession, though, would be the ultimate win for North Korea as well as a victory for China, which wants US forces gone so that it can pursue its territorial ambitions in East Asia unencumbered. Trump faces some hard questions about what to offer North Korea. He has shown this week with how he has handled China, Israel and North Korea that he is ill prepared for the tough choices ahead.
Elon Musk has ratcheted up his criticism of the media. In a Twitter exchange on Saturday Musk, the CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, described newsrooms as "bleak." He accused NBC News reporter Ben Collins of "living in a bubble of self-righteous sanctimony" when Collins asked Musk if he'd ever spent time in a newsroom. Joshua Topolsky, a veteran tech editor and founder of The Outline, an online publication, asked Musk: "Do you think it's in the interest of powerful people to A: support a free press that exposes their lies, or B: tear it down so their lies are easier to tell?" Topolsky wrote. "Now ask yourself why the polls would look bad." Musk responded cryptically: "Who do you think *owns* the press? Hello." He did not elaborate. A number of follow up questions were left unanswered. On Sunday, Collins noted in a tweet that the comment had attracted a barrage of anti-Semitic responses. He called on Musk to condemn them. Who do you think *owns* the press? Hello. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) May 27, 2018 Related: Elon Musk wants to rate journalists. He'd call his site 'Pravda' Musk, whose business endeavors frequently receive positive coverage, raised eyebrows last week when he took to Twitter to criticize the press, accusing journalists of being motivated by advertising dollars and saying he wanted to launch a site called Pravda to rate the credibility of journalists, editors and publications. Pravda, the Russian word for "truth," is also the name of a newspaper linked to the Communist Party in the Soviet Union. Many on Twitter praised Musk's idea and joined him in criticizing the news media. Others said the idea needed refinement. Siva Vaidhyanathan, a media studies professor at the University of Virginia, told CNN such a service might might make sense if it employed a careful methodology and was overseen by an independent journalism foundation. "It's not a crackpot idea," he said. "The question is why should Elon Musk be the one running it and how trustworthy would it be if he ran it." Related: Musk says Tesla will fix Model 3 problems that sparked negative review The ruminations come after coverage of Tesla (TSLA) for missing Model 3 production goals, losing top executives and clashing with the government over an Autopilot crash investigation. Musk also pushed back against Reveal, a nonprofit news organization that published an investigative report about safety conditions and injury reporting methods at Tesla factories. Musk claims the reports are "misleading." Musk has also occasionally indicated he isn't attempting to discredit all media outlets. "[P]lease stop assuming I'm against all journalists," he said in one tweet. "This is not true. Something needs to be done to improve public trust in media." He also made a donation on Wednesday to PolitiFact, a fact-checking site owned by Poynter, a non-profit school for journalists. Earlier in the day, Alan Boyle, an editor at GeekWire, wrote to Musk in a tweet. It's great that @elonmusk is interested in supporting reality checks amid the #fakenews crisis, but crowdsourcing may not be the best way to do it. Supporting orgs like @snopes and @PolitiFact would be a better way to go: https://t.co/6D8IoM2WaH — Alan Boyle (@b0yle) May 23, 2018 "It's great that @elonmusk is interested in supporting reality checks amid the #fakenews crisis, but crowdsourcing may not be the best way to do it. Supporting orgs like @snopes and @PolitiFact would be a better way to go," Boyle said. — CNN's Seth Fiegerman contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump uses a cellphone not equipped with top security features and has rejected repeated attempts by his staff to harden his devices against hackers, Politico reported on Monday. Trump regularly uses at least two government-issued iPhones — one a “burner” device capable only of making calls, and another that’s loaded with a Twitter app and “a handful of news sites,” according to Politico, which said former government security experts criticized the president’s phone practices. Trump’s call-only phone has a camera and microphone — features that can be exploited by hackers, Politico reported, citing two senior administration officials as sources. As for the phone Trump uses for Twitter, the president reportedly has rebuffed his staff’s advice to swap the device every month, saying it would be “too inconvenient.” Trump’s attitude toward his own communications security contrasts with Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state ― something Trump and his allies have assailed for years. Politico said Trump has gone for as long as five months without getting his Twitter phone checked by security experts. The GPS trackers on both of Trump’s devices have reportedly been deactivated.
OTTAWA — Green Party Leader Elizabeth May says the Liberals have "just lost every seat in B.C." after the government announced Tuesday that it will buy Kinder Morgan's Trans Mountain pipeline expansion project. The government's decision to step in and build the pipeline is an act of "political desperation," the Saanich—Gulf Islands MP told reporters on Parliament Hill. May claimed the deal to be politically motivated to help Alberta Premier Rachel Notley beat United Conservative Party Leader Jason Kenney in the province's election next year. She explained Kinder Morgan pulled off a "brilliant ploy" in taking its own project hostage and threatening it "would be shot on May 31st unless there was a guarantee" they could finish construction. "This project was never in Canada's national interest," she said. Watch: May Says Kinder Morgan Pipeline Deal Is 'Completely Insane' The company suspended all non-essential work related to the project last month. Kinder Morgan threatened to walk away unless it got federal certainty that it can build through British Columbia, despite a court challenge raised from that province's NDP government. "Instead we've bought the pipeline. And it's absolutely stunning," said May. She explained that new ownership does nothing to increase the likelihood of the project proceeding. "This situation has created a public policy solution that's worse than the problem that they faced in the beginning." It's now the government that has to pass the National Energy Board's 157 conditions and over a dozen court challenges before the project can be built, May said. Finance Minister Bill Morneau and Natural Resources Minister Jim Carr announced earlier that the federal government will buy the existing 1,150-kilometre Trans Mountain pipeline, and Kinder Morgan's core assets related to its 980-kilometre expansion, for $4.5 billion. That price tag for is not inclusive of construction costs, indemnity insurance, or legal fees related to ongoing court challenges against the project. The agreement is subject to the approval of Kinder Morgan shareholders and is expected to close in August, the finance minister said. According to the government, Kinder Morgan will help with efforts to find another private sector buyer who will take on the project. If that happens, taxpayers are off the hook for the multi-billion dollar bill. In the meantime Crown corporation will be set up to run its existing operations. Make no mistake, this is an investment in Canada's future. Finance Minister Bill Morneau "We believe that this is the best way to protect thousands of good, well-paying jobs and the safest and most effective way to get our natural resources to world markets," Morneau explained. "Make no mistake, this is an investment in Canada's future." The pipeline is a way of getting Canadian oil resources safely to new markets and for "a fair price," he said. Morneau calls decision the 'right thing to do' In question period, debate turned a bit ugly after Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer questioned how the government writing a $4.5-billion cheque to a Texas-based company will attract energy sector investors to Canada. Morneau discredited Scheer on the basis that he has "no business experience." He called the purchase a $4.5-billion investment in Kinder Morgan assets that will generate value in the long run. The finance minister called it is the "right thing to do for our country" Finance Minister Bill Morneau and Natural Resources Minister James Carr speak at the National Press Theatre during a press conference in Ottawa on May 29, 2018. The project has faced tremendous pushback and delays from environmental and Indigenous groups — mostly centred in B.C. — concerned about the impact an oil spill could have on the west coast. Last month, the B.C. NDP government filed a reference case with the Court of Appeal to check if it can pass legislation to ask companies to file permits for any project that proposes to increase the transport of bitumen across the province. B.C. Premier John Horgan told reporters in Victoria hours after the buyout announcement that the federal government has still yet to offer a fulsome explanation for why the project is in the national interest. He explained B.C. shoulders most of the environmental risk if oil transport to overseas markets goes awry. B.C. Premier John Horgan provides an update following the decision from the federal government's plan to buy the Trans Mountain Pipeline from Kinder Morgan during an a press conference in the press theatre at Legislature in Victoria, B.C. on May 29, 2018. A aerial view of Kinder Morgan's Trans Mountain tank farm is pictured in Burnaby, B.C., is shown on May 29, 2018. A aerial view of Kinder Morgan's Trans Mountain marine terminal, in Burnaby, B.C., is shown on May 29, 2018. A aerial view of Kinder Morgan's Trans Mountain marine terminal, in Burnaby, B.C., is shown on May 29, 2018. "I do believe now that the federal government is totally accountable, not just for regulation and approval of a pipeline, but they are now responsible from wellhead to tidewater and beyond," Horgan said. But despite being an apparent thorn in the government's side for acting on his election promise to use "every tool in its toolbox" to stop the pipeline project, Horgan maintained he and Trudeau enjoy an overall "positive" relationship. 'We've been able to do a whole range of things with respect to infrastructure, with respect to child care, and housing. And I expect to continue to do that," he said. "On this issue, we disagree."
Adele is rolling in deep with Rihanna. Time Magazine revealed its list of the 100 most influential people in the world on Thursday and this year, the “Anti” singer rightfully made the cut. (Sidenote: when has Rihanna not been one of the most influential people in the world?). Of course, the outlet thought it best to emotionally destroy music fans everywhere by having Adele profile the Fenty Beauty queen, whom she describes as “the most gracious, loyal and funny goofball of an icon.” “I actually can’t remember the first time I met Rihanna; I was probably numb from the shock of it,” the British songstress wrote. “She is one year older than me, but I feel like she’s been around forever. The progression of her superstardom feels steady, well deserved and extremely natural.”
For the past few years, swimwear label Solid & Striped has pretty much become the standard for chic one-pieces and bikinis. The brand even has plenty of celebrity fans, including Taylor Swift and her posse of famous friends. (Ever since the singer and her squad wore matching Solid & Striped swimsuits over Fourth of July 2016, the brand’s many styles have saturated our Instagram feeds.) But you know what they say: There are plenty of fish in the sea ... and plenty of cool swimwear labels out there making equally Instagrammable one-pieces and bikinis for all your trips to the beach. Don’t get us wrong, there’s nothing wrong with Solid & Striped ― but we want to share some of our other favorite swim labels making stylish, sexy, cool swimsuits to get you through summer.
(CNN) For some, being transgender is an identity. For others, it's a label. At its core, it's the state of knowing that your gender is different from the one you were assigned at birth. There's no one way to be transgender, no set of boxes to check that make it so. And while the medical community is working to figure out what causes people to be transgender, the consensus is clear on this: Being transgender is not a mental illness, though as late as 2012 the American mental health community classified it that way. But for a transgender person to access medical care to align their body with their gender, they often must be diagnosed with a mental disorder called gender dysphoria -- especially if they plan to seek reimbursement from an insurance company. And they must convince their insurer that the treatment is medically necessary and not cosmetic. That's where things can get even more complicated. First, you must have a mental disorder Gender dysphoria is defined by the distress caused by the discrepancy between a person's body and their gender identity. The American Psychiatric Association added the term to its diagnostic manual in 2013 to distinguish between the condition of being transgender and symptoms that arise from distress over being transgender. Technically speaking, being transgender has never been considered a mental illness because the word was never adopted as diagnostic nomenclature, said Jamison Green, past president of the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH). But the medical community used other terms in its Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, known as the DSM, to pathologize gender nonconformity, including transsexualism and gender identity disorder. For years, advocates and clinicians fought to remove those terms from the DSM . They argued that they contributed to the stigmatization of the trans community, just as the inclusion of "homosexuality" in the DSM until 1973 fostered misperceptions that being gay was a mental disorder -- one that could be treated and cured. The DSM-5, published in 2013, replaced gender identity disorder with gender dysphoria to make clear that the diagnosis pertains to distress and not identity, per se. The World Health Organization has signaled its intention to move transgender identity from its chapter on mental illness to a new one on sexual health. The new diagnosis was intended to clear hurdles to gender-affirming treatment, including surgical procedures. But some contend that it inappropriately pathologizes transgender identity by requiring a mental health diagnosis to access care. Others argue that the diagnosis is essential to ensure access to care. For many seeking treatment in the American health care system -- especially those without the means to pay out of pocket -- it can be the only option available. Everyone is different But not all transgender individuals want or need surgical interventions to transition. The process of transitioning is different for each person. Some resist the term altogether because they don't buy into the idea that gender is binary and that there are only two options: man or woman. And not all people who identify as transgender have gender dysphoria at the level of distress that requires diagnostic treatment. JUST WATCHED Transgender identity, in their words Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Transgender identity, in their words 02:44 For some, transitioning may not involve any kind of surgical intervention; it might be enough to change their name or gender designation on identity documents and come out to friends and family, known as social transitions. Some people take hormones to change features they developed in puberty. Hormone replacement therapy may aid in redistributing body fat to different parts of the body and accelerate or slow body hair growth. The hormone estrogen can produce breast tissue and halt sperm production, and testosterone tends to stop menstruation and increase sex drive. For some who are transitioning, hormone therapy is sufficient. But it doesn't change primary sex characteristics, such as genitals -- changes that some consider essential. That's when they might seek gender-affirming surgery -- and to get insurance coverage for it requires a diagnosis of gender dysphoria. WPATH lists protocols to treat gender dysphoria in its standards of care, a set of flexible clinical guidelines that the world's leading medical associations and courts of law follow. The association stresses that each person requires a different course of treatment, and what's medically necessary for one person might not be for another. As far as the association is concerned, patients and their physicians -- those trained to work with the community -- are the best arbiters of what's medically necessary for that person. Surgical interventions for gender dysphoria, according to WPATH, can include feminizing or masculinizing hormone therapy, voice therapy, chest augmentation and reduction, or genital surgery. According to the association's standards of care , "persistent, well documented gender dysphoria" is a prerequisite for hormone treatment and most surgical interventions. For genital surgery, the association says a patient should take hormones and live for at least one year "in the gender role that is congruent with their gender identity" before seeking surgical interventions. "Within those standards of care are the best-known treatments for gender dysphoria, so by the time [patients] see me, they have seen one to two physicians who know them well and have given them this diagnosis," said Dr. Sidhbh Gallagher, a WPATH member and plastic surgeon at Indiana University Health's Gender Affirmation Surgery program. Competing definitions of medical necessity: Doctors vs. insurance Leading medical organizations in the United States agree that gender-affirming care are the most effective treatment for gender dysphoria. The American Medical Association , the American Psychological Association and the American Psychiatric Association have issued position statements supporting coverage for medically necessary treatment as determined by a patient and their health care provider. Insurers tend to require at least one physician's letter documenting the patient's gender dysphoria and attesting to the procedure's medical necessity. Some require additional documentation, such as multiple letters from Ph.D.-level physicians, making the barrier to entry even higher for an already vulnerable patient population, Gallagher said. Others use their own criteria for medical necessity to the frustration of patients and surgeons. "Why do the insurance companies set their own standards when they know nothing about transgender surgery?" said Dr. Beverly Fischer, a plastic surgeon in Baltimore who specializes in chest surgery. "Insurance companies take it upon themselves -- at extra expense to patients who have already been through enough -- to create additional requirements. In my opinion, they're trying to make it more difficult for them to get coverage." The trade association America's Health Insurance Plans disputed the suggestion that health plans apply arbitrary criteria to transition-related benefits. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "Health plans support evidence-based care that ensures safety for the patient, and in many cases may require a patient undergoing gender reassignment treatment to receive other services before they go into surgery," Kristine Grow, senior vice president of communications at the insurance association, wrote in an email. To evaluate a procedure's medical necessity, Grow said that many insurers use criteria outlined in what's known as the Stanford definition. Unlike the American Medical Association's, the Stanford definition factors in "the cost-effective(ness) for this condition compared to alternative interventions, including no intervention." The American Medical Association, on the other hand, has said it opposes definitions of medical necessity that "emphasize cost and resource utilization above quality and clinical effectiveness."
(CNN) Before there were smartphones, singles would often go to bars or clubs and try to meet "the One," or at least the one for that night. Alcohol-induced courage and a steep bar tab later, singles were on top of their game or it was "game over" -- until the next weekend. Technology has saved singles from all that. With smartphones, we can now carry millions of potential love interests in our pockets. The next person is just a few swipes, clicks or texts away. Dating apps are only growing in popularity, with no sign of slowing. Match.com has more than 7 million paid subscribers , an increase from 3.4 million in 2014. According to Tinder, the app generates 1.6 billion swipes per day , leading to 1.5 million dates (an average of one or two per user) a week. Hook-up culture on Tinder isn't what it used to be, either. Short-term sexual relationships over one-night stands seem to be what users crave, according to a new study published by the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. With more and more users whose desires are shifting, the stigma of finding a mate online is lessening. But is all this easy dating making us happier? Probably not. Rejection is real, even online You send a message to a match that goes unanswered. You swipe right and never have it reciprocated. You go on a date, only to be "ghosted" afterward. Rejection hurts, and not just metaphorically. Being turned down stimulates the same part of the brain that processes physical pain, according to a 2011 study from the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. "Social rejection and physical pain are similar not only in that they are both distressing, they share a common representation in somatosensory brain systems as well," the study's authors wrote. Basically, our brains can't tell the difference between a broken heart and a broken bone. Instead of one rejection at a bar on a Saturday night, the popularity of online dating gives users many more opportunities to feel rejected faster. Swiping and self-esteem The popularity of online dating may also affect how we perceive ourselves, according to a 2017 study published in the peer-reviewed journal Body Image. About 1,300 (mostly) college-age students were asked about their Tinder use, body image and self-esteem. The study found that men and women who use the app appear to have lower self-esteem than those who don't. In general, Tinder users reported less satisfaction with their bodies and looks than non-users, study author Jessica Strübel wrote. "As a result of how the app works and what it requires of its users, people who are on Tinder after a while may begin to feel depersonalized and disposable in their social interactions, develop heightened awareness (and criticism) of their looks and bodies and believe that there is always something better around the corner, or rather with the next swipe of their screen, even while questioning their own worth," Strübel wrote. Age of tech addiction Five dating apps -- Tinder, Bumble, Match, Plenty Of Fish and Zoosk -- rank in the top 50 highest-grossing social apps in the Apple Store, with Tinder becoming the overall top-grossing app in September thanks to Tinder Gold, a paid "add-on" of premium features. But as dating apps gain popularity and profitability, is there a greater cost in convenience over well-being? Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Last year, Match.com released a volunteer-based study on recent dating trends. Although the survey wasn't scientific, the results were revealing. Almost one in six singles (15%) reported feeling addicted to the online process of looking for a date. Millennials were 125% more likely to say they feel addicted to dating. Men were 97% more likely to feel addicted to dating than women, but 54% of women felt more burned out by the process. "People who self-described as having really addictive-style behaviors toward the internet and cellphones scored much higher on depression and anxiety scales," said University of Illinois psychology professor Alejandro Lleras, who conducted a study in 2016 that linked technology addiction to anxiety and depression . Researchers surveyed 300 university students about their mental health, cell phone and internet use, and motivations for using electronic devices. "With growing support for the connection between technology use and mental health, the relationship between motivation for cellphone or internet use and well-being warrants further exploration," he said.
Italy is paying a high price for the political chaos of the past few days. The heavily-indebted nation found buyers for nearly €6 billion ($7 billion) of its bonds on Wednesday, a sign that market fears that Italy could ditch the euro may be receding. But investors demanded higher rates of interest for taking on the risk of holding Italian government debt given a political outlook that remains deeply uncertain. The government will pay 3% on 10-year bonds sold Wednesday, almost double the rate it agreed to pay in April. Italy's main stock market index was 2% higher in afternoon trading, having lost 5% since Friday, with the successful auction helping to reassure investors. Fears that new elections in the world's eighth largest economy could bolster radical parties and result in a clash between Rome and the European Union sent Italian stocks and bonds plunging on Tuesday and triggered a sell-off in global markets. Short-term Italian bonds suffered their worst day since 1992 on Tuesday, according to Reuters. Two populist parties failed to form a government on Sunday after Italy's president refused to accept their euroskeptic nominee for the post of finance minister. A former International Monetary Fund official was instead asked to become interim prime minister at the head of a caretaker administration that would hold office until new elections could be held later this year. But what happens next is still far from clear. A source at the presidential palace with direct knowledge of the talks said discussions were underway on a government that would include representatives from the populist parties. Meanwhile, at least one of the parties feared by investors struck a conciliatory tone on the euro. "If the markets fear that Italy will exit the euro, it's because someone spread the news," said Luigi Di Maio, the leader of the Five Star Movement. "But we never wanted that." Related: Italy crisis rocks markets. Here's why investors are worried Most analysts believe Italy will remain a member of the eurozone. "A spot forecast assumes things are bad for the summer and into the autumn but that Italy doesn't ditch the euro or adopt policies that doom it to leaving before too long," said Societe Generale strategist Kit Juckes. European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said Tuesday that he was "convinced that Italy will continue on its European path." "Italy's fate does not lie in the hands of the financial markets," he said. "Regardless of which political party may be in power, Italy is a founding member of the European Union that has contributed immensely to European integration." Italy's central bank governor Ignazio Visco echoed that message. "The delicateness and exceptionality of these times is clear to everyone," he said on Tuesday. "We are part of a very large and deeply integrated economic area, whose development determines that of Italy and at the same time depends on it." He also warned that Italy "must never forget the very serious risk of losing the irreplaceable asset of trust." -- Delia Gallagher contributed reporting.
A retired California businessman has accepted a controversial plea deal that spares him prison time for sexually assaulting a 5-year-old girl. Lyle Burgess, 79, of Stockton pleaded no contest to unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor on May 23, for which he received 90 days in jail and five years of probation. According to the terms of sentencing, he isn’t required to register as a sex offender and may serve his sentence under house arrest. His home is in an upscale gated community. “The sentence is absurd,” Kenneth Meleyco, a lawyer for the victim’s family, told HuffPost. “The man pled guilty to statutory rape, which normally involves someone older than a 15-year-old girl. A minor can’t consent, but in this case the district attorney amended the complaint and allowed him to plead guilty to a charge that has no factual basis. He should be in state prison and should have to register as a sex offender so people know who he is.” If convicted at trial of felony sex with a child under age 10, Burgess could have faced significant prison time. State sentencing guidelines call for a prison term of 25 years to life. The way it was presented to them was, ‘This is what’s going to happen,’ and they gave the parents no option as to what to do. Kenneth Meleyco, attorney for the victim’s family Burgess was arrested on Nov. 23, 2016, and initially charged with four counts of lewd acts upon a child, according to the district attorney’s office. The arrest was made after the child’s mother reported seeing Burgess put his hand down her daughter’s pants. His attorney, Gregory Davenport, told The Associated Press that his client denies molesting the child and accepted the plea deal because he is in frail health and wants to put the allegations behind him. “The whole case was based upon some minor touching,” Davenport said. In a Friday press release, the district attorney’s office said the allegations would have been difficult to prove in court, adding that the child was not sexually penetrated. Meleyco disagrees. “It wasn’t weak,” he said. “The little girl told police what he did. She told the police therapist what he did, and she testified to what he did. The mother also saw one of the [incidents], and when he was confronted with all this, he asked for a lawyer, so we never knew his position on all of this.” The district attorney’s press release says the plea deal was “agreed upon by all parties, including the parents of the child victim.” According to Meleyco, the parents were not given a choice. “The way it was presented to them was, ‘This is what’s going to happen,’ and they gave the parents no option as to what to do,” he said. The victim’s mother condemned the deal while testifying at the sentencing hearing, saying Burgess was “getting off so easy.” “I want other kids to be protected by possible future abuse by this man,” she said. The child’s father said in court, “I don’t have too many prized possessions in this world other than my family. [My daughter] will remember this the rest of her life. She sleeps on the floor outside our room.” Meleyco is representing the child’s family in a civil suit against Burgess seeking unspecified damages for sexual abuse and intentional infliction of emotional distress. According to Sacramento’s Fox 40 News, Burgess is the founder of Rare Parts Inc., a Stockton automotive parts manufacturing and distribution company. “She’ll get some adequate compensation for this,” Meleyco said of the victim, who is now 7 years old. Burgess’ attorney said he believes the allegations are motivated by greed. “They are using this instance to try to gain financially,” Davenport told The Record. Meleyco said Burgess’ status and wealth are what got him off easy. “He’s white and wealthy,” Meleyco said. “That’s what I think. The district attorney’s office handled it that way, when it’s supposed to be up to the district attorney’s office to ensure justice is done.”
Khartoum, Sudan (CNN) Slashes to her hands, bite marks embedded in her shoulder, and a broken bed. As the defense team for Sudanese teenager Noura Hussein submitted an appeal to save her life, CNN has learned new details about the struggle that unfolded when she killed her husband, who she says raped her following their forced marriage. The legal team representing the 19-year-old, who was sentenced to death earlier this month for murder , filed the appeal on Thursday in the capital Khartoum following an international outcry over Hussein's case. "Noura and indeed the women and girls of Sudan have too often been treated as chattel to be traded and given away as though they are property and as though they have no rights," activists with the Justice for Noura campaign said in a statement on Thursday. "Here today, united and in one voice we wish to say -- enough!" The teenager's story has shone a spotlight on the issues of forced marriage and marital rape in Sudan, where the legal age of marriage is only 10 and marital rape is legal. Hussein's family compelled her to marry at 15, but she refused and ran away for three years. Her father forced her to complete the wedding ceremony in April 2017. After refusing to have sex with her husband on their "honeymoon," she says he raped her as his brother and two cousins restrained her. A day later her husband tried to rape her again, and she stabbed him to death. When she went to her parents for support, they turned her in to the police. An illustration used in the change.org campaign for Noura Hussein. Her legal team and activists supporting her case say that Hussein's marriage was void, arguing that under Sudanese law, she should have been married in front of a judge as she was under 18 at the time. Thursday's appeal put forward a medical assessment entered into evidence at the time of Hussein's arrest in May 2017, which details defensive wounds: cuts to her hands, bite marks on her shoulder and the bed broken during the struggle with her husband. Sudanese judicial sources told CNN that Hussein was questioned by investigators upon her arrest without the presence of her lawyer. The teenager alleges that she was subjected to threats from the arresting officers during her initial interrogation, according to the same sources. During that interrogation, Hussein confessed to killing her husband after his relatives held her down while he raped her in a suburb of the Sudanese city Omdurman. Hussein maintains she was forced in to marriage by her father and an uncle. The husband's family has denied that he raped Hussein, arguing that the couple were married. "I'm optimistic. I believe we will win the appeal, but if not we will go for the supreme court," Nahid Gabralla, director of SEEMA, a non-governmental organization working with victims and survivors of gender-based violence in Khartoum, told CNN. "It's a long journey." Intimidation campaign In an apparent last-ditch effort to subvert the legal process, lawyers appointed to defend Hussein by the Sudanese government tried to file their own appeal, despite never interviewing Hussein or consulting her legal team, Gabralla said. Gabralla said that activists raised concerns that the group of government-appointed lawyers would not represent Hussein's interests, and ultimately their appeal was rejected by the court. The move follows weeks of an intensifying campaign of intimidation by the Sudanese government, activists told CNN. Noura Hussein on her wedding night. Sudanese security forces came to Al-Imam's office just hours before he was due to brief the media on the latest developments in the case, activists said. Activists and local journalists say it's part of a coordinated effort to prevent the media from reporting on the case and to intimidate Hussein's defense team. For Sudan's Islamist ruling party, Hussein's case represents a threat, calling into question the law on forced marriage. The Sudanese government has not responded to CNN requests for comment on the underlying case. A sisterhood in prison In Dar al-Tayibat Women's Prison, a tight-knit sisterhood has formed around Hussein. Activists who have visited her there say that other inmates have rallied around her. Like Hussein, the women wear tobes, Sudan's traditional long dresses, and are restricted by heavy iron shackles. Hussein's friends in prison say she had aspirations beyond marriage. None wanted to be quoted by name for fear of retribution by Sudanese authorities, but one told CNN: "Noura wanted to study law, she wanted to be someone. When we spoke of our dreams of getting married. Noura was serious. She would speak about her dreams of someday becoming a judge." Hussein, who is from a rural town south of Khartoum, is a member of Darfur's Zaghawa tribe. Her husband's family is wealthier and more influential than Hussein's family in their shared tribe. Hussein's lawyers are concerned for her well-being in prison. Al Fatih Hussein, a key member of Hussein's legal team, told CNN that they are unable to provide her with psychiatric support without a judge's direction. She has received no psychiatric support from authorities since her arrest last year. Across Sudanese social media platforms, Hussein's actions have sparked debate, heartfelt confessions and conversations about the treatment of women in tribal and rural communities. One Facebook user said, "as a Zaghawa girl you're taught not to embarrass the tribe above all else. Not to embarrass your family. What they did to Noura wasn't unique. What was different was what Noura did. She was brave, she didn't let them treat her like property."
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal will weaken U.S. relationships around the world and create problems that U.S. foreign policy will be grappling with for years, but it’s also a boon for the U.S. rival that American intelligence said helped Trump get elected: Russia. Trump’s move will likely lead toward progress on Russian President Vladimir Putin’s two chief goals: splintering the U.S.-led alliance of democratic powers that currently dominates global affairs and fortifying Russia’s alternative network, which includes Iran and its partners across the Middle East. A split between the U.S. and its three most powerful allies — France, Germany and the U.K. — was clear immediately after Trump’s announcement. The leaders of the latter three countries issued a joint statement expressing “regret and concern” and saying they want to sustain the Iran agreement, which promised Iran some freedom from international sanctions in exchange for limits on and guarantees of transparency about its nuclear development. They reiterated what Trump’s own military advisers and new secretary of state have said: Iran is abiding by the deal. “America moves further away from our key allies, which has implications that are extremely important and detrimental,” said Rep. John Garamendi (D-Calif.), a prominent member of the House Armed Services Committee. The U.S. committed to the 2015 nuclear agreement with Iran, Germany, France, Russia, China and the U.K. All the other countries plan to stay in the accord. The U.S. and Europe have always had disputes. But the worry is that something fundamental is shifting. Trump’s reneging on past U.S. commitments on Iran and climate change, along with his willingness to wage a trade war with Europe and continuously misrepresent NATO, has made it hard for America’s foreign partners to think he truly sees them as friends. That the president made his Tuesday announcement despite warnings from his own party’s top national security voices and independent experts reminds other countries that they can’t assume that U.S. supporters of traditional diplomacy and international norms will be able to keep American relationships on track. The implicit promise of an experienced, largely bureaucratic foreign service is that it brings professionalism and longterm thinking to whatever policy an elected official wants to pursue ― and on Tuesday, U.S. diplomats didn’t even have a plan for next steps after Trump’s speech. The Europeans would prefer that the U.S. continue to operate as it traditionally did, said Federiga Bindi, a former official in the Italian government and a senior fellow at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies. “I think with [the Iran deal announcement] they start to see who Trump really is. The U.S. is never going to recover from that.” The Trump administration did try to soften the blow of the announcement. The president spoke of developing future Iran policy alongside foreign partners. And a White House statement said foreign companies that began work in Iran under the terms of the accord ― including some huge European firms ― would have a grace period to exit before potentially being hit with U.S. sanctions that Trump wants to reapply. But that only underscored how U.S. priorities now diverge from those of its longtime allies. European leaders are committed to the Iran deal because they believe it prevents the spread of nuclear weapons and they know Iran will not stay in unless it receives some economic benefit. So now those same leaders, Bindi said, must try to shield their companies from U.S. sanctions by, for instance, helping them create ways to do business in Iran that can’t be disturbed by American regulators. But there’s only so much time in the day. It’s unlikely that European officials will focus much on trying to craft the “better deal” Trump pledged, particularly because the president didn’t seem to care about the months of work they and their American counterparts put into negotiations for side agreements that he had suggested might help convince him to stay in the deal. Meanwhile, in Moscow, Putin began his fourth term in office this week with a chance to show that unlike the U.S., Russia does abide by international promises like the Iran agreement. The accord was useful for Russia because it wanted to avoid more countries gaining nuclear weapons and thereby making one of its own assets less valuable. “It never really was comfortable with Iran’s potential for breakout,” said Michael Stephens of the Royal United Services Institute in London. But a world in which U.S. credibility is in the gutter and the deal is in tatters is hardly a nightmare scenario for Putin. As the U.S. puts more economic pressure on Iran, the Islamic republic will find it harder to acquire friends. That leaves Tehran with Moscow. Though the two are uneasy partners, they have cooperated to combat international initiatives that might challenge their own interests. In Syria, for instance, they fight side-by-side and present a united front in global organizations to defend their mutual friend Syrian President Bashar Assad. Hard-liners in Tehran want to deepen that relationship. In the process, they seek to boost the sense of righteous resistance to the West that keeps aggressive nationalism strong among their base and ensure that their country remains a Putin-style autocratic society, rather than gaining more exposure to the Western liberties that many ordinary Iranians have clamored for. A more isolated and paranoid Iran means “the Russians gain geostrategically,” said Reza Marashi, the research director at the National Iranian American Council and a former State Department official. The United States, he added, is helping reinforce a perception that the Russians want to strengthen: that today Washington may hold sway in the southern half of the Middle East, but the north ― including key areas in Syria, Iraq, Iran and Turkey ― is under Moscow’s influence. And that plays precisely into what Putin deeply desires ― to make Russia, 27 years after the fall of the Soviet Union, once again look like an equal to the U.S.
Anushay Hossain is a writer and political commentator based in Washington. For more, visit AnushaysPoint.com. The opinions expressed are her own. (CNN) Roseanne Barr went too far. And after a ferocious wave of Twitter censure against Barr for a racist tweet -- and writer Wanda Sykes' announcement that she was quitting the show -- ABC finally stepped up to do the obvious right thing: cancel its money-making sitcom. Anushay Hossain Perhaps Barr could use the rest of the day to attend Starbucks' racial bias training. The actress and comedian, who has a Twitter following of 667,000 -- and until today, a highly rated TV program -- appeared to have sensed that this time she went too far when she had tweeted Tuesday morning of Valerie Jarrett: "Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj" The blowback caused her to apologize for the tweet about Jarrett — a businesswoman, civic leader and former senior Obama administration official. She also offered a faux apology to Chelsea Clinton, whom she had also abused in a tweet Tuesday , along with George Soros. (Here is that apology: @ChelseaClinton @OpenSociety Sorry to have tweeted incorrect info about you!I Please forgive me! By the way, George Soros is a nazi who turned in his fellow Jews 2 be murdered in German concentration camps & stole their wealth-were you aware of that? But, we all make mistakes, right Chelsea?) Sorry to have tweeted incorrect info about you!I Please forgive me! By the way, George Soros is a nazi who turned in his fellow Jews 2 be murdered in German concentration camps & stole their wealth-were you aware of that? But, we all make mistakes, right Chelsea? — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018 We can't know what to make of this one famous woman: Her vile and racist tweet storm does not tell us anything we didn't already know about her. The best we can do here is address what her tweets, and how we respond to them, tell us about ourselves. Read More
(CNN) Texas Gov. Greg Abbott unveiled a plan Wednesday to improve school safety, including allowing law enforcement officers to take breaks and fill out reports in schools and increasing the number of armed school marshals in classrooms. "This plan is a starting point, not an ending place," Abbott told reporters in Dallas less than two weeks after authorities say a teenager shot and killed 10 people at Santa Fe High School. "This plan puts the state on a pathway to ensure healthier families, safer schools and safer communities in the state of Texas." Known as the governor's School and Firearm Safety Action Plan, the 40-page list of recommendations includes more than $120 million in funding from various sources for increased law enforcement presence in schools and training for armed marshals. "As one Santa Fe student said ... arming teachers and not knowing who is armed, that is what we need," Abbott said. "When an active shooter situation arises, the difference between life and death can be a matter of seconds. Trained security personal can make all the difference." Abbott proposed "collaborative working agreements" between schools and law enforcement to include schools on regular patrols, allow officers to take breaks at schools and provide them with rooms to fill out police reports. "My plan increases the number of school marshals by training more school marshals this summer at no cost to schools and by proposing increasing the number of school marshals per campus," he said. The governor's plan calls for up to one marshal for every 100 students, allowing the marshals to carry their firearms and streamlining their training. The plan was announced a day after Santa Fe High students returned to the school south of Houston for the first time since the May 18 shooting. One Abbott proposal subject to legislative approval is a change to Texas' gun storage law. Currently, prosecutors can file a misdemeanor charge against a gun owner who failed to secure a weapon when a child under 17 gains access to a "readily dischargeable" firearm from that person's property. Abbott proposed changing the age limit to 18. The accused Santa Fe High shooter is 17. In addition, the governor -- a strong advocate for Second Amendment rights -- said the state would make about 100,000 gun locks available free of charge to Texans but use of the devices would not be mandatory. The plan also recommended $20 million for the expansion of mental health screening and services to help identify and remove students who pose "imminent threats of harm." The proposal includes strategies for "hardening" school buildings by reducing entrances and exits and the installation of "active shooter alarm systems" that would prevent students and staff from rushing out from classroom into the path of a shooter. Implementation of the plan would be left up to individual schools districts, Abbott said. Abbott's announcement followed a series of roundtable discussions between the Republican governor and shooting victims, parents, school officials, law enforcement experts and others on ways to curb violence in the classroom. Abbott said some proposals could be implemented by the start of the next school year. In a statement, Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence co-president Kris Brown criticized Abbott's plan, asking, "What are you planning to do about the guns?" Brown said it is "frighteningly easy for dangerous people to get access to a gun, and this proposal does little to stop that." Abbott's proposals were prompted by the slaying of 10 people and wounding of 10 others at Santa Fe High. Authorities said student Dimitrios Pagourtzis , 17, walked into the school with a shotgun and a pistol and killed eight students and two teachers. Charged with capital murder of multiple people and aggravated assault on a public servant, Pagourtzis has not entered a plea. The governor's sessions last week focused on gun regulations, mental health issues, the causes of gun violence and victims and their families. One of the participants, Round Rock police Chief Allen Banks, spoke of the dangers of allowing "somebody that is not proficient" with a firearm "in a position ... where they'll have to use deadly force." "Training has to be paramount," Banks said. Others spoke about the shortage of counselors to identify potential warning signs of violence in students. On Tuesday, Santa Fe High students, staff and parents attended a general assembly at the school with Abbott.
“Her disgusting comments and show are not fit for broadcast, and executives at Time Warner and TBS must demonstrate that such explicit profanity about female members of this administration will not be condoned on its network,” the press secretary added. In a statement to HuffPost, TBS also apologized: “Samantha Bee has taken the right action in apologizing for the vile and inappropriate language she used about Ivanka Trump last night. Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.” TBS, which airs “Full Frontal,” is a part of media conglomerate Turner, owned by Time Warner. The channel initially had the clip of Bee’s segment available online and has since taken it down. Bee’s apology has garnered huge and varied reactions on social media:
New York (CNN) On Tuesday, CNN Opinion published "Single, childless and nearing 40, I saw one real option," a personal essay by Sarah Lenti, a political strategist who decided to have children through in vitro fertilization (IVF). She writes: "I am a single mother by choice. Yet I was raised in a Christian, conservative home, where I grew up believing in the traditional family unit. And I was taught that there was an order to achieving it. First, fall in love. Second, marry a man. Third, start a family. Now in my fifth decade, only one has proven true for me -- and it isn't the first." Lenti's piece was the first of a CNN Opinion series, "What it's like to be me," which explores personal struggles Americans face in a time of social change. We asked you, CNN's audience, to share your stories of IVF and adoption through text message and WhatsApp -- and you responded with personal experiences that were as various as they were emotionally compelling. You shared with us stories of your joys and your struggles. You shared family photos -- and some of you even sent us videos about your families' journeys. Here they are. Yazmil: Bronx, New York Yazmil with her daughter at 9 months "The article I just read in CNN on a single mom by choice hit home. My daughter just turned 1 and I too began this journey a little less than two years ago. I will be 38 in May and I always wanted a family. I dated someone long-term and when that relationship ended, by the time I finished licking my wounds, I was 36 with no prospects. I went on every online dating site and never met anyone worth my time. I decided to give insemination a try. I conceived relatively quickly. It was the best decision for me. I know another friend who went this route and after sharing my story many more friends are interested in becoming single moms by choice. It's not that I don't want a partner, I just didn't want my opportunity to become a mother to pass me by in the meantime. "(The article) made me happy to know that more women are not afraid to say how they conceived their babies outside of "traditional relationships." That we are taking control of our lives, our fertility and bringing babies into this world that are wanted and loved before they are even conceived." Tony and Brian: New Jersey Tony and Brian with their daughter, Chelsea. "Blessed and fortunate to have my own modern family thanks to surrogacy. "Our dream of having a baby started in 2014, the year we got married. We found a surrogacy agency in an IVF practice in Connecticut. We were matched with our first surrogate in 2015 and she got pregnant right away, but sadly she had a miscarriage at eight-and-a-half weeks. We were devastated and upset, naturally, but we knew we didn't want to give up because we really wanted to have a baby. So we waited and we tried again and were matched with another surrogate in 2016 and she also got pregnant right away, but this time she carried the baby to 38-and-a-half weeks and we had Chelsea. "We feel really lucky and fortunate to have Chelsea because we know how difficult it can be to have a baby in untraditional ways. Even if you have all the means and resources necessary that doesn't always guarantee a baby. " Jo Zmood: New York City Jo Zmood and her son. "My name is Jo Zmood. I am a single mum of two now. Originally from Australia -- hence "mum" not "mom." I've lived in New York for 10 years, and while there are many books out there that talk about different types of families I couldn't quite find the right book to share with my son to provide him some explanation of my choice to bring him into this world alone. So I wrote my own story for him. The article inspired me to share it. "He never asked any questions and understands some of his friends have dads and some don't. I wanted to answer his question of why he doesn't, regardless of whether the question is posed. And to let him know the subject was not taboo." A page from the book Jo Zmood wrote for her son. Kim Overton: Austin, Texas Photos: Miracle through Surrogacy In 2010, Kim Overton became a "solo starter" -- choosing to have a child on her own without a significant other in her life. She had her first child at 39 through IVF in 2010. When she tried for a second child, however, she was unable due to fibroids. That's when she began to consider surrogacy. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Miracle through Surrogacy After an emotional time trying to find a surrogate, Kim's cousin's daughter, Cydnee, offered to do it. After two unsuccessful transfers of embryos from Kim's eggs and other disappointments, Cydnee became pregnant. This is the moment Kim and her husband first saw the baby's head as he started to crown. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Miracle through Surrogacy "This picture says it all. Simply elated," Kim says of the moment when her son, Oliver, came into the world. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Miracle through Surrogacy "The birth of Oliver came after three years of an emotional roller coaster ride with extreme highs and lows," Kim remembers Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Miracle through Surrogacy "Surrogacy can be just as special and beautiful as a natural pregnancy and birth, and without it, our son Oliver would not be here today," Kim says Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Miracle through Surrogacy Kim hugs her surrogate Cydnee. " I was beyond grateful for her incredibly selfless act," Kim recalls of this moment, "and relieved that the long haul was finally over." Hide Caption 6 of 6 "During the three years I struggled to get pregnant with my second child as a solo parent, people close to me asked if I should consider the failed pregnancies a sign to give up. I was not giving up. The years of navigating fibroid tumors, surgeries and infertility finally came to an end with the birth of my second son, Oliver. He was born with my eggs and the help of my cousin as my surrogate. My journey as a solo parent also ended when I met my husband right before learning my surrogate was pregnant with Oliver. We were both solo parents in our 40s and had never been married before. Our journey to building a family may not have taken a typical path, but what we have today is my dream come true." Kim Overton writes about her experience on her website. *** Every family is different: Share your story of how IVF, adoption or your unique family structure has shaped your life with #ToBeMe or text/WhatsApp us on +1-347-322-0415 *** Vicki: Duluth, Minnesota Vicki and some members of her family. "When I was younger I was told that I didn't have enough estrogen to be able to carry a pregnancy. My ex-husband couldn't have children either so we adopted two babies within three years. The marriage ended a few years later and I remarried the following year. My new husband and I started our married life with two 4-year-olds and a 2-year-old. "Then the surprises came. I had babies at age 35, 39, and 46 -- -- all conceived the old-fashioned way!" Elisabeth Szentkereszty de Zagon: Brussels, Belgium Elisabeth and her daughter Lynne enjoy a duck tour on a visit to Boston. "I am a US-Belgian dual citizen, single mom, living in Brussels After many failed attempts (albeit fun) at a real relationship, I decided to have a child on my own. Having a supportive family, especially my sister living in Belgium, was one of the reasons I did not hesitate to go solo. "When the adoption agency called me saying that they had received the picture of my daughter, I ran to go see her photo. "After an exhausting trip, arrived late into the night in Changsha, capital of the Hunan province, we went to the office of child affairs, or something of the sort, and each waited until we were called and they brought the babies out one by one. I looked at her as they were putting her in my arms, the most amazing and unreal feeling possible. She cried right away and I put a pacifier in her mouth and it calmed her right away. "What I remember most, is putting her on a chair in the hotel room and just staring at this little bundle of baby and saying, I cannot believe she is mine! The wait had not been too long (seven months for China to pair me up with Lynne and from the start of the process of first meeting with the agency to the file being sent was about 12 months, so all in all, about one-and-a-half years -- so not too long)." "Although she's a typical teenager, we have a lot of good times," Elisabeth says of her daughter Lynne. "She got attached to me immediately and when we were in the dining hall, I could not even leave her in her buggy to get food, she had to come with me and see me. The nannies had told me that she was always crawling behind one or the other person at the orphanage so she had to be in someone's company at all times. "She still does not like being alone! She loves being close to me and needs company to be happy, even if now, as a teen, she can spend hours in her room doing who knows what! I call her my little pot of glue. "Adopting is not easy. I mean being a single mom, making all the decisions, is hard. And having a smart child, ahead of her years for some things, is challenging to say the least. Also, an abandoned child's brain develops differently and this is why sometimes, they rebel against us and make life very hard. They try, albeit unconsciously, to do all they can to push us away. They are repeating the abandonment they felt as a child. But you have to hold fast, hold on and show you are always there. But it's tough when they bite and scratch and break things, kick you etc ... But with the help of family, psychologists and relational therapy, you get it done. And now, although she's a typical teenager, we have a lot of good times. "What she wants the most is spending time with me, so when we can, we travel. We've been to Burkina Faso, Mexico, China (went back to do some volunteer teaching for 3 months in 2009 near Qingdao), all over Europe, California, New York, Atlanta, South Carolina, Boston, Cuba ... She has a map on her wall with pins of all the places she's been. We'd like to go to Japan next! "All in all, being a mom is the toughest job. It is also the most rewarding. I do not know how they decide which parent gets which child in China, but I would not have wanted any other. It had to be her, no one else. I love her with all my heart. And I do get the love back. Those few moments when she shows her love with no boundaries are worth all the pain I go through to be her mom. I'd do it all the same if I had to. Would not change a thing!" Dr Fan Zhou McAllen: Texas Dr. Fan Zhou and Miriam Zhou's son, Tuko. "We have the most beautiful miracle from IVF. Go Science! I'm a Chinese dentist, mom is a Hispanic dietitian. My wife had endometriosis, hence we needed IVF. "Tuko has been to six countries before he turned 2 -- proud papa!" Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Kristen Kane: Cleveland, Ohio Kristen Kane and her son, Elijah. "I am a single parent by choice. I decided at 25 that I wanted to adopt. It was something that was important to me, so I did. Not all of my family and friends were on board, but I knew it's what I was meant to do. The process was faster and smoother than I could have ever imagined. My son was in my arms just four months after my home study was completed. We maintain a relationship with his birth family, which I am very thankful for. Although it hasn't been easy, it has been worth it. He brings so much joy to myself and my family. He's such a wonderful, loving little boy. Even those that weren't on board with my choice to pursue adoption at such a young age are just simply amazed at how incredibly perfect he is for our family. We love him with every ounce of our being. "The one aspect of the adoption that I feel I wasn't prepared for was the current environment that I am raising a black son in. I have always tried to be a strong advocate for the AA community and to stay educated, but never really understood what it meant to be black in America until I saw the world through my son's eyes. Although I still don't fully understand, as I myself am shielded with my own privilege, my eyes have been opened. Sometimes painfully so. I worry about him every day. But, he is my world and I would do it again in a heart beat."
Paris (CNN) A young Malian migrant who rescued a child dangling from a balcony will be made a French citizen and has been offered a job by the Paris fire brigade, the office of the French presidency said. Video of the rescue showed 22-year-old Mamoudou Gassama climbing up four floors of the apartment building in just seconds to rescue the child, to cheers from onlookers. By the time Parisian emergency services arrived at the building, he had already pulled the child to safety. President Emmanuel Macron invited Gassama to the Élysée Palace on Monday, where he was given a certificate and a gold medal for performing an act of courage and dedication. Gassama told Macron: "I didn't think about it, I climbed up and God helped me."
Petros, Tennessee (CNN) Fifty years ago, a career criminal named James Earl Ray traveled from Atlanta to Memphis, stalking the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. The civil rights leader was there to energize a strike of sanitation workers asking for better working conditions and higher pay. Ray was there to assassinate him. While King stood on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel (now a museum for peace), Ray accomplished his sinister goal with a single shot from more than 200 feet away. Over the next two months, while on the FBI's 10 Most Wanted Fugitives List, Ray was on the run, traveling to Europe on a false passport. He was eventually caught at London's Heathrow Airport. He pleaded guilty to avoid a jury trial and the death penalty, was sentenced to 99 years and sent to Brushy Mountain State Penitentiary in eastern Tennessee, surrounded by thick wooded hills. In its day, it was considered one of the toughest state prisons, where inmates frequently killed each other. In the novel "The Silence of the Lambs," Dr. Hannibal Lecter negotiates a transfer to the prison. Brushy was also nearly impossible to escape, but Ray managed it with the help of six other convicts in 1977. All were recaptured within days, though "rescued" is probably the better description. Cold, hunger and disorientation brought them to their knees, and their own fiction-worthy plot turned from "The Great Escape" to "Blair Witch Project." Ray himself traveled only 8 miles in a little over two days, a detail that made one local long-distance runner, Gary Cantrell, think to himself that he could make it 100 miles in that amount of time. And thus the seed of the Barkley Marathons was planted. Man vs. land Cantrell, whose nickname is "Lazarus Lake," or "Laz" as he is known by everyone, was further inspired to start his own race by this rugged land he knew so well. The name "brushy" is fitting for a rural area thick with undergrowth, briars and hidden obstacles that inflict cuts, bruises and falls. It's so dense, you can't see the top of any of the peaks from the bottom. These mountains, where a day hike can be a challenge, are where truly competitive racing should be held, he thought, not on a flat, paved, well-marked course. The Barkley consists of five loops of 20 miles each (though runners swear it's more like a marathon-length 26 miles). All told, it has about 67,000 feet of elevation -- from sea level to the peak of Mount Everest is 29,000 feet -- not that the other 67,000 feet of descent are much easier. Photos: The world's hardest ultramarathon The Barkley Marathons consists of five loops, 20 miles each, along unmarked trails in rural Tennessee, with about 67,000 feet of elevation. Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: The world's hardest ultramarathon Runners must trace the course from a topographical map hours before the race begins. Four or five pages of enigmatic and wry instructions are also handed out. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: The world's hardest ultramarathon If accepted into the race, runners get a "letter of condolence." They're told the date of the race and must bring a license plate of some variety to the race site. Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: The world's hardest ultramarathon A conch is blown one hour before the race starts, but that can be anywhere between midnight and noon. The race's creator, known to everyone there as Laz, reads the names of former racers who died, and a bugler plays taps, the traditional song of military funerals. Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: The world's hardest ultramarathon No GPS or phones are allowed on the race. The only permitted technology is a cheap watch from Walmart, handed out by Laz to each runner and synchronized to his watch. The cutoff time is 60 hours. Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: The world's hardest ultramarathon Though most other distance races -- with their clear routes, aid stations, teams of helpful volunteers and throngs of encouraging spectators -- are designed so racers finish, the Barkley is designed so racers fail. Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: The world's hardest ultramarathon Barkley runners jump into a creek and wade through a tunnel that goes under Brushy Mountain State Penitentiary. It was the prison escape of James Earl Ray -- who assassinated Martin Luther King Jr. -- that helped inspire the race. Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: The world's hardest ultramarathon The race checkpoints are unmanned and in the form of paperback books. You rip out the page that corresponds to your bib number to prove you reached it. The books often have tongue-in-cheek titles. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: The world's hardest ultramarathon Of more than a 1,000 who've entered, only 15 have completed the full distance in time. This year, the longest distance any racer made was completing three loops. Hide Caption 9 of 9 The loops are run back to back over three sleepless days and nights, on unmarked trails. Runners must trace the course from a topographical map hours before the race begins. Most other distance races -- with their clear routes, aid stations, teams of helpful volunteers and throngs of encouraging spectators -- are designed so racers finish, but the Barkley is designed so racers fail. And fail they do. Of more than 1,000 who've entered, only 15 have completed the full distance in time. "It's a good place for your ego to take a beating," Laz said before this year's race, sporting a red beanie labeled "Geezer." His insightful quips are often followed by a cackle of delight, like the Yoda of the runner's world. Among ultramarathoners, the Barkley is considered one of the hardest -- a superlative that is subjective, of course. There are footraces that cross deserts, traverse tall mountains and even go greater distances than Barkley's 100 or 130 or so miles. But it's the unique combination of impediments, punishing conditions and lack of assistance that makes this race the stuff of legend. It's even the subject of a documentary; a cameraman had to be rescued by rangers more than 12 hours after he got lost. It's only in the face of such opposition that the highest peak physical and mental experiences are achieved. That's the idea, anyway. Among ultramarathoners and elite trail runners, the Barkley is the Holy Grail of races. How it works (or doesn't) For a competition that thumbs its nose at conventional rules, this anti-race race does have a number of parameters in which it operates (not written down, of course), all to maximize the challenge. Some of the choice unwritten rules include: No GPS or phones. The only permitted technology is a cheap watch from Walmart, handed out by Laz to each runner and synchronized to his watch. Unmanned checkpoints (13 this year), which are paperback books. You rip out the page that corresponds to your bib number to prove that you reached it. You must have all the book pages in hand at the end of each loop. The books are hidden under rocks or taped to trees, usually. 60-hour cutoff. Two years ago, Gary Robbins got turned around in his exhaustion with only 2 miles to go, arriving at the campground a few seconds over time, disqualified not just for missing the time cutoff but for going off-route. Two years ago, Gary Robbins got turned around in his exhaustion with only 2 miles to go, arriving at the campground a few seconds over time, disqualified not just for missing the time cutoff but for going off-route. No aid stations. Philosophical Laz: "Being totally free doesn't come without risk." Philosophical Laz: "Being totally free doesn't come without risk." No outside assistance. No friends and family to meet you with food or socks except at the camp between loops. No hints as to the location of checkpoints or map secrets. This year's theme, according to cackling Yoda-esque Laz: "Help is not coming." Start time TBD. A conch is blown one hour before the race starts, but that can be anywhere between midnight and noon. "The uncertainty is half the fun," Laz said with a chortle, "and one of the hardest things to deal with." Entry fee is $1.60, a pair of socks (this year) and an essay. Other ultras charge hundreds of dollars, but Laz isn't in it for the money, though he's partial to a specific brand of dress sock. Thousands apply every year, and only 40 are chosen. Just figuring out how to apply is a challenge: There's no website, email or physical address posted anywhere. Laz, as he is known by everyone, was inspired to create the Barkley Marathons by the local land and a prison escape by Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassin. Would-be runners write an essay on why they should be allowed to compete, and Laz chooses among these, factoring in their arguments or, in some cases, poetry but also their proven ability to endure. Finishers tend to have bona fides that include setting speed records on famous long-distance national trails or climbing the highest peaks in the world. If accepted, runners get a "letter of condolence" and told the date of the race (also a secret), and they must bring a license plate of some variety to the race site that are strung up in walls of metallic memory. 'Good luck, morons' This year's lucky (or maybe unlucky) runners -- 31 men, nine women -- gathered on a chilly April evening at a campground at Frozen Head State Park the day before the race. A single copy of the course map sat on a table as runners took turns tracing the route on their own topographical maps. The route changes in parts from year to year, and sometimes a peak is added. Veterans know to laminate them in clear tape to avoid disintegration from the elements. Four or five pages of Laz's enigmatic and wry instructions are also handed out. These mainly help runners find the checkpoint books, which often have tongue-in-cheek titles such as "Where Do We Go From Here" and "A Time to Die." I asked one runner whether I could take a quick look at the instructions, and he seemed wary of handing over such well-kept secrets to a representative of a global media organization. One (non-identifiable) passage read, "You will be able to make out the trail that climbs directly to pulloff, unless it is foggy, then you will have to guess." Chicken and beans, cooked over an open fire, were served as part of a potluck the evening before the race started. There is little to no alcohol, as that's not conducive to running 100-plus miles. Runners greet each other warmly and exchange war stories of past Barkleys. It's a rarified club to which they belong. A cake read, "Good luck, morons." Because you don't know when the race is going to start, it makes for a fitful night's sleep, lest you miss the sound of the conch. This sleep-depriving FOMO was exacerbated by the cacophony of heavy rain pounding on the tents most of the night. Mercifully, or just randomly, Laz gave everyone a full night of whatever sleep they could get, and the conch was blown at 8:30 a.m., under clear skies. When runners gathered an hour later to start, Laz gave few remarks, none particularly encouraging. After reading the names of Barkley veterans who died over the years, Laz removed his hat, and a bugler played taps, the traditional song of military funerals. Tradition dictates that the start of the race is signaled by Laz lighting a Camel cigarette. Runners started trotting past him as he made his first exhale. The course begins with a steady incline that will reach 1,600 feet of elevation within just the first mile and a half or, as Laz described it, "the easiest hill they'll do all day. After that, it turns ugly." Although he's done his fair share of endurance running (including a 318-mile course) and long-distance hiking (he's currently walking from Tennessee to Oregon), Laz has never competed in the Barkley himself. Neither has his friend Barry Barkley, for whom he named the race. '4/5 Pure Joy, 1/5 Pure Hell' The details of the race are a well-guarded secret, and they won't be divulged here. The names of landmarks in the instructions -- Quitter's Road, Rat Jaw -- don't correspond to labels on any official map. The one portion that's not a secret is Brushy Mountain State Penitentiary, which closed for prison business in 2009. Barkley runners jump into a creek and wade through a tunnel that goes under the jail, emerging just steps away from the wall that Ray and his fellow escapees jumped. You can arrange a tour inside the crumbling prison. Ray's cell was No. 27. My guide repeated that the place is haunted without a wink or any indication that she was kidding. The race takes place every spring, a season when weather fluctuates from warm and muggy one hour to freezing and wet the next. Some years, there has been snow to run through and temperatures 10 degrees below freezing. "This is the only place you can have 45-mile-per-hour winds and pea soup fog," Laz said, pausing for his punch line: "at the same time." This year, it started pleasantly cool and cloudy, but rain and cold punished them as the hours went by. Between each loop, runners will eat, doctor their feet, maybe steal a quick nap. Some rest at base camp as little at 15 minutes, others an hour before being given a new bib number (to get a new page from the checkpoints). The direction of the race changes between loops as well, adding another level of difficulty and more orienteering. In the first four loops, two are clockwise, two counter-clockwise. If more than one runner makes it to the fifth loop, each runner is sent in opposing directions for the final marathon. No one made it past three loops this year. Just over half made it to the second loop, five made it to the third loop, and only one finished the third. As racers dropped out, a bugler played taps. Like some previous years, it was played 40 times. Laz thought two factors that led to the lack of finishers this year were the weather and that he chose fewer Barkley veterans than usual. Finishing is so rare, there is a web page of quotes on what the experience was like. Brett Maune, 2011's only finisher, calculated "4/5 Pure Joy, 1/5 Pure Hell." Andrew Thompson finished in 2009, after setting the speed record for the 2,160-mile Appalachian Trail in 47½ days. "Finishing [the Barkley] was not at all what I expected," he wrote. "All the emotion and hoopla and sense of accomplishment with which I had begun Loop 5 were quickly worn down to nubs. The 'victory' lap quickly turned into survival mode. I was sick, and cold, and damn happy to be done." Only one person, Jared Campbell, has finished the race three times. "I am thrilled," he said after finishing in 2016, "setting a new personal standard for how much adventure I can extract out of $1.60." In 2014, he was more philosophical: "There are lessons in life that can only be learned through fairly massive deviations from our normal, comfortable routines. They can sharpen our optimism and generate a deeper appreciation for the simple things in life." And in 2012, he was nearly psychedelic: "Due to some extreme foot pain (skin) and sleep deprivation I experienced an incredible distillation of my physical and mental self down to a few basic senses and thoughts, which was both an educational and beautiful experience." In 2013, finisher Nickademus Hollon quoted Plato: "The first and greatest victory is to conquer yourself." 'A different breed' To reach the Barkley, you will have done massive amounts of trail and endurance running -- even for the annual "human sacrifice," as Laz playfully labels one person who he predicts doesn't have the right stuff. But if you're just getting into trail running or adventure racing, you have to put in your vertical hours. Many long-distance runners train in intervals, also known as periodization, building strength by alternating hard and easy weeks of exertion and recovery. Most of the runners in the Barkley run ultra-distances year-round so don't need a training program that starts with short runs. In the case of the Barkley or other unmarked trail races, it is also essential to be able to read a topographical map, something of a dying skill as technology and a lack of wooded adventure rob us of it. Unlike the documentary crew member and King's killer, no Barkley runner has ever got so lost in the area's woods (Laz: "100% self-extraction") that they needed rescuing before they faced starvation or hypothermia. Although GPS devices aren't allowed in the Barkley, plenty of other gear is, including compasses, walking sticks and trail running backpacks with food and water. Many long-distance runners prefer quality, thick-soled shoes; a light but warm jacket for nights and peaks; a hydration pack; portable food; salt tablets; and a powerful headlamp for night running. Unlike other ultramarathons, this one does not have gear requirements. These runners know what they're doing. Training in the sport also includes learning how to avoid injuries, but that's not always possible. Injuries such as cuts and sprains are typical on the Barkley, but nothing has ever halted a runner in their tracks. The worst injury was a kneecap that "snapped in two," Laz said, and the runner still finished the loop. "It's a different breed," he cackled. though some wounds were inflicted by the obstacles of trail running. Among the 1,212 active ultrarunners in the study, injuries were also more prevalent among younger (under age 40), less-experienced runners. Most (64.6%) reported an exercise-related injury that resulted in lost training days over the previous year, but that didn't translate to additional missed days at work. The most common injuries were of the knee and foot stress fractures. Ultrarunners suffer about the same frequency of injuries as shorter-distance runners, according to a recent study by the University of California, Davis and Stanford University,though some wounds were inflicted by the obstacles of trail running. Among the 1,212 active ultrarunners in the study, injuries were also more prevalent among younger (under age 40), less-experienced runners. Most (64.6%) reported an exercise-related injury that resulted in lost training days over the previous year, but that didn't translate to additional missed days at work. The most common injuries were of the knee and foot stress fractures. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. That study also found that while ultrarunners tended to be older than the general running population, they had fewer incidents of heart disease and other chronic conditions. They were more likely than the general population to have allergies, hay fever and exercise-induced asthma, probably due to high levels of exposure to pollen-gifting nature. In general, running is outstanding cardio exercise, benefiting much of the body and tied to greater health outcomes than the general population. As for the mental rewards -- well, that's a journey that is as unique as the individual and certainly not guaranteed. A "sense of accomplishment" is an expression that grossly undersells the thrill of finishing a race as special and difficult at the Barkley. And yet to get to whatever personal heaven awaits you at the finish line, it most certainly means going through hell to get there.
FIRs filed on complaints by three tehsildar's in Tamil Nadu's Thoothukudi has revealed that they had ordered police firing during anti-Sterlite protests in the city on May 22 and 23 that claimed the lives of 13 civilians. The Hindu reported that the three FIRs were filed in Thoothukudi Sipcot, Thoothukudi North and Thoothukudi South police stations by Special Deputy Tahsildar (Election) P Sekar, Thoothukudi Zonal Deputy Tahsildar M Kannan and Thoothukudi Divisional Excise Officer S Chandran respectively. In all the FIRs, the government officials have claimed that the crowd marched with "deadly weapons" and petrol bombs. They claimed that the police had tried to disperse the crowd in vain and that is when they had to direct the police to open fire. NDTV reports that in his FIR, Sekhar has said that the police made an announcement before they opened fire at the protesters which the protesters had ignored. The Tamil Nadu state government, in the aftermath of the deaths last week, had said similar things last week when police action and the death of civilians drew severe criticism. It had said that protesters turned violent, setting fire to police vehicles, which left the police with "no choice" but to resort to lathicharge and firing. The FIRs pretty much toe that line. The New Indian Express reports that while Kannan admitted to ordering the police to open fire in Threspuram, Chandran ordered the police to open fire on May 23. However, eyewitness accounts tell a different story. Different reports quoted eyewitnesses as saying that the police did not make an announcement before firing, nor did they use rubber bullets is required by law. NDTV quoted an eyewitness on the condition of anonymity as saying, "For hundred days there was no violence even when larger crowds had congregated. Do you think we would bring out little children if we had any plans for violence." K Samuel Raj of Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front told The Hindu, describing the death of a protester, "According to her family and eyewitness accounts, a police vehicle came with sirens when a group of people at Threspuram was discussing the morning's events. As the crowd dispersed, the police attacked the houses and damaged properties. Jansi was shot from the police van when she yelled using curse words." Videos of two incidents that had gone viral after last week's incidents show that the way the police treated the protesters. In one a police officer was heard saying that he wished at least one person should die in the firing, in another video the police were seen poking a dying man with their lathis asking him to 'stop acting' and leave.
Waverly, Ohio (CNN) On the eve of Memorial Day weekend, Jennifer Slone wants you to know that bug bites are more than just itchy. They can be deadly. And they're pretty easy to avoid. For two weeks last summer, Slone, a librarian from Waverly, Ohio, languished in the hospital as doctors struggled to get her fever down from over 104 degrees. She developed meningitis. Her liver was suffering. She became septic, an infection raging through her bloodstream. She needed three blood transfusions. "I was petrified," said her husband, Nick. "I thought this was it, this was the end." Slone did survive and, after 11 days in the hospital, much of which she doesn't remember, was able to go home. "I am so happy to be alive!" she wrote on Facebook after she got out of the hospital. Slone said she still finds it hard to wrap her head around the fact that a bug bite got her so sick. "I grew up my whole life running around with ticks on me, and I never thought anything of it," said Slone, 36. "But this was just one extremely special tick." Or perhaps not so special. This month, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned that diseases from ticks and mosquitoes are on the rise From 2004 to 2016, the number of tick-borne disease cases grew from 22,527 to 48,610, according to a CDC report. During that time period, the number of cases of mosquito-borne diseases jumped from 4,858 to 47,461. Nine of the 16 diseases included in the study are relatively new, having been identified only since 2004. One of the new diseases is a variant of ehrlichiosis, the infection Slone suffered. Scientists think it's going to get even worse. Maps show that by 2080, tick habitats are expected to include much of the eastern half of the country. The maps are part of a 2014 report by the US Global Change Research Program, a government agency, which concludes that climate change is one reason for the increase in disease-bearing ticks and mosquitoes. The University of Massachusetts is ground zero for tick research. Every week, thousands of people from across the country send ticks to its TickReport program to be tested for diseases. This helps people know what kind of medical treatment they might need. "It's important to know early, because most of these diseases can be treated more effectively if they're treated early," said Stephen Rich, a microbiologist and director of TickReport. A tick at the University of Massachusetts' TickReport laboratory. Symptoms of tick-borne illness often look like the flu or other sicknesses, so unless a doctor asks about a tick bite, a patient might not receive the right treatment, Rich said. Thankfully, when Slone showed up at the emergency room at Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center with a high fever and vomiting, doctors thought to ask whether she'd been bit by a tick. She told them she remembered taking one off her stomach weeks before. Doctors started her on the antibiotic doxycycline. It took several days for the antibiotic to bring her fever down, and three months for her to fully recover. Her illness was first reported in the Pike County News Watchman Slone thinks the tick bit her in her yard or her friend's yard. At first, after she recovered, she was nervous about going outside. But she loves gardening, and she wanted to dress up the yard in her family's new home. "I've decided I love nature, and I am not going to let something like this make me afraid," she said. "Other people shouldn't be afraid of nature either as long as you take the necessary precautions." Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. That includes wearing long sleeves and long pants. She tucks her shirt into her pants and her pants into her boots to make sure bugs don't creep up her belly or legs. She sprays herself with an insect repellent that includes DEET or another chemical approved by the US Environmental Protection Agency and checks her entire body after coming inside from the yard or a walk in the woods. "It would be terrible to get sick when it's so easily preventable," Slone said. "This is more serious than people recognize."
Thanks to the invention of cupholders, we can all safely drink coffee while we drive. And now, thanks to a new app from GM, we can safely order coffee from Starbucks (SBUX) and Dunkin' Donuts (DNKN) while we drive. The new technology will let drivers do everything from ordering hot wings to booking a hotel room or reserving a table at Applebee's -- all without even having to pull over. If you own a 2017 or 2018 model year Chevrolet, Buick, GMC or Cadillac, you might see a new icon on your vehicle's central computer screen Tuesday morning. It's labeled Marketplace. With a few pokes of your finger you can order food or drinks, or reserve a table at one of several restaurants that have teamed up with GM. "For most retailers and consumer brands the daily commute is the only time not accessible in a consumers' day," said Santiago Chamorro, GM's vice president for Connected Customer Experience, in an announcement. "Marketplace gives merchants the ability to more safely engage with drivers and passengers in a meaningful way that provides true value for our customers." GM: The auto industry is changing. But we've got this In other words, until someone invents a way for you to buy stuff in your sleep, it is now possible to make a purchase at any given minute of the day. The system relies on "machine learning," taking cues your location and from how you've used the Starbucks or Dunkin' Donuts apps on your phone to decide which menu items to offer. Jake Fisher, head of auto testing for Consumer Reports, had a chance to try out the system on a Buick. "It does seem distracting," he said. But he admitted that it might not be much more distracting than all the other interactive widgets cars already have. Many cars come equipped with music apps such as Pandora or reservation apps like OpenTable, both of which let drivers poke through digital lists. These sorts of systems will probably become even more convenient, Fisher said, as the technology improves and more companies sign on. But making the systems work better just means that more people will use them, thereby increasing the potential for distraction. Vendors featured on the app include Wingstop, TGI Fridays, Shell, ExxonMobil, Priceline.com, Parkopedia, IHOP and Delivery.com. GM (GM) itself is also a vendor. Drivers can buy 4G data packages, extend their OnStar subscription and receive offers for parts and services while driving. You won't have to purchase a data plan to use Marketplace, though. It will be available to everyone with a late model GM car that has the required hardware. Over the next 12 to 18 months, the service will be rolled out to a total of about 4 million GM vehicles on U.S. roads.
Starbucks will close about 8,000 company-owned locations on Tuesday afternoon to offer 175,000 employees a mandatory anti-bias training. Most of the 7,000 licensed stores, including those operated by hotels, grocery stores and airports, should be open. Participating stores will close around 2 p.m. to 3 pm, local time. Here's what you need to know. Why is Starbucks doing this? Starbucks (SBUX) announced the training soon after two black men were arrested at a Philadelphia Starbucks in April. A store manager called the police because the men were sitting in the store without placing an order. They were arrested for trespassing. The men, who had previously asked for the code needed to use the store's bathroom, said they were waiting for a friend. Related: Starbucks will close 8,000 US stores May 29 for racial-bias training The incident sparked an outcry, and CEO Kevin Johnson swiftly apologized and promised to make sure that nothing like that would happen at a Starbucks again. The anti-bias training is one step toward making good on that promise. What's happening on Tuesday? Plans for the afternoon session are elaborate. Workers at each location will break into small groups to learn together. Starbucks Chairman Howard Schultz, Johnson and musician and activist Common will serve as virtual guides. Employees will talk about their own experiences, and watch a film about bias. The company explained that each store will get a tool kit to help guide the trainings. Tuesday's session will focus on understanding both racial bias and the history of racial discrimination in public spaces in the United States. Related: How Starbucks will train its staff to be less biased Starbucks tapped several experts and researchers to help develop the curriculum, including Sherrilyn Ifill, president and director-counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund and Heather McGhee, president of the public policy organization Demos. Ifill and McGhee, who both served as unpaid advisers, told reporters on a media call on Thursday that they think Starbucks' plan is ambitious. What else is Starbucks doing? The company has also changed its policy to allow people to use Starbucks' restrooms and spend time in stores, even if they haven't made any purchases. There are limits, however, and employees will still have to use their discretion. Starbucks is asking customers to behave in a way that "maintains a warm and welcoming environment." If customers are disruptive, employees have been advised to step in. The company offered specific guidelines in a document shared with workers. The list of inappropriate behaviors includes smoking, using drugs or alcohol, sleeping or improperly using the restroom. Starbucks added that if employees see customers who are unreasonably loud, watching something inappropriate on a personal device or disrupting others with their personal hygiene, they should step in. Related: Starbucks' new all-are-welcome policy: Now what? Starbucks advises employees to consider whether they'd be disturbed by the behavior in question if it was coming from a different customer. It also suggests that they consult colleagues to see if they agree the person is being disruptive. If so, employees are instructed to approach the customer and respectfully ask him or her to cease the offensive action while another employee watches. If a Starbucks employee thinks the situation isn't safe, he or she should call the police. The company is reviewing other policies, as well, and Starbucks management received a version of the bias training this week, Ifill told reporters. What's next? More trainings will follow, though it's unclear if stores will be closed again. And in the next few weeks, Ifill and McGhee will issue a report outlining a comprehensive set of issues they believe the company must address. They said they hope Starbucks will incorporate anti-bias training into its employee onboarding process to make sure that every employee is trained. They'll also be evaluating the trainings on Tuesday to see how workers respond. The advisers plan to hold Starbucks to a rigorous standard. "We've made it clear that we won't be a rubber stamp to validate their programming," McGhee said. The company plans to share its materials with the public after the training, and hopes that other businesses will make use of the tools in their own workplaces. It will share more information on Wednesday.
(CNN) In recent weeks, Israel has faced violence at the security fence separating our country from Gaza. Tens of thousands of Palestinians , incited by Hamas (which controls Gaza), have approached the fence -- some of them armed with guns, improvised explosive devices and Molotov cocktails to harm Israeli civilians -- to tear down any obstacle in their way and infiltrate Israel. Rioters have used burning tires and kites to set fires across Israel's southern farms and have succeeded at times at damaging critical civilian infrastructure. Hamas has coupled its violence with a widespread public relations effort aimed at repackaging the rioters as peaceful grass-roots-led protesters. Sadly, too many have fallen for Hamas' ploys. Instead of directing their condemnations at this internationally recognized terrorist organization for their war crimes against both Palestinians and Israelis, some countries and UN bodies have not only embraced Hamas' propaganda but have even criticized Israel's right to self-defense. The Human Rights Council in Geneva has already passed such a measure, and there are additional attempts underway right now to pass a UN Security Council resolution aimed at curbing Israel's legitimate rights. Such baseless charges against Israel are morally unjust. They are also a hindrance to those who truly seek to lower the tensions in the region. If the international community, starting with the United Nations, would instead rightfully choose to hold Hamas responsible for its war crimes and unequivocally condemn its dangerous behavior, then the United Nations and other international organizations could not only serve as a force for good but also enforce real change on the ground. Those who criticize Israel's legitimate actions of self-defense are either unware, or willfully ignorant of the clearly violent nature of what's happening at the Gaza border. After all, even a senior Hamas official, Salah al-Bardaweel, said openly that on the bloodiest day of these so-called protests, "In the last round 62 people were martyred; 50 of them are from Hamas." Statements such as these should prove to the world that in fighting back, Israel is defending itself from terrorists committing orchestrated attacks, and not from activists leading an innocent protest. There is no doubt that the current state of humanitarian affairs in Gaza is unacceptable. But the real tragedy is that this situation was -- and remains -- completely avoidable. Israel removed all Jewish communities and military facilities from Gaza as part of our 2005 disengagement plan . In the years following, we have facilitated the transfer of billions of dollars of direct and indirect aid for Gaza's local population. Only after Hamas overthrew the Palestinian Authority in 2007 and started using Gaza as a launching pad for terror attacks against Israeli civilians did Israel begin to limit border access to ensure that only aid truly intended for humanitarian purposes entered the territory. The United States, European Union, Russia and even the United Nations, as part of the Middle East Quartet framework formed to promote dialogue with the Palestinians, fully supported Israel's decision to monitor the entry and exit of goods into Gaza. These bodies recognized that such steps were, and continue to be, necessary to limit the power of a dangerous terrorist entity -- one that has launched thousands of rockets into Israel, and, according to our security forces, has stolen international aid dollars to fund its terror tunnel campaign. These are the very tunnels, dug into our territory, that Hamas has used time and again to attempt to attack Israeli targets rather than invest in the people of Gaza whose interests it purports to represent. Countries that criticize Israel must ask themselves how they would expect their security forces to react if terrorists armed with rifles and explosives marched on their borders. Knowing that Israel will never allow for a mass infiltration that would endanger our towns and villages just hundreds of meters from the fence, Hamas is intentionally sending Palestinians to their deaths. Then Hamas uses the deaths of these Palestinians for anti-Israel propaganda on the world stage. Hamas terrorists have destroyed and burned infrastructure along the fence, including the Kerem Shalom border-crossing terminal -- a major entry point for humanitarian aid into Gaza. These destructive activities have primarily hurt the Palestinian people , who will suffer even more while the electricity infrastructure and gas lines are repaired, costing millions of dollars. In pursuit of fulfilling its openly stated goal of destroying Israel, Hamas continues to commit the double war crime it has perfected over the years: attacking innocent Israelis and hiding behind civilians in Gaza. Put simply, Hamas values the deaths of both Israelis and Palestinians. As Yahya al-Sinwar, the head of Hamas in Gaza, said recently to a group of Palestinian youth, "We favor an assassination over a natural death and are always willing to sacrifice our lives." Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Members of the international community should not be falling prey to the lies of Hamas. The United Nations and others must use their power and resources to improve the situation on the ground in Gaza and enforce change. To do so they must start by condemning Hamas for attacking Israel and for holding the people of Gaza hostage. Such moral clarity will not only reinvigorate international institutions but also save lives on both sides of the fence.
Things were out of odor at a university library in Melbourne, Australia, on Saturday afternoon, with fears of a gas leak. But the smell that aroused suspicions was no leaky pipe. It was a notoriously stinky fruit. Around 500 students and staffers were evacuated from the RMIT University library so that 40 firefighters, including masked crews, could investigate the source of the smell, according to the Herald Sun. The culprit was a durian left rotting in a cupboard, Melbourne’s Metropolitan Fire Brigade said in a release. This sort of fruit-driven flight would surprise few who have come in contact with the durian, a native of Southeast Asia with an odor that has been compared to “turpentine and onions, garnished with a gym sock,” “hot poop garbage” and “gasoline.” Although aficionados relish durians for their creamy, sweet interior, the fruits are so polarizing that they’re banned from Singapore’s subway system and many hotels around Asia, according to Time. Once authorities knew there was no danger, the building was reopened. However, Victoria state’s Environment Protection Authority still had the task of removing the foul-smelling fruit from the premises, according to The Age.
(CNN) The battle between the parties for control of the closely divided US Senate has become a contest between the exception and the rule. The rule is that over the past quarter century, it has grown much more difficult for even the most talented Senate candidates to win in states that usually vote for the other party in presidential races. That trend, which is affecting both parties, has created a very narrow balance of power in the Senate -- and triggered frequent changes of partisan control -- because each side has established a natural advantage at the presidential level in about half the states. The paradox is that because the balance of power between the two parties is so precarious, the Senate majority now often tips based on the few exceptions to this pattern -- the candidates who find ways to win, in effect, behind enemy lines in states that usually back the other party's presidential nominees. This year, that test will fall primarily on the five Democratic senators seeking reelection in states that have invariably voted Republican for president in recent years. Five other Democrats are trying to hold seats in states that have been more evenly balanced between the parties, but which tipped to Donald Trump in 2016. By contrast, Dean Heller of Nevada is the only Republican this year defending a Senate seat in a state that Democrats have won in any of the past three presidential elections. Democrats have an outside chance of regaining the majority in November if they can win in Arizona and Tennessee, states that have leaned reliably Republican in recent presidential elections, but which may be offering new opportunities for the party amid the backlash to Trump among suburban voters and minorities alike. But given how many seats in red-leaning terrain Democrats must defend, the more achievable goal for them this year may be to avoid losses that put the Senate out of reach in 2020 when they will have more pick-up opportunities in states that lean their way in presidential races (Colorado and Maine), are already presidential battlegrounds (North Carolina and Iowa), or may be evolving in that direction (Georgia). The increasing alignment of states' presidential and Senate preferences reflects the broader decline in split-ticket voting over the past several decades. At its height in the 1970s, about one out of four voters typically voted for one party in the presidential election and the other party in Senate races, according to an analysis by Emory University political scientist Alan Abramowitz. US politics is more and more tribal But the increasingly partisan, even tribal, nature of modern politics has made split-ticket voting much more rare. More voters have started to treat both Senate and House races as quasi-parliamentary elections, viewing them less as a referendum on the merits of the individual candidates than as a choice on which party they prefer to control the chamber. The result, as I have written, is that for congressional candidates, the name on the back of a candidate's jersey now usually matters less than the color on the front of it. That trend becomes vividly apparent when looking at Senate results through the lens of how states have recently voted for president. One place to start is 1992, when Bill Clinton's first election shattered the GOP's dominance of the White House over the previous quarter century, and coalesced a new partisan alignment in which Democrats have carried the popular vote in six of the past seven presidential contests (though they have won the Electoral College, and thus the White House, just four times.) Over those seven elections starting with 1992, 24 states have voted Democratic at least four times. Democrats now hold 40 of their 48 Senate seats, or 83.3%. Over those seven presidential elections, 26 states have voted Republican at least four times. Republicans hold 43 of their 52 Senate seats, a virtually identical 82.6%. It may be somewhat outdated to characterize states based on their preferences since 1992, however, since Clinton managed to hold a number of blue-collar Southern and border states, including Arkansas, Kentucky, Louisiana and Tennessee. Each of those states has grown more reliably Republican since, as the GOP has deepened its hold on older, non-college educated, evangelical and rural white voters. Meanwhile, Colorado, Virginia and Nevada have migrated more reliably into the Democratic camp in presidential contests, amid growing racial diversity and declining Republican strength among well-educated whites. Democrats have more momentum, Republicans have a much better the map Comparing the party's Senate results to the presidential outcomes over the past three presidential elections may offer a more revealing map of the opportunities and challenges ahead for the parties. Measured against that yardstick, the relationship between presidential and Senate preferences remains very powerful. In the three presidential elections starting with 2008, 20 states have voted Democratic all three times: Democrats now hold 37 of their 40 Senate seats. The only Republicans left in these states are Heller, who faces a tough reelection battle this fall, as well as Cory Gardner of Colorado and Susan Collins of Maine, who will both face reelection in 2020. Six more states voted twice for Barack Obama but then flipped to Trump in 2016. The parties now evenly divide those states' Senate seats, holding six each. But Democrats in November will be defending five of their six seats in this category. In descending order of vulnerability, they include Bill Nelson in Florida and Tammy Baldwin in Wisconsin, followed by Sherrod Brown in Ohio, Bob Casey in Pennsylvania and Debbie Stabenow in Michigan. Republicans are not defending any of the seats they hold in these states. This is partially a matter of timing. Senators serve for six years in a term and Democrats are defending, for the second time, a number of the seats they won in 2006, when they took control of the Senate from Republicans. They lost control in 2014, when Republicans beat several Democrats who had been swept to victory during Barack Obama's resounding win in 2008. Republicans will defend their 2014 gains in 2020. Moving to the Republican side of the line, Indiana and North Carolina voted for Obama in 2008 but have backed the GOP candidate in the two elections since. Republicans already hold three of their four Senate seats and Democrats this fall will be defending their sole beachhead in this group: Joe Donnelly in Indiana. The main event in November's Senate election will unfold in the 22 states that have voted Republican in each of the past three presidential races. Republicans already hold 39 of those states' 44 Senate seats (almost 89%, or just slightly below the Democratic share in the 20 states they have carried three straight times). But Democrats this year must defend four of their five seats in this group. In descending order of vulnerability they include Claire McCaskill in Missouri, Joe Manchin in West Virginia, Heidi Heitkamp in North Dakota and Jon Tester in Montana. The twist is that even as Republicans press those opportunities, they must defend Senate seats in at least three other states they have won each time since 2008: Democrats are mounting strong challenges for open Senate seats in Arizona and Tennessee and have found a dynamic, though still long-shot challenger, in Beto O'Rourke in Texas. Even Mississippi might become a long-shot target for Democrats if Tea Party insurgent Chris McDaniel wins a primary later this year against Cindy Hyde-Smith, the more mainstream Republican that Gov. Phil Bryant recently appointed to succeed retiring Republican Sen. Thad Cochran. The long-term trajectory in these numbers is toward an unmistakable alignment between the way states vote in presidential and Senate elections. Yet because the parties hold a presidential edge in about the same number of states -- with perhaps just slightly more leaning toward Republicans at this point -- it's the small deviations from the overall trend that may decide Senate control in the years ahead. How to become the exception to the rule Three factors seem most important in shaping those exceptions and determining which side controls the upper chamber. One factor is which side wins what are often very close races in the remaining battleground states where neither side has established a consistent advantage at the presidential level. (I define those as the states that have voted two of the past three for either party, with the exception of Indiana, whose 2008 vote for Obama looks more like an anomaly over time.). Democrats missed a golden opportunity in 2016 to strengthen their hands in these battlegrounds when they failed to beat any of five Republican incumbents in Wisconsin, Ohio, Iowa, Pennsylvania and Florida -- partly because of Hillary Clinton's weakness, especially among blue-collar white voters, in those states. This year, Republicans face a comparable test against the five Democratic incumbents in the states that switched from Obama to Trump. The second key factor in shaping exceptions is candidates who can either slow or advance the clock in their state's political evolution. The candidates who have stopped the clock are Democrats like Manchin, Heitkamp, and McCaskill, and Republicans such as Collins, who are holding on in states that have long since tilted to the other side in presidential races. None are guaranteed success in their next election, but it's hard to imagine anyone else from their party holding their seats in the near future after they have left the Senate. Those who advance the clock are candidates who can establish an advance beachhead in states whose loyalties may be shifting at the presidential level. Kyrsten Sinema will try to do that for Democrats in Arizona this year, and the party is likely to make a serious run in 2020 at Republican David Perdue in Georgia. Conversely, it's easy to imagine Republicans making a big push in 2020 for a Senate seat in Minnesota, whose heavily blue-collar demographics will encourage Trump to vigorously contest it, though no Republican presidential nominee has won there since Ronald Reagan in 1980. Finally, timing matters. Incumbent senators from the party out of the White House have rarely lost in midterm elections since the 1990s. Abramowitz notes that in the 2006, 2010 and 2014 midterms, the only incumbent senators who lost were from the president's party. "If we were heading toward this midterm with Hillary Clinton in the White House most likely Democrats would be looking at losing several of those (red state) seats," he says. "The thing that is helping them out a lot is it's a midterm with an unpopular Republican president in the White House." In states that Democrats are defending such as West Virginia, North Dakota, Missouri and Indiana, Trump is more popular than he is nationally. But he may not be quite as strong even there as he was in 2016. And that small shift may be just enough to allow some of the red state Democrats to defy the mounting odds for senators trying to survive behind enemy lines.
Retired Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling is a national security, intelligence and terrorism analyst for CNN. He served for 37 years in the Army, including three years in combat, and retired as commanding general of US Army Europe and the 7th Army. He is the author of "Growing Physician Leaders." Opinions expressed in this commentary are solely his. (CNN) The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America started the hashtag campaign, #GoSilent for Memorial Day. They've asked citizens to take just one minute to reflect and honor fallen friends, family members and acquaintances lost in America's wars. But given the number of photos in a box I possess, one minute isn't quite enough. I wrote an article about that box for CNN.com last year. But there's more to tell about it. This box was one I saw in a cigar store window after returning from Iraq in 2004, and it seemed a perfect place to hold cards that bore pictures of our fallen comrades from a recent deployment. The cards with the pictures were the idea of our Division Commander, then-Major General Martin Dempsey. Marty is a soldier's soldier and like all great commanders he loves his troops. When a soldier made the ultimate sacrifice and we were about to honor him at a memorial service in Iraq, General Dempsey would ask his aide to laminate a picture of the fallen with specific relevant information: birthday, hometown, family information, date, time and place of death. He would give copies of these cards to his division command sergeant major and his two assistant division commanders -- then-Brigadier General Mike Scaparrotti and me. We would exchange looks and then whisper what would become our catchphrase during these memorial ceremonies: "Make it Matter." By the end of that tour in 2003-2004, we all held 121 cards. I bought four of these boxes, asked that the phrase "Make it Matter" be engraved on the lid, and then I sent them to the members of our team. We placed our cards inside and since then we all have given that box a place of honor in our offices or homes. All of us have had additional deployments and unfortunately have added more pictures to that box. Mine now has 253 cards. Last year I wrote about how the pictures in the box represent America's diversity. Given all that has transpired in our nation this year, now more than ever the pictures of those honored in this box should serve as a reminder of who we should try to be: A unique mix that makes our military -- and our country -- great. There are 20 African-American soldiers. Staff Sgt. Esau Patterson was a terrific young leader killed when his mounted patrol was attacked by a vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (VBIED). Sgt. First Class Miguel Wilson, weighted down by his gear, drowned while attempting to save one of his soldiers who had fallen off a patrol boat on the Euphrates River. Sgt. Edward Brooks was a tanker killed when a terrorist torched-off a suicide vest next to his tank. Private DeWayne White was killed when his Quick Reaction Force came under fire. There are 17 Hispanics: Private Rey Cuevo was loved by his fellow soldiers and his leaders and was killed by an IED; we named an operating base after him. SPC Alex Gonzalez was on a route-clearing team early in the morning -- paving the way for convoys that would pass later in the day -- when his team was hit by snipers, rocket-propelled grenades (RPGs) and small arms fire. Pfc. Marius Ferrero, Pfc. Luis Moreno, Sgt. First Class Luis Gutierrez-Rosales, Sgt. Felix Gonzalez-Iraheta are others that share space in the box. Five women find peace in this box. Staff Sgt. Carletta Davis, a medic who volunteered to go on a patrol when one of her soldiers wasn't well, left behind a family in Alaska. Private First Class Rachel Bosveld, scheduled to receive her first purple heart in an awards ceremony for being previously wounded, would get two instead. Specialist Michelle Witmer was a tough Military Policewoman who was shot in a small arms attack at a police station. We had allies in our ranks, too. An Estonian sergeant --Andres Nuiamae --was an excellent sniper who lost his life to an IED. US Navy Petty Officer Second Class Kevin Bewley, an explosive ordnance demolition specialist who took a lot of ribbing for being one of the few sailors in an Army task force, was killed by an IED. There are many non-commissioned officers -- young corporals and grizzled sergeants -- memorialized in the box. Sgt. Nick Tomko was killed in an ambush. Sgt. Cody Legg was involved in a tough firefight in which insurgents were relentless in throwing grenades and firing small arms. Corporal Chris Nelson's patrol was hit by a suicide attack. All three of these leaders were under the age of 25. An unusually large number of officers, too. Second Lt. Lenny Cowherd was a West Point graduate who I had met right before he graduated; he was marrying the daughter of a West Point classmate of mine. Chief Warrant Officer 3 Donald Clark and Chief Warrant Officer 2 Christian Humphreys were flying an OH-58 scout helicopter in support of ground forces when their aircraft was shot down. Major Andrew Olmsted was on an "advise and assist" team with an Iraqi unit when he came under sniper fire. Lt. Kenneth Ballard -- a tanker by trade -- was on a dismounted patrol near the Kufa mosque when he was shot by members of the Mahdi militia. Captain Mike Medders was killed by a suicide vest as he tried to save a group of Iraqi citizens from the blast. Many faces on those cards. Young faces. Diverse faces. Americans and immigrants with too many dreams, hopes, lives and love taken way too early. Too many spouses, families, children, friends still missing them today, now identified with a gold star. There's a famous story about World War II Lt. Gen. Lucian Truscott Jr. , who surprised everyone, at the dedication of the Sicily-Rome American Cemetery in Italy, when he turned away from the crowd and began speaking to the gravestones of his dead soldiers. "Everyone tells leaders it's not their fault when their men get killed in war, but every leader in their heart knows that's not altogether true," Truscott said to the men lying in their graves. Then he asked for their forgiveness for any mistakes he might have made to contribute to their death. When I went to visit that same cemetery, I saw that the soldiers in those graves were laid under crosses, Stars of David, and a few Muslim crescents. But there were also African-American soldiers in those graves, too, members of the 92d Division and the 370th Regimental Combat Team. Even though many in the US did not support the integration of "colored" soldiers into the Army. They fought alongside Japanese-American troopers of the 442d Regimental Combat Team, who fought so tenaciously they were called the "Purple Heart Battalion." That relatively small Japanese-American unit suffered over 9,000 casualties, with over 600 killed in action. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook War is serious business, battle is not glorious. Truscott rebelled at being "thanked" for his service and most veterans today will do the same. Memorial Day isn't a day for thanking, it's a day for reflecting. Reflecting on the devotion and the diversity of those who serve and a re-dedication by the living to our nation's values: respect, the dignity of our fellow citizens, and selfless service to liberty. And reflecting on how all of us should want to "Make it Matter."
(CNN) Here's a look at the life of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Personal: Birth date: October 7, 1952 Birth name: Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin Father: Vladimir Putin, a factory foreman Mother: Maria Putin Marriage: Lyudmila (Shkrebneva) Putin (July 28, 1983-2014, divorced) Children: Yekaterina and Maria Education: Leningrad State University, law, 1975 Religion: Orthodox Christian Other Facts: Enjoys working out and has a black belt in judo. Grew up in a communal apartment shared by three families. Served in the KGB as an intelligence officer before becoming involved in politics. Timeline: 1975 - Joins the Committee for State Security (KGB). Is on the staff of the First Chief Directorate for Foreign Intelligence for the KGB, and is assigned to shadow foreign visitors. 1984 - Is selected to attend the Red Banner Institute of Intelligence, where he learns German and English. 1985 - Is assigned to counterintelligence duties in Dresden, [East] Germany. Reportedly monitors loyalty of Soviet diplomats. 1990 - Becomes assistant rector (dean) for international affairs at Leningrad State University. Reportedly monitors loyalty of students and shadows foreigners. 1991 - Turns towards politics as he becomes an adviser to one of his law school mentors, Anatoly Sobchak, who is running for mayor of Leningrad. After Sobchak wins the election, Putin is tapped to work in city hall as chairman of the committee for international relations. He resigns from the KGB. 1997 - Putin is named deputy chief administrator of the Kremlin under President Boris Yeltsin. 1998 - Chief of the Federal Security Service (FSB). 1999 - Secretary of the Russian Security Council. August 9, 1999 - Yeltsin appoints Putin as Prime Minister of Russia. December 31, 1999 - Yeltsin steps down amid scandal and Putin becomes acting president. He grants Yeltsin immunity from prosecution. March 26, 2000 - Is elected president of Russia. May 7, 2000 - Putin is sworn in. May 24, 2002 - Putin and US President George W. Bush sign the Moscow Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions, which requires each country to reduce its stockpiles of strategic nuclear warheads over the course of ten years. Putin andUS President George W. Bush sign the Moscow Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions, which requires each country to reduce its stockpiles of strategic nuclear warheads over the course of ten years. March 15, 2004 - Is re-elected after campaigning as an independent. May 7, 2004 - Putin is sworn in for his second term. April 27, 2005 - Becomes the first Russian leader to visit Becomes the first Russian leader to visit Israel October 4-5, 2005 - Visits Visits British Prime Minister Tony Blair and announces increased cooperation between Russia and Britain to fight terrorism. September 5, 2006 - Meets Meets South African President Thabo Mbeki during the first visit to sub-Sarahan Africa by a Russian leader. December 19, 2007 - Named Time magazine's Person of the Year. March 2, 2008 - Dmitry Medvedev is elected president of Russia. Dmitry Medvedev is elected president of Russia. August 2008 - Russia engages in a military conflict with neighboring Georgia. Russia engages in a military conflict with neighboring Georgia. September 24, 2011 - Medvedev calls on the ruling United Russia party to endorse Putin for president in 2012. Putin in turn suggests that Medvedev should take over the role of prime minister if the party wins parliamentary elections in December. March 4, 2012 - Putin wins a third term as president, with just under 65% of the vote. Critics question the results amid complaints of voter fraud. Putin wins a third term as president, with just under 65% of the vote. Critics question the results amid complaints of voter fraud. May 7, 2012 - Putin is sworn in under tight security. Hundreds of protestors are detained by police. December 14, 2012 - US President Barack Obama signs the Magnitsky Act, a law that imposes travel and financial restrictions on individuals in Russia suspected of human rights violations. The law is named for Sergey Magnitsky, a lawyer who died under mysterious circumstances in 2009 after finding evidence that Russian officials committed tax fraud. US President Barack Obama signs the Magnitsky Act, a law that imposes travel and financial restrictions on individuals in Russia suspected of human rights violations. The law is named for Sergey Magnitsky, a lawyer who died under mysterious circumstances in 2009 after finding evidence that Russian officials committed tax fraud. December 28, 2012 - In response to the Magnitsky act, In response to the Magnitsky act, Putin signs into law a bill that effectively bans US citizens from adopting Russian children. The law also bans US-funded civic groups from operating in Russia. June 6, 2013 - During an interview broadcast on state-run television, Putin and his wife, Lyudmila, announce that their marriage is over. During an interview broadcast on state-run television, Putin and his wife, Lyudmila, announce that their marriage is over. March 2014 - Putin sends troops into Crimea after Putin sends troops into Crimea after Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych flees amid violent protests. September 28, 2015 - Putin attends the United Nations General Assembly in New York and later meets with Obama. The Putin attends the United Nations General Assembly in New York and later meets with Obama. The two leaders discuss Ukraine and Syria , according to senior US officials. It is their first in-person meeting since Russia's incursion into Ukraine. January 21, 2016 - A UK inquiry is released, laying out evidence that suggests Putin approved the operation to kill former FSB spy Alexander Litvinenko in 2006. July 25, 2016 - The FBI announces it has launched an investigation into the hacking of the Democratic National Committee's computer system. Although the statement doesn't indicate that the agency has a particular suspect or suspects in mind, US officials tell CNN they think the The FBI announces it has launched an investigation into the hacking of the Democratic National Committee's computer system. Although the statement doesn't indicate that the agency has a particular suspect or suspects in mind, US officials tell CNN they think the cyberattack is linked to Russia. September 1, 2016 - During a Bloomberg News interview, Putin denies that the Russian government had any involvement in the hacking of Democratic National Committee emails. During a Bloomberg News interview, Putin denies that the Russian government had any involvement in the hacking of Democratic National Committee emails. January 6, 2017 - The US Office of the Director of National Intelligence releases a declassified The US Office of the Director of National Intelligence releases a declassified report concluding that Putin ordered an "influence campaign" aimed at hurting Hillary Clinton and helping Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election July 7, 2017 - Meets Trump for the first time on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Hamburg, Germany. During a two-hour meeting, the men reportedly discuss allegations of Russian meddling in the US election and the war in Syria, among other things. Meets Trump for the first time on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Hamburg, Germany. During a two-hour meeting, the men reportedly discuss allegations of Russian meddling in the US election and the war in Syria, among other things. Hours later, they talk again informally during a dinner with other heads of state. December 6, 2017 - Announces he will run for re-election in 2018. March 1, 2018 - During his annual address to Parliament, Putin boasts about the country's nuclear capabilities, declaring that Russian missiles can elude air defense systems. In a video simulation, nuclear warheads are shown flying through space and raining down on a peninsula that resembles the state of Florida. During his annual address to Parliament, Putin boasts about the country's nuclear capabilities, declaring that Russian missiles can elude air defense systems. In a video simulation, nuclear warheads are shown flying through space and raining down on a peninsula that resembles the state of Florida. March 18, 2018 - Putin reportedly wins the election, with 76.7% of the vote, according to Russia's Central Election Commission. His most prominent challenger, opposition leader Alexei Navalny Putin reportedly wins the election, with 76.7% of the vote, according to Russia's Central Election Commission. His most prominent challenger, opposition leader Alexei Navalny was barred from running. International election monitors said that the votes were tallied in an orderly manner but they criticized the state-run media coverage of the presidential race, which heavily promoted Putin.
Story highlights A woman said she developed pleural mesothelioma after using Johnson & Johnson Baby Powder There are similar asbestos-related cases making their way through courts (CNN) A California jury hit Johnson & Johnson and other companies with a $25.75 million verdict, saying the company was negligent and did not warn consumers about possible health risks from its Baby Powder. The couple who brought the suit, Joanne and Gary Anderson, claim that she developed a kind of cancer after using the company's Baby Powder. The jury returned a $21.75 million compensatory damage amount on Tuesday and, after deliberating on punitive damages, came back with an additional $4 million. In Los Angeles Superior Court, the Oregon woman said she was an avid bowler and used the powder in her shoes and on her hands for years. She also used it when her children were younger to help with diaper rash. Experts in court estimated that she used the powder more than 10,000 times. Doctors diagnosed Anderson with pleural mesothelioma, a cancer that develops in the lining of the lungs that is often linked to exposure to asbestos. The two minerals are often mined near each other, although since the 1970s, talc used in all consumer products has been required to be asbestos-free. Johnson & Johnson says its talc does not contain asbestos. The jury said that J&J was liable for two-thirds of the compensatory amount and 100% of the punitive amount. Other companies named in the lawsuit -- including Honeywell/Bendix, Borg Warner and Fel-Pro -- are on the hook for the rest. Anderson said she was also exposed to asbestos when she watched her husband work on his car.
Brazilian Rodrigo Koxa has broken a world record by riding the biggest wave ever surfed, according to the World Surf League. Koxa mastered the monster 80-footer off the coast of Nazaré, Portugal, in November. His record-breaking feat only became official Saturday, when it was recognized with the Quiksilver XXL Biggest Wave Award at a World Surf League ceremony in Los Angeles. “The award goes to the surfer who, by any means available, catches the biggest wave of the year,” the league said in a statement. “Not only did Koxa win this year’s honor, but he now holds the Guinness World Record for the biggest wave surfed.”
Canada's Minister of Science Kirsty Duncan made headlines recently when she expressed frustration over the lack of gender parity in STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) fields. In 1987, women occupied only 20 per cent of STEM positions – more than 30 years later that number has only inched up to 22 per cent. What has gone so abysmally wrong? A few years ago, I saw a child walking with a T-shirt that said, "smart like daddy and pretty like mommy." To me, it is the ubiquitous sentiment expressed in that T-shirt that is partly the reason why women have lagged behind in STEM. Of course, I am not a sociologist — I am a biotissue engineer. My area of focus is on the development of human tissue from stem cells that can enhance drug testing and help discover better and more effective drugs and service models of disease. While I cannot imagine doing anything else, this incredibly rewarding field of practice has proven a challenge for women scientists, and the lack of government action on this issue has exacerbated the problem. Women face greater barriers when pursuing, entering and advancing in STEM fields. Prescriptive gender norms that prevent women from even considering the viability of STEM careers persist today. Girls are still implicitly learning that math and sciences are "too hard" or "not fun" for them. Even though it is 2018, women still do most of the unpaid care work in our society — including the care of home and children. STEM careers can be extremely demanding — professional demands combined with caregiving responsibilities can be incredibly difficult to manage and often serve as barriers for women entering, and advancing, in STEM fields. Girls are still implicitly learning that math and sciences are "too hard" or "not fun" for them. Women in positions of authority are evaluated more harshly and at times unfairly — more so than their male counterparts. I am often thinking about how to say certain things in a manner where I do not come across as too forceful, or in a manner where I am not perceived in a certain light, and these emotional considerations can be taxing after a while. So STEM fields can be difficult for anyone but especially for women. Having said that, I believe anyone can become anything they wish to be on this planet given the right circumstances. There are too many women who did not enter STEM fields because they believed, or were led to believe, STEM fields were not appropriate for them. It is so sad to think there were generations of women who did not reach their full potential because they were told women could not, or should not, be scientists. I fundamentally disagree with this! Fields should not be gendered or racialized. Babies are born with unlimited potential; it is up to us as a society to support them into becoming adults that feel empowered to pursue any path. Ultimately, our society will be more productive and better if everyone is empowered to contribute to their maximum potential. To this end, we need to cultivate greater diversity and interest in STEM fields, especially among young girls. There is a strong moral and economic imperative to do so. This requires creating more supportive environments for women researchers in STEM and giving them opportunities to balance competing professional and family demands. This also requires encouraging young girls to develop an interest in STEM fields by creating spaces where girls can explore math and science without judgement. Safe spaces are ones where girls can have their interests positively reinforced and where instructors validate the ideas of girls. I believe this is how we foster a new generation of women scientists in Canada. I am optimistic that with greater government awareness about this issue, and greater funding to take action, gaps in science will narrow. The recent announcement to increase 25% of STEM graduates in Ontario is a step in the right direction, but we need specific policies to encourage young women to pursue STEM fields and create research environments that retain and promote women scientists. Science is situated within a larger socio-political context and what we choose to invest in is a reflection of our values – and we should value women researchers and the contributions of women scientists. Ultimately, STEM fields can be incredibly rewarding for any researcher, trainee, or student. We are applying sophisticated tools to solve some incredible problems and using our imaginations along the way. It is a privilege to be doing this work, and I firmly believe any person – woman, man, trans, black, white, queer or whatever you may identify as – would benefit from being in this field. Greater diversity will help enrich our approach to solving some of the world's most pressing problems and teach girls that, they too, can be smart like mommy. Dr. Milica Radisic is an award-winning engineer and researcher. She is the Canada Research Chair in Functional Cardiovascular Tissue Engineering at the University of Toronto's Institute of Biomaterials & Biomedical Engineering (IBBME).On May 24, Dr. Radisic received the 2018 YWCA Toronto Women of Distinction Award. For more information about this fundraiser, please visit www.womenofdistinction.ca. Also on HuffPost:
Warning: this post contains plot spoilers about the movie "Tully." Maternal mental health advocates are fuming over Hollywood's latest depiction of postpartum depression in the movie "Tully," starring Charlize Theron, set to hit theatres May 4th. "It makes my blood boil," Lisa Tremayne, co-founder of the Bloom Foundation and director of the Center for Perinatal Mood and Anxiety Disorders at one of the largest birthing hospitals in New Jersey, told HuffPost Canada. "This is such a missed opportunity to help stop the stigma. Sadly, so many women are already planning a moms' night out to see this movie. We must issue a warning." There's no mention of postpartum depression at all in the movie trailer, which has many moms excited about a major motion picture they are being led to believe finally depicts the true trials of motherhood, sleepless nights and all. Not so, according to Motherly, who published a scathing review after an advance screening, and called on the film industry to responsibly address maternal mental illness in light of what they perceive to be its misportrayal in "Tully." "The reason that people are so excited about 'Tully' is because they feel like it is the first time that true motherhood is being portrayed on the big screen — but this is not true motherhood," writes Motherly digital education editor, midwife, and pediatric nurse, Diana Spalding. "Motherhood is hard, yes, but it is not this. This is mental illness. Brushing aside her mental illness again refuses to give it the attention it deserves." The 'brush off' isn't the advocate's only concern. Warning! Spoilers Ahead ... Charlize Theron attends the premiere for "Tully" in Los Angeles on April 18, 2018. Turns out, Theron's character, Marlo, isn't just an exhausted and overwhelmed new mom still grappling with baby weight and an impossible mess of a house amid caring for two children in addition to her newborn. But she's also a delusional, dangerous and manic mom. And she's not suffering from postpartum depression — which is what a hospital doctor diagnoses her with (and springs on unsuspecting movie-goers) after Marlo and her night nanny (who turns out to be imaginary) get into a car accident after a night of drinking — but from postpartum psychosis, advocates argue. And this is the crux of the issue they have with the movie. "My issue with the movie is not that it is about a woman with postpartum mental illness — indeed we need many, many more movies about postpartum mental illness," writes Spalding. "My issue is that in not addressing the fact that Marlo has postpartum psychosis, the rampant problem of unaddressed maternal mental health concerns is perpetuated." Postpartum psychosis is rare and dangerous Postpartum depression is characterized by feelings of anger, irritability, guilt, shame, hopelessness, and sadness, but delusions, strange beliefs and hallucinations are symptoms more in line with a diagnosis of postpartum psychosis, as are cases of infanticide, according to Postpartum Support International (PSI). And while postpartum depression affects 15-20 per cent of women, postpartum psychosis is a much rarer perinatal mental illness affecting just one to two women out of every 1,000 deliveries. Most worryingly is that four per cent of those women go on to harm their infants, according to a recent study. "PSI is hoping to review the film as soon as possible so we have an informed and accurate understanding and dialogue," PSI Executive Director, Wendy Newhouse Davis, told HuffPost Canada. "We don't want to miss the opportunity to raise awareness and share accurate information." HuffPost Canada's attempts to interview the director of "Tully" were not successful. In an email, Janice Luke of NBC Universal, the company responsible for releasing "Tully" along with Focus Features responded: "Unfortunately we're going to pass on this." Movie-goers should be warned Mackenzie Davis, who plays the night nanny, poses at the premiere for "Tully" in Los Angeles on April 18, 2018. Claire Zlobin said she isn't waiting to see the movie. As the founder of Life With A Baby a Canadian non-profit helping moms deal with the isolation of postpartum depression, Zlobin feels it's important to warn moms ahead of the movie's release. So she started a social media campaign using the hashtag #thisisNOTpospartumdepression. "If it's true, it's very disappointing the illness would be so grossly misdiagnosed in a major motion picture when we know that only 15 per cent of women who experience a postpartum mood disorder get treatment because of the stigma and shame associated with it," Zlobin told HuffPost Canada. "I think mothers should be made aware going into the movie that it might be triggering." Michelle Lavergne, a maternal mental health social worker who runs the Hold on Pain Ends (HOPE) support group for moms with moderate to severe postpartum depression, is taking it one step further. "A warning should be issued," Lavergne told HuffPost Canada, "and I also think moms should be encouraged to consider boycotting the film. How else can we begin to change the way mental health is portrayed?" Also on HuffPost:
That Mumbai Police's Twitter handle has a witty social-media manager taking care of the account is no secret. Always attuned to the latest pop-culture phenomenon, the account often posts hilarious memes that feature messages about safety and security in a clever way. Earlier on Wednesday, Mumbai Police jumped on the now-popular Race 3 meme wagon, which trolls actress Daisy Shah's dialogue, "Our business is our business, none of your business," from the upcoming thriller. Here's what the Mumbai Police tweeted: Mind your own data to make sure that no one else takes advantage of it to beat you in the #RaceOfSafety pic.twitter.com/WJ4ADZEl1a — Mumbai Police (@MumbaiPolice) May 23, 2018 The tweet has already been RT'd over 2000 times, with several users praising Mumbai Police's social media game. Interestingly, Race 3 features Salman Khan in the lead role, who's not had the best relationship with the cops. A few days ago, when the meme, "Ghar se nikalte hi, kuch door chalte hi" become an online rage, Mumbai Police once again went hyper-viral with a genius post. Ghar se Kuch dur nikalte chalte hi... hi... pic.twitter.com/1nSWbB0H92 — Mumbai Police (@MumbaiPolice) May 16, 2018 Even before, when Twitter was losing it on the "If you don't love me at my worst, you don't deserve me at my best," memes this is the gem that the cops had posted. Whoever handles the account, clearly deserves a raise.
My 54-year-old patient was alone in the intensive care unit, with no family or friends in his life. He slumped in his bed, gasping, staring up at me. Admitted with lung fibrosis and pneumonia, he had scars and infection aggressively replacing his airways, despite our best treatments. As a newly minted doctor years ago, my mind was usually occupied with beeps and buzzers providing me technical information to help calculate choices about patients' care. Having developed gray hair over many years at the bedside, my first priority is now more straightforward: to hear the voices of the vulnerable people looking up at me from their bed. That is what I try to do as a physician, including, of course, what they tell me in the silences. I pulled a chair next to his bed so we could talk at eye level. His face was blank. "I want euthanasia. I'm going to die soon, so what's the point of living longer? I'm just wasted space." I felt nauseated. The illegality of euthanasia was not what ran through my mind. Instead I thought about how Paul had lost his sense of personhood. I thought about how I had chosen to become a doctor in the first place. Caregiving is a partnership Share your story of how being a caregiver has changed you with #ToBeMe or text/WhatsApp us on +1-347-322-0415 I chose medicine as my calling after a childhood spent in the Deep South: Shreveport, Louisiana. My mother taught English there after my father, an engineer, had left her for another woman. I remember it was so hot that my siblings and I would fry eggs on the sidewalk. No joke. On most days, we'd walk to a nearby bayou and catch baby alligators for fun and fill up coolers with crawfish for dinner. That last part is important because we had no money at all. Dad wouldn't pay anything to Mom, who didn't make much as a teacher. So I started working at the farm of a man who wanted to marry my mother. I worked 14-hour days from about five in the morning doing square bales of hay until seven at night picking vegetables and running the country store. While I cherish those years and the formation that grueling work provided, I was determined to do something different with my life. Mom told me that Dad had loved math and science, and she taught literature. So I figured it must come naturally for me to split the difference and do something with people, science and the arts. To me, that meant medicine. Dr. Wes Ely assessing a patient in the Medical Intensive Care Unit at Vanderbilt. I remember our first big assignment in sixth grade was to write a research paper on what we would be when we grew up. I rode my beat-up bicycle to the local library and began reading about how to become a physician: What was the process and what would it all mean? I walked out of the library that day having spent most of my time reading a long medical essay about truth. The author insisted that to be a physician, one has constantly to seek truth about the patient's diagnosis, the best treatment, and the best way to serve each and every person. What I learned from the essay was that truth doesn't change depending on our ability to stomach it. As I progressed through Jesuit high school and Tulane, this became a common theme in my pursuit of a life as a doctor: "Wrong is wrong even if everybody is wrong. Right is right even if nobody is right." Numerous people are credited with some version of this quote, from actors to philosophers to theologians. That sense of truth drove my study and training and my realization that each person's life has value beyond measure. I knew long before I met Paul that I couldn't kill another person just because he or she wanted me to, but I still had to find a way to respond to Paul's request to die. 'Just don't abandon me' My response came in parts over my days with him. First, I explained that, as his physician, I wanted to be with him through the dying process. I told him that I considered us to be in a mutual covenant. We both had a degree of autonomy that had to be respected, but I would never intentionally harm him. "Paul, our covenant includes my limiting your suffering," I said. "You are the best judge of when you need more meds for pain, anxiety and breathing. All of us will work day and night to end your distress, but we won't deliberately end your life." With our eyes locked, Paul gave his instruction: "Just don't abandon me." And we sat there, as partners. As a physician, there is no better place to be. Perhaps especially amid the uncertainty, we must learn to partner with each person in the bonds of this two-way relationship. He in need of help and me in need of helping. Paul was receiving excellent palliative care for his physical symptoms, but it wasn't enough. It never is. Emotional isolation and despair can cast a shadow darker than disease. Physicians fail our patients on a human level. We forget that our patients are more than the sum of their medical conditions, so I asked Paul about other types of therapy — art, music, spirituality, pets, sunshine — that might help him. 'He who has a "why" to live can bear almost any "how"' "I want my music. Can you get me the soundtrack for 'Lord of the Rings'?" Within minutes we had the songs playing in his room, and his demeanor changed from desolate to alert and engaged. "I love music. It's always been a motivator, but now ... I don't know." He shifted in his bed. "My goals are gone." Nietzsche's words came to my mind, "He who has a 'why' to live can bear almost any 'how.'" Viktor Frankl , as a physician-survivor of Auschwitz, used Nietzsche's quote four times in his crucial analysis, "Man's Search for Meaning." I think this book should be required reading for medical students. As with many patients, Paul's story needed unpacking. "Paul, what did you do in life?" He smiled and shrugged. "I'm a rare beast: a plumber who acts. I do Shakespeare festivals. You know, 'The quality of mercy is not strained.' I've been mulling over that line. Years ago I didn't understand it. I do now. Mercy should not be forced. It's better as a natural infusion, one person to another." I described for Paul the many years I spent alongside my single-mom-turned-Shakespeare-director, helping her cue actors. As we talked, I watched his erratic oxygen levels fall and then partially recover, obliging us to take breaks. Sweat would build up on his forehead, and, more than once, I worried that our conversation was too much of a strain. But we were unpacking, and it was essential. The quality of mercy That night I asked Christine, a nurse who loves theater, to sit and talk with Paul. Soon their lives were interwoven, too. "I think I helped Christine," Paul said the next day. "My own illness made me forget that one of my 'things' is seeing when someone is hurting. And Christine is. She came to help me, but it turns out some really personal things in our background are weirdly similar. I told her my way through the worst of it." He paused, his thoughts far away. It seemed like a good time to return to his previous request. "Paul, you've asked for euthanasia, and you brought up Portia's line from 'Merchant of Venice' about mercy. Can we talk about these things?" He nodded, and closed his eyes. "We all want to be here with you in your suffering. I want your opinion: I don't think injecting you with a lethal drug would be truly merciful, but it would, in every sense of the word, be 'strained.' It would be a forced and unnatural 'false' mercy. Whenever possible, mercy must also be lifting and healing. I don't want to abandon those key elements in serving you." His eyes opened wide. "Doc, talking with you and Christine about life's best and worst times has helped." He took a deep breath, and I heard the whoosh of high-flow oxygen into his nostrils. "Things I confided to Christine are helping her sort through her own struggles. She said she's coming back tonight, and that means the world to me." Then, unwittingly, Paul paraphrased Nietzsche: "When we met, I was afraid of being a burden and not mattering. Now I feel different. I'm not a believer like others, but I guess I remembered the 'why' to live." Short of a war zone, there are few settings as raw as an ICU. Yet treasured moments of human transformation come when people like Paul rediscover their "why," even if just for an hour or a day. 'I'm glad I didn't miss this time' I see many paths toward survival in the ICU, and for non-survivors, myriad paths toward death: sudden, prolonged, stuttering, reluctant, stoical -- and these paths are dynamic, not static. It is a rare patient who asks me for euthanasia, but it is nearly universal that dying patients seek help with suffering. Sitting on their beds brings me right up against their fears, the greatest of which is usually not intolerable pain. Lack of control is what bothers people the most, and it drives most requests for euthanasia, which is predominantly a first-world phenomenon. As we have gained more and more ability to dictate so many aspects of our lives, looking ahead in uncertainty has become something people are not willing to tolerate. As a physician, I find this is a very important "teachable moment" for most patients: helping them (and me) to live in the moment. Whitewashed along a wall in the home for destitute and dying in Kolkata, these words of Saint Mother Teresa became emblazoned in my mind, and I recalled them for Paul: "Yesterday is gone. Tomorrow has not yet come. We have only today. Let us begin." He nodded in agreement. Paul reminded me that the best remedy for angst is human relationship and community. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook The problem with assisted suicide and euthanasia for Paul — and for others — is that it presented him with an illusion of 'cure,' when in reality it would have left him devoid of the healing he received. And alongside the patient, of course, sits the physician. The problem for me with intentionally administering lethal medications to end the life of another person is that it would rob me as a healer. I would be qualitatively changed. If I were ever to assume that I had authority over life to take it deliberately, it would, for me, create an irrevocable cavern of emptiness. The infinite worth of every person outprices autonomy: What you and I want is less important than who we are. Obviously, the approach I took with Paul won't be an answer for everyone, yet it is too often left untried. Some will say Paul's story is merely an uplifting anecdote. Nevertheless, I hope to embrace the lessons I learned at his bedside for most of my patients, and I hope my colleagues do the same. Caregiving is a partnership Share your story of how being a caregiver has changed you with #ToBeMe or text/WhatsApp us on +1-347-322-0415 We are sent to heal even when cure is not possible. What we should be trying to heal is often not physical disease or clinical depression, but a person's sense of insignificance and hopelessness, which we cannot heal by eliminating the person. Paul died a week later. By then he realized his life was of value even with a terminal disease. In fact, the last thing he said to me, between gasps, was: "I'm glad I didn't miss this time. I never saw it coming, Doc. ... In losing my breath, I gained it." Note: The patient's name and age have been changed for privacy. These conversations reproduce Paul's words as accurately as possible from the author's memory.
OK, so is there actually anything Tessa Virtue can't do? She's a gold medal ice dancing champion (and the most decorated figure skater in Olympics history, alongside her skating partner Scott Moir), which, honestly, is enough. We could stop here and we'd all be suitably impressed. Gold medallists Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir celebrate at the Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympics in Gangneung, South Korea, Feb. 20, 2018 But we won't, because since the Olympics Virtue has also been named one of ESPNW's 25 Most Famous Women Athletes In The World (and is the only Canadian on the list), is the new face of skincare line Nivea Canada, has been touring with Stars on Ice, appeared on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show," was part of a CTV takeover, and is basically loved and adored by literally everyone on this earth who isn't a monster. Her steamy on-ice performances with Moir have also set the internet ablaze with speculation over her love life, she's proven she has serious social media game with her sassy tweets, and her original Olympics routine was not only deemed "too sexy" for the judges, but her toned-down gold medal-winning version set a ratings record when 4.3 million people tuned in. AND she has her own jewelry line with Hillberg & Berk, a company that aims to empower women, plus she's also launched an eyewear collection with Montreal-based company BonLook. Screw maple syrup (Yeah. We said it). Tessa Virtue might actually be our most cherished Canadian product. Virtue's most recent accomplishment, though, was an "absolute dream come true" for the star. On Tuesday, she posted behind-the-scenes photos from a photo shoot with Vogue Japan, an experience she called "very, very special." Obviously, she looks stunning. Come on. HOW IS SHE EVEN REAL? A little behind-the-scenes image from today's @voguejp shoot. I hope I don't wake up to find out it was all just a dream!!! Thanks to the incredible team for making it so very, very special 💙 #vogue pic.twitter.com/Br8jcdOxPL — Tessa Virtue (@tessavirtue) May 29, 2018 Virtue seemed thrilled by the experience, asking that "someone pinch me" and adding that she hope she doesn't wake up to find it was all a dream. Someone pinch me. I'm shooting with @voguemagazine in Japan !!! An absolute dream come true. pic.twitter.com/zsP1ULAEnt — Tessa Virtue (@tessavirtue) May 29, 2018 Her Instagram stories from that day show her laughing with the crew, ogling over the clothes, smashing her shoot, and just generally looking like someone we want to be BFFs with. And it looks like she even pulled some inspiration from her Olympics performance by channeling "Roxanne" during the shoot, according to a post from Vogue Japan's editor Mayumi Nakamura. "Tess, you are AMAZING," Nakamura wrote. Tell us something we don't know. Also on HuffPost:
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle — now the Duke and Duchess of Sussex — are officially husband and wife! The royal and former actress wed Saturday at St. George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle in front of 600 guests, including celebrities like Elton John, Serena Williams and Oprah. Everything ― from the weather to the vows to Markle’s gorgeous Givenchy gown ― was perfect. Millions (if not billions) of people from around the world watched the couple exchange rings, kiss outside of the chapel and then ride around Windsor Town in a carriage. To make sure you don’t miss a moment of their special day, check out all of the photos below:
Story highlights Report: Kids up to age 8 spend spend an average of 2 hours and 19 minutes every day on screen media For kids 8 to 12, it's 4 hours and 36 minutes every day The Parent Curve offers a look at the norms and numbers around tough decisions parents face. Where are you on the curve? (CNN) It's not unusual for children to sulk or throw a tantrum when parents demand they switch off the television or put down the phone, but for parents, what's on that screen -- or how long a child has been staring at it -- is the bigger worry. The Parent Curve offers a look at the norms and numbers around tough decisions parents face. Where are you on the curve? The American Academy of Pediatrics warns that overuse of digital media and screens can put children and teens at risk of obesity, sleep problems, cyberbullying and negative performance at school. There are also safety concerns: The academy encourages parents to talk to their children about online safety and safeguarding privacy, ask them to refrain from risky online behavior like sexting and be wary of online solicitations. Just how much time are children spending buried in screens? A report released this year by Common Sense Media said children up to age 8 spend an average of 2 hours and 19 minutes every day on screen media. The lion's share of that time is occupied by TV and video viewing alone; it takes up 72% of all screen time. That's an increase from 2011, when the average daily screen media time for the same age group was 1 hour 55 minutes. Time spent on most devices, including TV, computers, video games and DVDs, has dropped since 2011, but time spent on mobile phones has increased significantly. (The recent results were obtained through a survey of 1,454 parents of children age 8 or under conducted in January and February.) Read More
Move over, "The Bachelor." The royal wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle -- now the duke and duchess of Sussex -- was a huge ratings draw. In the US, about 29 million people tuned in on Saturday morning, according to Nielsen's total of the 15 channels that showed the wedding. Some viewers awoke at 4 or 5 a.m. ET to watch the arrivals. But the ceremony officially started at 7 a.m., so that's what the 29 million figure measures. Between 6 and 9 a.m. ET, including the arrivals and the procession afterward, NBC averaged 6.4 million viewers, ABC averaged 6.3 million, and CBS had 4.8 million. On cable, Fox News had 1.9 million, CNN had 1.8 million and MSNBC had 1 million viewers. Related: Official royal wedding photographs revealed In the UK, the ratings were higher for Prince William and Kate Middleton's wedding in 2011. Those nuptials averaged 24 million viewers there, while Saturday's festivities averaged 18 million viewers. Still, it was "by far the biggest television event of the year" in the UK, The Guardian reported. The UK has a total population of about 66 million. The US has five times the population. Markle is an American woman who married a prince, so it makes sense that this wedding stirred more interest in the US. Related: A trailblazing wedding William and Kate's wedding in 2011 started a little earlier in the morning, on a weekday, and averaged 22.8 million viewers in the U.S. Nielsen said the official average for Harry and Meghan was 29.2 million, but that only counts people watching on TV at home. An unknown number streamed the wedding on mobile devices. There was strong interest later in the day, as well. Cable news ratings remained high all day long. CNN rebroadcast the wedding in prime time and averaged 1.6 million viewers, out-rating Fox and MSNBC.
(CNN) A man managed to escape the first eruptive fury of Vesuvius in A.D. 79, only to be crushed beneath a block of stone hurled by an explosive volcanic cloud, new excavations at the site suggest. Archeologists working at the ancient Roman city of Pompeii , Italy, found the man's remains almost 2,000 years after he died. Stunning pictures from the scene show a skeleton pinned beneath the stone. The impact crushed the top of the man's body. His head might still be buried beneath the block of stone. Photos: Pompeii houses restored Photos: Pompeii houses restored Frescoes are seen in the Criptoporticus Domus, one of six restored domus at U.N. World Heritage Site Pompeii, on Thursday, December 24, during the official opening to the public. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored A hallway in the Criptoporticus Domus. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored People explore the Fullonica Stephanus Domus. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored A detail of graffiti inside the Fullonica di Stephan's in Pompeii. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored Journalists take photos in the Casa di Paquius Proculus. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored People visit the Pacuius Proculus Domus. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored A floor covered with mosaics is seen inside the Pacuius Proculus Domus. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Pompeii houses restored A girl visits the Criptoporticus Domus. Hide Caption 8 of 8 Lesions on the skeleton's tibia are signs of a bone infection that probably hampered the man's escape attempt, archeologists said. Nonetheless, the man, who was at least 30 years old, survived the first phase of the eruption and fled along an alley, probably limping because of his infection. Read More
Note: Some readers requested that we use only their first names to protect their privacy. Submissions have been edited for style and clarity. With that in mind, we asked our readers to share their favorite old-school pictures of their moms. They did not disappoint. When your mom is this effortlessly cool, it’s an honor and a privilege to be called a chip off the ol’ block. One of the best parts of getting older is realizing that your mom is a highly impressive, badass woman who was living a rich, interesting life long before you came along. (But hey, bonus points for raising you.) 1 Courtesy of Odessa Fields "My mom, Patricia Fields Neubert, was an instructor pilot for the Army at Fort Rucker in Alabama in the 1980s. She had a rule: No cameras in the cockpit. A student of hers took that picture during his flight time. She failed him for the day, but she kept that picture. I love this picture because she still gives me this look! Nobody can say she isn't a badass." -- Odessa Fields 2 Courtesy of Michelle Low Michelle Low "My mom, Fung, giving you Hana -realness back in ’83." -- 3 Courtesy of Lisa Vidal "This is my mother Lorraine's high school graduation photo from 1972. I love her hairstyle. She told me it was one of the easiest styles to do. I grew up always seeing my mother as extremely stylish, and this photo only reinforces that she has always taken pride in her look. She is half-black and half-white and French Canadian." -- Lisa Vidal 4 Courtesy of the Wards of Liverpool and the Johanssons of Karlstad "My amazing mum, Ricia, escorting Queen Elizabeth! The photo was taken in Northampton in the late ’90s." -- Magnus 5 Courtesy of Fatima "That's my mother, Constansa, on the left. The picture was taken in 1969 in Mexico, when she was about to graduate from nursing school. I love seeing her pictures. They take me back in time whenever I go through them." -- Fatima 6 Courtesy of Thomas Liles "This photo of my mom, Dian Liles, was taken in Weiser, Idaho, at the annual Fiddle Festival in 1973 by a family friend. She would have been 22 years old in this photo, long before I was born. I really like this photo because my mother looks genuinely and completely in the moment. Her smile is great and it reminds me that she was (and is) a truly beautiful woman and not just a mom. And it's nice to be reminded that people can actually get together and enjoy something collectively without recording it for social media. It's just a little slice of life, you know?" -- Thomas Liles 7 Courtesy of Cat "The picture was taken while my mom, Lee, was in business school at the University of Virginia, probably 1987 or 1988. She was celebrating getting passing grades and staying in school! I love that it looks like a John Hughes movie and that we look really similar." -- Cat 8 Courtesy of Cindy Black "This was taken around 1976 at the Ontario Raceway in California. I love it because it includes my mom (to the right) and my soon-to-be husband's mom (to the left). That's me in the middle!" -- Cindy Black 9 GoProDad "This is my mother at her piano back home in Iraq in 1962. Her name is Shamiran Gabriel." -- Ramsin 10 Courtesy of Olivia "The picture is taken right before my mom, Charlotta, and her sister went to a school dance in Västergötland, Sweden, in 1992. She is 20 years old in the picture, the same age I am right now. What I love most about the pic is how happy and beautiful she looks. She's terminally ill with brain cancer at age 45 and only has a few weeks left. I have this photo saved in my phone so I can look at it in the future when I'm sad and remind myself how beautiful and happy she was." -- Olivia 11 Courtesy of Ony Dozie "My superwoman Joy, aka disco queen." -- Ony Dozie 12 Courtesy of Laura Coffman "Here's my family hiking the Porcupine Mountains in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan (before it was a hipster retreat). My mom's holding a kid on her back and any other random thing given to her -- a picture of grace and love as dad sips a cold one wearing his 'I'm with stupid' shirt. They've been married 50 years." -- Laura Coffman 13 Courtesy of Alex Whittingham "Me and my mom, Marina Smith." -- Alex Whittingham 14 Courtesy of Anukriti "My mother, Anita, in the early ’80s on the day she got her doctorate a year and a half year earlier than her peers. The pic was taken by her very proud parents. She still has the sari saved, and I hope to wear it on the day I finish my doctorate." -- Anukriti 15 Courtesy of Isabella Breen "Here's my mother, Brigid, and her sisters in the summer of 1970. She's on the far left. She was 18 at the time and she's wearing a dress handmade by her own mother in the 1940s. This beautiful woman has worked so hard to provide for me and my own sister, and I'm proud to have such a groovy mom." -- Isabella Breen 16 Courtesy of Josh Inkenbrandt "The photo of my mom, Patricia, was taken in the late ’70s or early ’80s. I was visiting my parents a couple of summers ago and we were going through old photos, which is where I found this one. I like it because it was before my poor mom got swept up in the fashion of the ’80s and ’90s! After this, it was all big hair and shoulder pads." -- Josh Inkenbrandt 17 Courtesy of Maddie Wilson "This picture of my mom, Maureen Wilson, was taken around 1974 or ’75 by one of her parents. My momma would have been around 20 or 21. I think she is so beautiful. Her hair was down to her mid-back, and I wish I could grow my hair that long! But I'm actually adopted from birth, so I don't have her genes." -- Maddie Wilson 18 Courtesy of Shawna Humphreys "Here's my mom, Jeannie Hester, and my older brother, Derrick Hester. It was taken in Owensboro, Kentucky, in 1976." -- Shawna Humphreys 19 Courtesy of Andrew Moise "This is a photo of my mom, Lisa Grimmonpré Palmer, in 1980 after she won the Miss McHenry County (Illinois, just outside of Chicago) beauty pageant at age 18. This photo hangs at the house of my recently passed grandmother. My mom is my favorite woman on this earth and a great friend." -- Andrew Moise 20 Courtesy of Rachael Williams "The picture was taken in 1976 before my mom Sheila's prom, and I love her radiant smile and, of course, her amazing afro! Growing up seeing her hair natural inspired me to do the same." -- Rachael Williams 21 Courtesy of Alen Forney "The picture was taken of my mom, Karma Forney, somewhere in Casas Grandes, Mexico, in the late ’60s. This is probably one of my favorite pictures of her. She fought breast cancer for over seven years. She had an amazing spirit and lived an incredible life." -- Alen Forney 22 Courtesy of Alexandra "My mother, Tiffany, and her Volvo in the summer of 1989." -- Alexandra 23 Courtesy of Elizabeth Mutz "My mom, Lana Wilson, at 24, with our dog Abby in Algonquin, Illinois. I love this picture because it’s one of very few pictures of my mom from when she was young, and it’s the happiest and only candid of her." -- Elizabeth Mutz 24 Courtesy of Nathan Hawrot "This is my mom Dianna Hawrot's senior high school picture from 1969. It's my favorite one of her. I think she looks like a hair model in an advertisement. She was a great person and this photo does her justice." -- Nathan Hawrot 25 Courtesy of Basma El "Here's my mom, Khadija M., holding my older sister and my dad in 1987." -- Basma El
New Delhi/Bengaluru -- An emissary was chosen with one eye on the present, and one eye on the past. A week before Karnataka went to polls, Sonia Gandhi asked veteran Communist Sitaram Yechury, to speak with HD Deve Gowda, the Janata Dal (Secular) patriarch, to reprise his role from June 1996, when Deve Gowda became Prime Minister to stall the rampaging Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "Yechury reminded him of his secular front days in the 1990s, when all parties united behind Deve Gowda to keep the BJP out of power," said a source close to both leaders. "Yechury, Sonia Gandhi, and Deve Gowda have always had a good equation." Deve Gowda had two conditions, three sources confirmed -- his son HD Kumaraswamy as chief minister; and he would speak to Sonia, not Rahul. Negotiations gathered pace once the exit polls suggested a fractured mandate, and culminated Wednesday, with the JD(S) and Congress alliance. "It was a classic Indian family saga," a source with intimate knowledge of negotiations said wryly, "Sons would not speak to each other, so parents stepped in." The inside story of yesterday's alliance, sourced from scores of interviews, offers clear lessons for 2019, as the Congress and regional parties seek to halt the BJP juggernaut: The Congress will lead from behind. Sonia, not Rahul Gandhi, will orchestrate negotiations; A national front will emerge from post-poll alliances, based on pre-poll adjustments. "The regional parties are clear," an opposition leader said. "If the Congress doesn't get a majority on its own, others will only support them if they get the top job in return." Senior Congress leader and strategist Ghulam Nabi Azad met with a Delhi representative of the JD(S), Danish Ali, known to be the "eyes and ears" of the leader, and suggested talks. Old hands on deck While old party hands in the Congress and the JD(S) had considered a post-election alliance well before polls, the possibility receded during the campaign when Rahul Gandhi repeatedly insinuated that the JD(S) had a tacit understanding with the BJP. This feeling was widespread amongst Rahul Gandhi's circle; JD(S) cadres, in the meantime, were livid as they felt Rahul's allegations cost them seats by depriving them of Muslim votes in their strongholds in south Karnataka. As the possibility of a fractured verdict loomed, Sonia Gandhi activated her wide network: Senior Congress leader and strategist Ghulam Nabi Azad met with a Delhi representative of the JD(S), Danish Ali, known to be the "eyes and ears" of the leader, and suggested talks. The CPI(M)'s Yechury, in the meantime, had emerged victorious from an internal party battle over the Communist party line towards the Congress. Yechury, who had argued for closer cooperation and won, was asked to mollify H.D. Deve Gowda. Sources said Deve Gowda reminded Yechury of the Congress's "whimsical" role in coalition governments, particularly when his Prime Ministership was toppled after only a year in power, and sought a categorical assurance that a coalition in Karnataka would last its full term. Sources close to Rahul Gandhi agreed that Sonia Gandhi was the "architect" of the plan, but said Rahul met with Ahmed Patel, Azad and Ashok Gehlot, before they left for Bengaluru, with instructions to keep the BJP out of Karnataka at all costs. The Congress's role, in each state, will likely be a reprisal of its role in Karnataka, where it will have to check its ambition to prop up a numerically smaller partner. United Front Redux? "There is no way a national pre-poll alliance will succeed in stopping the BJP," said a senior leader, involved in discussions. "There have to be region specific adjustments that could result in a post-poll alliance." The first anti-BJP front in 1996 with Deve Gowda as PM, the leader pointed out, was formed after the elections that followed the collapse of Atal Bihari Vajpayee's thirteen-day BJP government. The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance in 2004 was a consequence of a post-poll alliance as well. "In Uttar Pradesh, any adjustment would have to consider the supremacy of the BSP-SP alliance, in Bihar – maybe the RJD shall take the lead," the leader continued. The Congress's role, in each state, will likely be a reprisal of its role in Karnataka, where it will have to check its ambition to prop up a numerically smaller partner.
Julian Zelizer is a history and public affairs professor at Princeton University and the editor of " The Presidency of Barack Obama: A First Historical Assessment ." He's also the co-host of the "Politics & Polls" podcast. Follow him on Twitter: @julianzelizer . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. For more on the year that changed America, watch CNN's Original Series Event "1968" on Sunday, May 27 and Monday, May 28 at 9 p.m. ET. Almost two months since the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination, the nation yearned for heroes to save them from the turmoil. In the No. 1 song, "Mrs. Robinson," Simon and Garfunkel expressed the sentiment of many Americans when they wistfully asked: "Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio?" Families across the nation desperately searched for a champion as they were keenly aware of the devastating impact poor presidential decisions had caused overseas. And as Americans gathered at parades that May 30 to honor fallen soldiers, they were all burdened by one looming issue: the quagmire in Vietnam. "World War II, Korea, Vietnam and the crises in between no longer make young American males joke about being future cannon fodder," noted the editorial board of the Baltimore Sun. "It is a gnawing part of their conscious prospects." Memorial Day 1968 fell on a Thursday, and it was also the 100th anniversary of the holiday created to remember those killed in service. But this year, the country's commemorations felt different -- they were "sobered by the mounting loss of American lives in Vietnam," wrote Emanuel Perlmutter in The New York Times. In his message to the armed forces, President Lyndon B. Johnson spoke on behalf of the nation when he expressed the widespread sentiment that "We yearn for an end to war, for a time when the guns will be silenced forever and men can live as they wish." It is not surprising that LBJ felt this way, as the politics of the war were spinning out of control. This was also a presidential election year, and on March 31, President Johnson -- the one-time miracle worker who had pushed through Congress a historic number of domestic initiatives -- had shocked the nation by announcing on television that he would not run for re-election. He was exiting the race as two anti-war candidates, Minnesota Sen. Eugene McCarthy and New York Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, were trying to take on LBJ's Vice President Hubert Humphrey for the Democratic nomination by promoting their campaigns in large part as a vote against American involvement in Vietnam. Although Johnson had announced in his resignation speech that there would be a temporary bombing halt to allow for negotiations, many activists on the left did not believe him. Sen. McCarthy's spirits had been bolstered just ahead of Memorial Day '68 with his victory in the Oregon primary. It was welcome relief after RFK's dramatic entrance into the race, during which he had offered tough words about the US assumption of "the role of the world's judge and the world's policeman" to devastating effect. Vietnam, McCarthy agreed, "grew out of a systematic misconception of America and its role in the world." There would be over 500,000 Americans stationed in Southeast Asia by the end of the year. The number of casualties was rapidly rising. Robert McNamara, who had been the secretary of defense during the time of the buildup, had resigned in November 1967 to take over the World Bank. Throughout the nation, young Americans were taking to the streets and seizing control of college buildings to protest what the government was doing in the name of fighting communism. College students fighting against "LBJ's War," as they called it, were inspired by student protests around the globe that suggested a worldwide revolution was underway. Johnson was under intense pressure from a Democratic Congress to cut domestic spending in exchange for a tax surcharge that would help finance Vietnam and stave off inflation. Meanwhile, Republican Richard Nixon was on the campaign trail, licking his chops as he watched Democrats implode, sensing that the war might not just bring down the Democratic ticket but the entire Democratic coalition, along with Humphrey. LBJ's VP spent Memorial Day trying to calm the anger. Humphrey, who was still not prepared to break with his president, told a rain-drenched audience at the Gettysburg National Cemetery that "There is the hope that peace will eventually emerge -- perhaps now sooner than we think -- as the ally of history's sobering experience and youth's unconquerable spirit." Yet the war wasn't the only source of tension on Memorial Day. In Alexandria, Virginia, 50 civil rights activists gathered to protest the City Council's decision to display the Confederate flag. A few miles away in Washington, 1,000 protesters who were part of the Poor People's Campaign marched in the rain through the city's abandoned streets to call for economic justice. In other local gatherings, some marchers lashed out against the anti-war movement. One high school student in Watertown, Massachusetts, stood up in his hometown to say that, "Today, our forefathers are turning over in their graves because of the lack of courage being displayed by these cowardly draft card burners and by those who advocate dishonorable surrender to the enemy!" 1968 was a year of outrage, and Vietnam was one of many issues at the center of the fury. The country never really recovered from the devastating war, which wouldn't end until 1973 after more than 58,000 Americans were killed. The debates over Vietnam and its implications for US foreign policy continued to tear the country apart. Families would have to live with the painful memories of those who were killed or injured in the carnage, while veterans struggled emotionally and financially upon returning home to rebuild their life in a country that generally thought poorly of their service. It would be several decades before US presidents could build the political support needed to launch another major military operation, and even then the suspicion of our political leaders never disappeared. As we commemorate Memorial Day in 2018, it would be worth looking back to the trauma that the nation was suffering through 50 years earlier, when the dangerous waters our elected leaders can bring us into were crystal clear.
NEW DELHI — Paytm is under fire for allegedly sharing user data with Indian law enforcement agencies, but the popular e-wallet company's global investors — Softbank and Ant Financial, the Chinese internet giant behind Alibaba — are keeping mum. The silence of two of the world's biggest technology investors, privacy experts say, point to how technology companies, promising to create a more democratic and transparent world, are actually completely unaccountable to their users. Softbank, for instance, has a Privacy Policy for Personal Data for its European operations, but declined to comment on its obligations to Indian users. "Right now, the user is not in control and the service provider is in complete control," said Apar Gupta, a Delhi High Court lawyer, specialising in privacy-related issues. Last week, a sting operation by the Noida-based investigative news portal, Cobrapost, revealed a video in which a man, who is purportedly Ajay Shekhar, senior vice president of the company, appears to say that he personally received a phone call from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) after the protests in Kashmir, seeking data on Paytm users. Shekhar allegedly said that Paytm had a very close relationship with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the parent organization of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube If true, Paytm is in violation of its own privacy policy. HuffPost India has been unable to verify these claims independently, and Paytm has denied sharing any data with the BJP-ruled government. HuffPost wrote to Softbank and Alibaba — Paytm's biggest backers — and also to Uber, one of the most popular use-cases for Paytm. In India, Uber customers can use Paytm to pay for their rides, implying Paytm gathers a significant amount of Uber user data. Ant Financial and Alibaba collectively own close to 40% in One97 communications, Paytm's holding company, while Softbank, a Japanese internet and telecom conglomerate, owns about one-fifth of the $7 billion company. HuffPost asked the following questions: Are you aware of the sting investigation alleging that Paytm has shared user data with the Indian government in violation of its privacy policy? Are you concerned about the allegation that Paytm has shared user data with the Indian government? Have you reached out to Paytm regarding the allegations? What follow-up steps have you taken? Only Softbank replied: "Softbank does not comment on portfolio companies." HuffPost spoke with experts about the legal and ethical reasons that should drive investors to have a more proactive role in demanding accountability. Right now, the user is not in control and the service provider is in complete control. READ: We Are A Banana Republic, And The Aftermath Of Operation 136 Made The Mainstream Media Look Even Worse, Says Cobrapost Founder Legal reason Legal experts say that sharing of private data with the government or with any third party would contravene the right to privacy, a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. "The Supreme Court judgment is law," said Usha Ramanathan, a Supreme Court advocate, referring to the 2017 judgment, Justice KS Puttaswamy (Retd.) & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Ramanathan, who is challenging AADHAR as a breach of privacy, believes that there is no circumstance under which the government in India could demand private data from a service provider. For that to happen, Ramanathan explained, the government would first need to have a data protection law then stipulate any exceptions. All that exists right now is a data protection policy. In its statement, Paytm said, "Our policy allows ONLY legally compliant data requests from the law of the land to get access to data for necessary investigations." Even in a scenario where the government demands private data, say, for instance, by a court order, Gautam Bhatia, a Supreme Court advocate, noted that the question of legality or illegality did not arise unless Paytm reveals what were the precise circumstances of the exchange. "What were the safeguards that were taken?" he asked. There are some who argue that it may not be incumbent on investors to respond to an alleged privacy breach because the Supreme Court judgment is not enough to establish illegality, and India does not yet have a data protection law. But whether it is illegal or not, if the allegation against Paytm are true, it raises a huge ethical problem for investors. Ethical problem Ramanathan argues that foreign investments are about keeping companies on ethical lines. "You don't go to a country with less laws to violate the rights of people," she said. Earlier this year, a sovereign wealth fund sold its stake in Vedanta Resources Plc, a mining and metals company, over "environmental and human rights violations" by the firm. In 2010, the Church of England sold its shares of Vedanta Resources, citing its unhappiness at how the company treated the tribals of Orissa's Kalahandi district. One of the foreign investors in Paytm, Alibaba, is already tainted in China. Earlier this year, its affiliate, Ant Financial, was forced to apologize after its users complained that they were misled into giving their consent for its Alipay service to share data with third parties. You don't got to a country with less laws to violate the rights of people. READ: CobraPost Exposé: First Demonetisation Then Data Brokering; Should You Trust Paytm With Your Personal Data? Why the double standard? Uber has a mixed record when it comes to safeguarding private user data. On the one hand, the app-based cab service is known be fiercely protective about its data, for two reasons: competition and privacy. On the other hand, in 2016, it tried to conceal a hack that affected 57 million customers and drivers and payed $100,000 to the attackers to delete the data. Last year, in the face of mounting pressure to share its data with local governments for the sake of urban planning, Uber launched "Movement," a tool that allows city planners and the public to access to anonymous data on Uber trips. Privacy has been a concern for Uber, and, according to the terms and conditions of Movement, the data being shared is "anonymized and aggregated to ensure no personally identifiable information or user behavior can be surfaced through the Movement tool." Uber, however, did not reply to HuffPost's question: "One of the big reason that Indian consumers have signed up for Paytm is to pay for Uber rides. Are you concerned that Uber consumer data has been compromised by Paytm?" Way forward In India, a committee headed by Justice B.N. Srikrishna Committee, under the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, is looking to frame a data protection law. Gupta, the lawyer specializing in privacy-related issues, has argued that India should consider the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which makes it incumbent on companies to - at the request of a user - disclose all the data it has on the person. A user in EU can also ask a company to delete her data, send copies of the data or correct an error in data. The maximum fine for a GDPR violation is 20 million euros or four percent of a company's annual global revenue from the year before, whichever is higher. "It builds a system of accountability," Gupta said, speaking of the need for a similar policy in India. Also on HuffPost India:
(CNN) Catherine Phiri, 32, is currently Zambia's fiercest boxer -- and she has the accolades to show it. Phiri was the first African woman to win a prestigious World Boxing Council Gold title in 2016. However, her battles haven't just been in the ring. Phiri is from a poor family and she's thrown punches to patriarchy too: "Catherine Phiri has said no to marriage, she has concentrated on her career and education," Malambo Frank, Phiri's headteacher, told CNN. "I knew that one day... she was going to make it," said her coach Mike Zulu. In the ring Zambia's Esther Phiri paved the way for the country's boxing boom. Zambia isn't a country that instantly springs to mind when you think of boxing, unlike Cuba, USA and the UK. However, the popularity of the sport is growing fast. Tournaments take place every Saturday for amateurs to fight in. Clubs in the city's poorer neighborhoods, like Exodus International Boxing Promotions which has five girls in the under-20 national team, use these competitions to showcase their best talent. Catherine Phiri was no different, and despite initially playing football, once she started throwing punches she didn't want to stop. Journey to the top JUST WATCHED Rising stars of female boxing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rising stars of female boxing 07:27 "I was 16 when I started boxing and before I started boxing, my passion was football but I wanted something which was individual," Phiri told CNN. Phiri was quickly picked up by boxing coaches who admired her technique and clean fighting abilities. "My colleague Chris Mulunga, he was the one who first spotted Catherine Phiri. He came to me and said: 'Mike, there's a female boxer that I think if we bring her here and she's under your tutelage, I think she can go very far,'" said Zulu. After achieving success on the amateur circuit, Phiri turned to professional boxing. She joined a boxing club run by Christopher Malunga, and made big gains. In 2013, she won her first World Boxing Council title fight in Lusaka, to become the African Boxing Union Bantamweight Champion. However her dedication to the sport meant she had previously sidelined education. "I was very determined to become a world champion but by then I had no interest to be in school so that's why I chose boxing over school," said Phiri. Education and elite sport don't always make time for each other, but Malunga insisted, and eventually persuaded her to go back to school at the age of 18 on a scholarship. Her dedication has paid off, and the hours in school didn't appear to damage her boxing prospects. Phiri is now a legend of Zambian boxing. Training to be the best JUST WATCHED Inspiring the next generation of female boxers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inspiring the next generation of female boxers 06:20 If you've even seen any boxing film, you'll know the lengths boxers go to to be the best. The sweat, the blood and broken noses, and the hours spent mentally and physically preparing to fight. Phiri's training routine is no different. "In amateur, I used to train once a day. As a professional boxer, at Oriental (boxing club), we train three times a day when preparing for a big fight," she said. "In the morning we go for a run which is about 10 to 12 kilometers and then in the afternoon it's physical work and then at 5pm it's boxing." Phiri has broken new ground in African boxing and is now a global success. However, she wants women's boxing to have more dedicated events. "For me, what I desire most is that one day we promote only girls whereby we call it Ladies Night like they do in South Africa and East London where we see only ladies fighting on that same bill. I'm sure it will happen, looking at the girls who are coming up from amateur, it will happen," said Phiri.
Ms. Meghan Markle arrives at Cliveden House Hotel, accompanied by her mother Ms. Doria Ragland #RoyalWedding pic.twitter.com/SqOFhb0Wr5 — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) May 18, 2018 Ragland met some members of the royal family in the days leading up to the nuptials, including Prince Charles, his wife Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Queen Elizabeth. We asked body language experts to analyze Ragland’s behavior, posture and interactions with the royal family on the wedding day. The public got a first glimpse of the bride and her mother as they pulled up to the chapel together, a moment captured in the image below. OLI SCARFF via Getty Images Meghan, now the Duchess of Sussex, arrives at St. George's Chapel with her mother, Doria Ragland. Body language expert Traci Brown, author of Persuasion Point: Body Language and Speech for Influence, noted that Meghan and her mom have similar ― though not identical ― excited expressions on their faces. Meghan’s smile appears more relaxed than her mother’s, which makes sense because Ragland isn’t as accustomed to being in the limelight. “Her mom has her eyebrows raised and we can see more of the whites of her eyes. That says surprise,” Brown said. “I bet she’s just a tad overwhelmed with the crowds and attention. It’s understandable that she’s not going to be quite as used to the attention as her daughter, who’s spent the last year or so getting used to it. But she’s done a good job of practicing her beauty queen wave!” Many royal wedding viewers also took note of Ragland’s interactions with Charles, who appeared to be going out of his way to make sure she felt comfortable and included. Prince Charles takes the hand of Doria Ragland, Meghan Markle’s mother, as they move from the Quire for the signing of the registers. https://t.co/9c7Q1NnHMS #RoyalWedding pic.twitter.com/rKpXjT6AIF — ABC News (@ABC) May 19, 2018 Case in point: In the video above, we see Charles take Ragland’s hand as they leave to witness the signing of the marriage register. Joe Navarro, body language expert and author of What Every Body is Saying: An Ex-FBI Agent’s Guide to Speed-Reading People, called this a particularly “lovely moment.” “Prince Charles, who is not known for being touchy-feely even with his own children, made sure Markle’s mother transitioned, hand-in-hand, with the entourage to the register,” he said. OWEN HUMPHREYS via Getty Images Charles and Ragland exit St. George's Chapel together. They appeared to be chummy, despite having only met a couple of days prior. Mark Bowden, body language expert and author of Truth and Lies: What People Are Really Thinking, said this royal wedding signifies not only the union of Harry and Meghan, but also that of their families ― and even the union of the U.S. and the U.K. “Therefore, the way the two sides interact with each other, from the couple’s kiss to the physical placement and connection of family members with one another, has a bigger significance,” Bowden said. As the royal family stood before the adoring public on the steps outside the chapel following the ceremony, Charles continued to show his warm support for Ragland. JANE BARLOW via Getty Images Charles walks arm-in-arm down the steps outside the chapel with both Ragland (left) and Camilla (right). “There is a saying in the U.K.: to be ‘treated like a Duchess,’ which means to be treated like royalty and given great service, respect and honor,” Bowden said. “Prince Charles shows Doria, the only family member present from the bride’s side, exactly the same physical treatment as the duchess on his other arm.” “Though we could say this is just being polite, there is an etiquette in the royal circles which also bears huge weight and significance,” he added. WPA Pool via Getty Images Ragland was all smiles after the emotional ceremony. Brown also noticed that Charles acted protective of Ragland, and that Ragland seemed to depend on him in return. “We always see her standing close with a hand on him,” Brown said. “I’m sure she’s not used to the kind of hubbub they’re all experiencing so we see her reach for the calming support.” WPA Pool via Getty Images Throughout the day, Charles seemed to make an effort to make Ragland feel welcome. Charles frequently responded by resting a hand on Ragland and looking her in the eyes, as to give her his full attention. “Even on Harry’s way out of the church, we see the groom look back to check on the family, only to find that Charles is taking care of Meghan’s mom,” Brown said. BEN STANSALL via Getty Images Harry turns around to find his father Charles taking good care of Meghan's mom. An unnamed royal staffer told Vogue last week that Ragland and the royal family “all got on extremely well” during their pre-wedding sit-downs ― a sentiment that Brown observed during the actual nuptials. “They’ve really embraced her as part of the group, showing their full support and just how classy they are,” she said. A post shared by Kensington Palace (@kensingtonroyal) on May 21, 2018 at 6:51am PDT
Mitt Romney, who is running for the U.S. Senate from Utah, has had a hit-or-miss relationship with President Donald Trump over the years. In the 2016 presidential primary, Romney was at the forefront of the “Never Trump” movement. But now the president has endorsed him over in the Republican primary race. Of course, that doesn’t make them BFFs. “I don’t think that I would point to the president as a role model for my grandkids on the basis of his personal style,” Romney said earlier this week in an interview with NBC News. Romney also revealed this week that he did not vote for Trump in the 2016 general election for president. “I wrote in the name of a person who I admire deeply, who I think would be an excellent president,” Romney told the Deseret News and KSL editorial boards. “I realized it wasn’t going to go anywhere, but nonetheless felt that I was putting in a very solid name.”
Costa Mesa, California (CNN) David Daleiden wanted to show exactly what a 19-week-old aborted fetus, being held in the hands of a medical technician, looked like. The problem was he didn't have that picture. So he went to the Internet, found something close and inserted it into his documentary. The photo, two cupped hands holding a tiny male fetus, appeared on screen as dramatic music played. Against this backdrop, a medical technician detailed how she was present when an intact 19-week gestated fetus was aborted at a Planned Parenthood clinic and, she says, harvested for tissue samples. Daleiden's video failed to mention that the photo and the story do not match. Abortion photo actually stillborn child The photo was not an aborted fetus at a Planned Parenthood clinic. It was the stillborn child of Alexis Fretz, whose son was stillborn in 2013. Fretz took the photo and posted it on the Internet to memorialize the son she named Walter. CNN Investigations Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. Without Fretz's knowledge, Daleiden and his two-man documentary group called the Center for Medical Progress plucked that photo from her web page and dropped it into his anti-Planned Parenthood documentary. "Was it clear?" Fretz asks herself in a CNN interview, "No it was not clear. Was it deceitful? I don't know that." Daleiden told CNN the fact that the photo is not an actual photo of an aborted fetus makes no difference. He insists the fetus is the same age as the one referred to in his film, and he used it only as an illustration. Misleading video cited in Republican debate Daleiden also is being criticized for a second, potentially misleading use of video that has found its way into the Republican presidential campaign. GOP candidate Carly Fiorina cited a portion of the Center for Medical Progress videos in which an intact fetus kicks its left leg and moves an arm shortly after being aborted. Fiorina described the video during CNN's Republican debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential library on September 16, using the horrific image in her call for an end to federal funding for Planned Parenthood. In an interview in Southern California earlier this month, Daleiden now admits he has no information on where the video was actually taken. There is no evidence it was taken at a Planned Parenthood clinic. Daleiden says the image came from an outside source, an anti-abortion group called the Center For Bioethical Reform and he doesn't know its origin beyond that. A spokesman for the group tells CNN it won't disclose the location either, only that the video in question was paid for. Despite its source, Daleiden again insists the video is only used as an illustration of what an intact aborted fetus would look like, not the actual fetus referred to in his film. JUST WATCHED Checking Fiorina's claims on an anti-abortion video Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Checking Fiorina's claims on an anti-abortion video 03:55 Critics call videos heavily edited, discredited The two examples of misleading pictures and video have allowed Planned Parenthood and its supporters to label the Center for Medical Progress's entire production a fraud. Dawn Laguens, an executive vice president with Planned Parenthood, repeated the defense the women's health group and its many supporters have been trying to convey since the first of the Center for Medical Progress's nine videos began to be released online. "All of the tapes and footage David Daleiden has released out into the world has been heavily edited," Laguens told CNN. "And I think pretty thoroughly discredited." Daleiden insists the two uses of video and photos are not misleading, and says the entire controversy has been manufactured by Planned Parenthood and its "allies in the mainstream media" in order to divert attention from the main point of his documentary: that Planned Parenthood uses aborted fetal tissue as a revenue source. Planned Parenthood ends payments The Center for Medical Progress spent several years taping Planned Parenthood employees, medical directors and some of its affiliate partners discussing the technique, costs and reimbursement payments for the harvesting of fetal tissue samples for scientific research. The filming was done without knowledge of those speaking. In several instances, CMP argues that Planned Parenthood representatives appear to be bargaining, negotiating and detailing the best ways to collect or "harvest" aborted fetuses for maximum financial gain. In one episode, Dr. Mary Gatter, a medical director for Planed Parenthood, is filmed during a meal discussing her proposal that each tissue sample harvested should fetch a $75 charge. JUST WATCHED The fight to defund Planned Parenthood Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The fight to defund Planned Parenthood 05:29 Since selling fetal tissue samples is illegal, Planned Parenthood has been quick to label the transactions as reimbursement costs and that they were made only at a tiny fraction of the organization's 700 clinics and affiliates. Planned Parenthood executives continue to claim the videos are heavily edited, taken out of context and deceptive. But last week Planned Parenthood announced it would no longer accept any reimbursement costs at any of its clinics for the transfer of fetal tissue-samples. In a letter to the National Institutes of Health, Planned Parenthood's president defended her organization and insisted all transactions in the past were legal. But says the new change in policy was being taken "...in order to take away any basis for attacking Planned Parenthood to advance an anti-abortion political agenda." Contacted after the announcement, Daleiden says the sudden change in policy is an admission that he and his videos were right. "If the money Planned Parenthood has been receiving for baby body parts were truly legitimate 'reimbursement,' why cancel it?" Daleiden wrote in a statement to CNN. "This proves what the Center for Medical Progress has been saying all along -- Planned Parenthood incurs no actual costs, and the payments for harvested fetal parts have always been an extra profit margin."
(CNN) Seeing a rainbow often fills people with a sense of joy, regardless of whether it is their first or 19th time witnessing the colorful creation. Rainbow Gatherings -- annual events that take place throughout the world -- encompass a vibrant mixture of the environment and people to produce a similar feeling of excitement. Photographer Matjaz Krivic's "Somewhere Under the Rainbow" series was shot over 19 years at Rainbow Gatherings in various countries. According to Krivic, the meaning behind the name of the events originates from an ancient Hopi Native American prophecy about "Rainbow Warriors." Rainbow Gatherings involve a temporary community of people who meet to share their similar ideals -- peace, harmony, freedom and respect. Those participating in the gatherings collectively refer to themselves as a "Rainbow Family." The community, which welcomes a wide spectrum of ages, comes together to embrace nature and establish an alternative space away from society's popular culture of consumerism, materialism and mass media. Photographer Matjaz Krivic Those who attend are not required to pay any form of money, not even for food, and the gatherings do not have rigid structures of dominance nor one specific leader. Instead, Rainbow Gatherings are essentially idealistic movements driven by the convergence of its community's beliefs in a more equitable society and its people's love and tolerance for one another. "The magic hat goes around and you put money if you have or if you want," Krivic said. "(But) nobody needs to pay for the food. Everybody is welcome to go and eat there." Krivic says that Rainbow Gatherings also tend to take place in regions of the world that "need to be healed" after having experienced devastating conflicts. Past gatherings include those held in Serbia, Bosnia and Ukraine. "I really don't like what's going on in this world. ... There's just so much stuff happening," Krivic said. "You can always go to (Rainbow Gatherings) and stay there and have a nice time, and you don't even have to pay for it. It will be a nice time, nice energy, not aggressive." One of the most enjoyable aspects about Rainbow Gatherings is the many workshops and activities that are available, where people engage in and learn about everything from yoga and tai chi to meditation and healing techniques. Another significant part of Rainbow Gatherings is the all-encompassing sound. "I like the music, I'm an audiophile. I like all sorts of music, but when I go there it's live, it's there," Krivic said. "It's like two guys playing and eventually it's like 50 people playing and the music is just so beautiful." The first Rainbow Gathering took place in Colorado in 1972, and it is believed to have been organized by youth counterculture "tribes" from Northern California and the Pacific Northwest. Since then, the gatherings have extended to other areas in the United States as well as a number of different countries. The international gatherings generally take place during the summer, before August's full moon. According to Krivic, the exact locations of some of the Rainbow Gatherings are revealed through hand-drawn maps and presented to those who have attended a gathering in the past. Social media Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. Krivic has had a diverse range of experiences at Rainbow Gatherings, and maintaining a consistent photographic process over the years has enabled him to witness firsthand the growth of his photography. Ever since his first Rainbow Gathering, Krivic has been using the same two film cameras and lenses. "The gatherings didn't change," Krivic said, "but my photography did change -- a lot. ... I consider photography differently now." Krivic says a key consideration when taking photos was the use of film cameras as opposed to digital, which he believes do not fit in with the atmosphere of the gatherings. He also had to carefully decide who to photograph. "I had some friends and I could take photos of them, and then eventually when I was going on and on, it just became like a family," he said. "It's like people that you know for 20 years and you see them every year." Just as every person sees a rainbow in their own unique way, "Somewhere Under the Rainbow" enables viewers to let their vision roam freely around every corner of the photos, leaving them to cultivate their own perspectives and ripen their imaginations. In one photo, Krivic takes viewers to Pakistan in 1998, where a man mesmerizes viewers as he stands in pristine blue water holding a mango in his hands. It's then 2003 in France. Light rays power through colossal trees, illuminating tents and tepees and dosing the atmosphere with warmth. Viewers later discover a delicate morning hug between a man and woman at last year's Rainbow Gathering in Hungary, with a sunflower softly blooming out of a ukulele. As for Krivic, he feels that "Somewhere Under the Rainbow" is not finished and will never be. "I will never complete it. I will always go because I like it," he said. "I will take photos again of friends, and just go on with it."
(CNN) Here's a look at the life of Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro. Personal: Birth date: November 23, 1962 Birth place: Caracas, Venezuela Birth name: Nicolás Maduro Moros Parents: Names unknown publicly Marriage: Cilia Flores Children: Nicolás Jr. Other Facts: Worked as a bus driver for Caracas Metro and belonged to the transit union. Maduro campaigned for Hugo Chavez's release from prison for the 1992 attempted coup to overthrow President Carlos Andres Perez. After Chavez's release, Maduro helped him found the political party Fifth Republic Movement. Timeline: 1983 - Bodyguard for presidential hopeful Jose Vicente Rangel. 1992 - Is introduced to Hugo Chavez. 1999 - Maduro is elected to the National Constituent Assembly, the body convened to draft a new constitution. 2000 - Is elected to the National Assembly, the country's legislative branch of government 2005-2006 - Serves as Speaker of the National Assembly. 2006-2013 - Serves as Foreign Minister. October 12, 2012 - Is selected by President Chavez to serve as his vice president. December 9, 2012 - Facing his fourth surgery for cancer, Chavez endorses Maduro to succeed him. March 8, 2013 - Is sworn in as interim president following the death of Chavez three days earlier. April 14, 2013 - Wins the presidential election by fewer than two percentage points over Henrique Capriles Radonski. April 19, 2013 - Maduro is sworn in a day after the National Electoral Council announces plans to complete an audit of votes cast in the April 14 election. September 30, 2013 - Maduro announces on state-run VTV that he is expelling three US diplomats. He claims they were involved in a widespread power outage earlier in the month. "Get out of Venezuela," he says, listing several names. "Yankee go home. Enough abuses already." February 12, 2014 - Student protests in Venezuela that started earlier in the month attract global attention when three people are killed. Major social and economic problems have fueled the protests, with some blaming Venezuela's government for those problems. February 20, 2014 - Venezuela revokes press credentials for CNN journalists in the country and denies them for other CNN journalists entering the country, following Maduro's announcement that Venezuela revokes press credentials for CNN journalists in the country and denies them for other CNN journalists entering the country, following Maduro's announcement that he would expel CNN if it did not "rectify" its coverage of anti-government protests, calling it war propaganda. February 21, 2014 - Maduro calls for Maduro calls for US President Barack Obama to "accept the challenge" of holding direct talks with Venezuela. February 22, 2014 - Venezuela reissues press credentials for CNN journalists in the country. January 15, 2016 - Following the release of years of economic data, Following the release of years of economic data, Maduro declares a state of "economic emergency." October 30, 2016 - Maduro Maduro sits down to engage in talks with political opponents for the first time in two years, in order to find a compromise among Venezuelan political parties. July 31, 2017 - US Treasury Department sanctions freeze Maduro's assets subject to US jurisdiction and bar US citizens from dealing with him. This comes a day after elections are held for a new lawmaking body in Venezuela. The department says the National Constituent Assembly US Treasury Department sanctions freeze Maduro's assets subject to US jurisdiction and bar US citizens from dealing with him. This comes a day after elections are held for a new lawmaking body in Venezuela. The department says the National Constituent Assembly "aspires illegitimately to usurp the constitutional role of the democratically elected National Assembly, rewrite the constitution, and impose an authoritarian regime on the people of Venezuela." January 24, 2018 - Announces he will run for re-election. May 20, 2018 - Maduro is re-elected president with 68% of the vote. Turnout is 46%, below the 2013 rate which was 80%. Henri Falcon, his opponent, says he will not recognize the results. Maduro is re-elected president with 68% of the vote. Turnout is 46%, below the 2013 rate which was 80%. Henri Falcon, his opponent, says he will not recognize the results. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo denounces the election as a sham.
Washington (CNN) Texas Sen. Ted Cruz has an 11-percentage point lead over his Democratic challenger, Rep. Beto O'Rourke, a jump that appears tied to President Donald Trump's increased popularity, new Quinnipiac University poll shows. The poll out Wednesday shows Cruz ahead with 50% of likely voters' support compared to O'Rourke's 39%. That's a significant shift from Quinnipiac's April survey that showed O'Rourke just three points behind Cruz. Cruz's improvement in the survey tracks closely with Trump's popularity. Trump is now at an even 47% approval and 47% disapproval rating -- compared to 43% approval and 52% disapproval in April. The new survey showed Cruz appearing popular with voters. A majority of Texas voters, 52%, approve of his job performance. He's viewed favorably by 49% and unfavorably by 38%. O'Rourke is seen favorably by 30% and unfavorably by 19%, an indication he is not yet particularly well-known. Read More
Los Angeles (CNN) Thousands of veterans who are patients at the VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System have been waiting months just for an appointment, CNN has learned. What's more, administrators in charge of the massive VA facility in greater Los Angeles may have been hiding wait times, and may have misled Congress on the delays and exactly how long veterans are being forced to wait for care, according to new information obtained by CNN. This revelation means that the scandal over delays in care and wait times for veterans, which embroiled the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs last year and even led to the resignation of VA Secretary Eric Shinseki, is apparently not over. And the changes promised by the VA and the Obama administration may not be working. The detailed new evidence comes from the Los Angeles VA's own internal documents obtained by CNN, and numerous medical and administrative sources confirmed the information. It is particularly significant as the Greater Los Angeles Veterans Medical Center is the nation's largest VA health care system, caring for hundreds of thousands of U.S. veterans. The VA documents show more than 12,700 appointments, which the VA calls consults, had been waiting more than 90 days to be addressed, as of mid-January. Even new patients seeking care at the Los Angeles VA for the first time can wait months to see a doctor there. Records show on January 15, more than 1,600 veterans who were new patients were waiting 60 to 90 days for appointments. Another 400 veterans have waited up to six months, and 64 veterans had been waiting six months to a year for their appointments. The documents provided to CNN show the lengthy wait times are still happening, within the last several months, and sources say the backlog is happening even now. And yet last month, the VA's acting director for the Western region overseeing the Los Angeles VA told Congress that veterans who are new patients there only have to wait a few days for appointments. "The average wait time for a new patient right now is about four days," Dr. Skye McDougall, the acting director of the Desert Pacific Healthcare Network, Veterans Health Administration, testified before the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs. But McDougall's statement is simply not true. According to the Los Angeles VA's documents dated January 15, the actual average wait time for new patients at the VA was 48 days. A half-dozen medical and administrative sources inside the LA VA system corroborate these waits. The wait times since then have not changed significantly -- coming down slightly to a wait time of 44 days for new patients as of March 1, according to another VA document -- and are still roughly 10 times what McDougall testified they were. The delays in appointments are even taking place at Los Angeles clinics for mental health, where documents show more than 300 veterans have been waiting more than 30, 60, even 90 days for treatment. At the congressional hearing, McDougall was specifically asked about mental health wait times for new patients, a growing national concern as hundreds of veterans are committing suicide every year Asked how long the wait time is for mental health at the Los Angeles VA, McDougall testified that the same number -- a four days' wait for new patients -- applies for mental health. But that is also not true, according to the documents and sources inside the VA who spoke with CNN. A new LA VA chart shows as of March 1, new mental health patients in Los Angeles are waiting an average 36 days just to get an appointment. Los Angeles VA officials would not talk to CNN about the discrepancies but instead sent a statement saying that the "Greater Los Angeles and VA nationwide continues to work very hard to get Veterans off waiting lists and into clinics to get the care they have earned and deserve." The VA sent CNN new "retrospective data" showing primary care average wait times of four days, specialty care wait times of 7.5 days, and mental health wait times of 2.5 days, as of January. The VA explained that the chart for new patients obtained by CNN "does not include same day appointments or in some cases same week appointments for those Veterans who need care quickly...." New patients, the VA told CNN, "typically account for less than 10% of all Veteran appointments and are not representative of the whole patient population." Despite the "retrospective data," the real truth, say the sources CNN has interviewed, is reflected in the internal LA VA documents obtained by CNN -- that wait times for many patients at the Los Angeles VA Medical Centers extends into weeks and months and are a serious problem. This news of continuing delays in Los Angeles comes a year after reports of cover-ups and turmoil at the VA, which became a national scandal, where wait times, veterans' deaths and even secret waiting lists were revealed at VA hospitals across the country. Congress even passed a new law last fall to help veterans get care more quickly, as a direct result of the scandal. And since the scandal, Congress has approved $16 billion extra for the VA in an attempt to hire more doctors and nurses and to build more facilities. The VA removed its 14-day scheduling goal to discourage engaging in "inappropriate scheduling practices," and President Barack Obama also appointed a new VA secretary, Robert McDonald , last summer. Sources in the Greater Los Angeles VA say despite the scandal last year, the new secretary, the new laws and all the attention, not much has changed.
The Danish Parliament voted on Thursday to ban clothing that covers the face, including the niqab and burqa worn by some Muslim women. Denmark’s center-right government enacted the law with a vote of 75-30, with 74 absent, The Associated Press reported. The decision puts the country in league with France, Austria and Belgium, which have adopted similar laws. The government said that the law is not aimed at any specific religion. Along with Islamic full-face veils, balaclavas would also be banned, Agence France-Presse reported. The law does not ban headscarves, turbans, Jewish skull caps or face coverings worn for a “recognizable purpose” during cold weather or while riding a motorcycle. Still, the law has become known as a “burqa ban” directed at Muslim women who wear veils as part of their spiritual practice. The burqa covers the face completely, leaving a net screen for women to see through, while the niqab leaves the area around the eyes open. Ritzau Scanpix Denmark / Reuters Women in niqabs observe the Danish Parliament as it bans face veils in public in a vote Thursday at Christiansborg Palace in Copenhagen. Most Muslim women in Denmark do not wear full-face veils. In fact, a 2009 study from the University of Copenhagen suggests that the number of Muslim women who wear niqabs in Denmark ranges from 100 to 200. After the law goes into effect on Aug. 1, first-time offenders face a fine of 1,000 kroner ($156). Repeat offenders could risk fines of up to 10,000 kroner ($1,571), plus jail time of up to six months. Anyone who forces another person to cover their face could be thrown in jail for up to two years. Justice Minister Soeren Pape Poulsen said that police officers will be trusted to use “common” sense when they see people violating the law. He told Reuters that officers would fine the violators and tell them to “go home.” In February, when the Danish government formally proposed the face veil ban, Poulsen said that such veils were “disrespectful” to the community. “With a ban on covering the face, we are drawing a line in the sand and underlining that in Denmark we show each other trust and respect by meeting face to face,” Poulsen said. Muslim activists have claimed that European governments’ attempts to ban face veils are more of a “symbolic stance” that frames Muslim women and their religious beliefs as antagonistic to European societies. Lamia El Amri, chair of the international advocacy group European Forum of Muslim Women, told HuffPost earlier this year that burqa bans are a reflection of a “dangerous rise” in Islamophobic political rhetoric in Europe. “We can see that nothing or very little has been done by these governments in ... protecting women against Islamophobic hate crimes,” Amri, a resident of Sweden, told HuffPost. “We would be happy to see governments addressing real problems and security issues that Muslim women face in their everyday life.” MADS CLAUS RASMUSSEN via Getty Images Women wearing niqabs sit in the gallery at the Danish Parliament in Copenhagen on Thursday. A Pew Research Center study published this week found that Danish Christians are more likely than religiously unaffiliated Danes to say that Islam is fundamentally incompatible with Danish culture and values. Fifty-five percent of Christians in Denmark who go to religious services at least once a month agree that Islam is incompatible with Danish culture. Amnesty International’s Europe director Gauri van Gulik said that the ban fails to protect women’s rights and instead criminalizes women who choose to wear face veils.
TERRACE, B.C. — A 13-year-old girl has died after catching fire at a backyard firepit in British Columbia, leaving her family searching for answers about what exactly happened. Lynn Peerless says she looked out her backyard window in Terrace last week when she heard her daughter Grace screaming and saw her hair on fire. "I yelled at her to stop, drop and roll and I yelled at my son who was also home at the time to grab the garden hose, because I saw her on fire," Peerless said in an interview Thursday. "I'll never forget looking out my window and seeing my daughter with her hair on fire." Peerless said the family was burning some branches from a fallen tree in the firepit, which she described as an old washing machine mounted on a pole 45 to 60 centimetres off the ground, making it "impossible" to fall into. Grace Peerless from Terrace, B.C. is shown in a family handout photo. Grace was alone, she said, so no one saw the fire spread, but Peerless believes an ember may have landed on her daughter's hair or clothing. Hairspray may have acted as an accelerant. Doctors told her that Grace had a 95 per cent chance of surviving before she was taken to B.C. Children's Hospital in Vancouver for treatment, she said. After spending time with Grace in the hospital, Peerless went to the Easter Seals House to get some sleep for the first time in almost three days. That's when she was told Grace had experienced medical complications. The B.C. Coroners Service is investigating the exact cause of death, but Peerless said she was told Grace had mostly second-degree burns to between 25 and 30 per cent of her body. She was scheduled for surgery before she went into cardiac arrest. Grace grew up with fires The coroners service investigates all sudden and unexpected deaths and is also responsible for investigating all child deaths in B.C. The service said it cannot release or confirm an identity due to privacy legislation, but it is in the early stages of an investigation involving a teenage girl from Terrace who died in hospital in Vancouver on Saturday after she was injured in Terrace on May 24. Peerless described Grace as a girl who loved fashion, loved singing and had a "bounce in her step." She was the kind of kid who got along with pretty well everyone, floating between social circles, her mother said. Grace grew up with fire and understood fire safety well, said Peerless. "Fire is part of our culture in northern B.C., so children in this area are raised from the time they're infants (to) know fire safety," she said. " This wasn't some city kid who has never seen a fire in her life, who was around the fire by herself. "It feels like we're in a bad dream." Also on HuffPost:
Washington (CNN) The first big primary night of 2018 is in the books. It was tough going for some Republican House members looking for a promotion. But it also might cause a little heartburn for Republicans who are hoping to return to the chamber, or join it for the first time. Based on Tuesday's results, CNN is moving four races to a more competitive ranking -- all in favor of the Democrats. In three of those contests, Republicans remain strong favorites to hold the seat, but Democrats landed candidates they feel are good fits for the districts. That also is true in the fourth race on the list, which moves to the Toss-Up column. Of the 22 races now rated as Toss-Ups, 20 are currently held by Republicans. As a reminder, Democrats need a net gain of 23 seats in order to win control of the House. NC-09: GOP Rep. Robert Pittenger became the first incumbent to lose a renomination contest this cycle, creating an open seat opportunity for Democrats where the party had already landed a strong challenger. Democrat Dan McCready, a Marine Corps veteran and clean energy entrepreneur, received nearly 38,000 votes Tuesday -- roughly 4,000 more than Pittenger and GOP primary winner Mark Harris combined. McCready heads into the general election with $1.2 million in the bank compared to about $70,000 for Harris, a former pastor. This district went for Donald Trump by 12 points in 2016, but Democrats hold a clear edge in enthusiasm at this stage of the race. Race moves from Lean Republican to Toss-Up. Read More
Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review, and a former CNN producer and correspondent. Follow her @FridaGhitis . The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers. (CNN) It's too bad Superman is not running for president of the United States; this would have been his year. Americans, as we have discovered, are angry, frustrated, disillusioned -- and yearning for a savior. This happened before, almost a century ago in Europe. It was a time of despair; a time when the old models didn't seem to be working, when the world was changing in confusing ways, and hyperconfident individuals proposed a way out by blaming scapegoats and promising exciting, almost miraculous change. The results proved catastrophic. No, America is not 1930s Germany, not by a long shot. But the images of Europe after World War I keep coming to mind. The parallels are not precise, but we hear the echoes, see the shadows. We should heed the warnings. Who would have thought that in the 21st century, American voters would be seriously considering as presidential candidates a neofascist and a neosocialist -- throwbacks to the old, failed utopias? Talk about fashionably retro! Looking at Donald Trump stoking his supporters into a frenzy, attacking "them" -- whoever "they" happen to be at the moment -- vowing to return American to greatness and then flashing his self-satisfied smile, the mind harks back to those grainy newsreel images of Benito Mussolini , the theatrical Italian "Duce," the leader, who became the central figure of fascist Italy a century ago. Is Trump a fascist? No, not quite. In fact, Trump doesn't propose anything close to a coherent ideology. He's a Trumpist. And we're only learning what that means, along with him, as he makes it up. Fascists viewed the nation as an organism superseding the needs of the individual. That does not match Trump's rhetoric. But fascists also ridiculed and suppressed the opposition, and they embraced a level of authoritarianism that we can only hope Trump would reject. But who knows? Cult of personality One distinct similarity between Trump and the populist politicians of the 1930s is his ability to create and draw power from a cult of personality. The Republican front-runner's main campaign platform is that he will make everything OK. Trump will fix it. Trump will make America great again. How? That's not clear. He will do it by the power of his Trumpness. And we know it will work because look at him; look at how successful he is. Look how strong and fearless he is. There's very little in the way of substance. There's just a lot of Trump. And to prove how much America needs him, he reminds voters that America is in deep, deep trouble. He hints at nefarious conspiracies; he highlights every problem and every threat, making it sound as ominous as possible. And then he vows to tackle it without mercy, even if it means committing war crimes, violating the Constitution , and expelling millions of people from the country. That, incidentally, would create the digital color version of those 1930s deportations : armed U.S. security forces (very armed) leading frightened people to the trains. (Or would he make them walk across the border?) Charisma is a dangerous power in the wrong hands. When combined with popular discontent and disorienting change it can make a travesty of democracy and it can disfigure a society. Validating prejudices Trump has an uncanny ability to bring out the worst instincts in people. He validates the prejudices that people try to erase from their hearts. Trump seems alarmingly reluctant to distance himself from support from the KKK. Instead of debating ideas and policies, Trump insults and mocks people. He routinely appears to advocate violence against protesters, another disturbing throwback to the 1930s, and he draws a sharp distinction between "us" and "them." We don't know what kind of a president he would be. It's hard to imagine he would continue to speak of punching people in the face, or that he would continue to mock people with disabilities, or follow through with any of his illegal or nonsensical proposals as a head of state. But there's no telling. He has already defied all predictions. In a new turn of events since Thursday's GOP debate, Trump's opponents, who had seemed intimidated by Trump's savaging of Jeb Bush, have finally decided to take him on. It's good to see them challenging his empty offerings, but it's unsettling to see Sen. Marco Rubio also resorting to personality-driven attacks, eliciting uproarious laughter from his supporters. Despite the laughs, it's a sad sight. Sanders found a scapegoat Then there's the other end of the political spectrum: Sen. Bernie Sanders, the longtime Independent socialist politician now running as a Democrat. Sanders is no 1930s Marxist. He is not advocating the takeover by the state of the means of production and the abolition of private property. But in the spirit of his socialist convictions, he too has found a scapegoat for all that ails America. Sanders would squeeze the rich, for whom he does not hide his contempt. In the manner of a demagogue, he declared , "Fraud is the business model of Wall Street." Sanders proposes social programs containing the seed of potentially useful ideas, and he undoubtedly points to very real flaws in the system. But his overall approach, if it could ever be implemented, has the makings of an economic disaster . We know that because it was already tried. Hillary Clinton's overwhelming victory in South Carolina may mark the beginning of the end for the Sanders movement, perhaps a sign that voters know Sanders' idealistic offerings, no matter how appealing, are disconnected from what is possible. His plans would create deficits so large that there are not enough zeroes in calculator displays to hold them. His plans would produce deficits of between $18 trillion to $30 trillion (with a T) from new spending. You can squeeze the Wall Street billionaires as hard as you want. Even they don't have that much money. And while you're at it, see what happens to the economy if you impose the taxes required to even start those programs. Sanders running honorable but mistaken campaign Both Trump and Sanders are advocating granting much greater powers to the government. To be sure, Sanders appears to be aiming to force discussion of important issues in the campaign, and, unlike Trump, has run an honorable, throughtful and respectful campaign. Trump would apparently expand government to secure the country from enemies and from immigrants. Sanders would do it to pay for social plans. Both positions carry a faint whiff of Nirvana, telling voters who feel unsettled -- by growing inequality, expensive unwon wars, and a sense that America is starting to fall behind -- that they have an answer to repair the country, to make them feel safe. Again, this is not Europe in the 1930s, but the European experience carries a warning: Beware of politicians offering easy fixes. Rousing speeches are no guarantee of a better future.
Medicaid expansion is coming to Virginia after the state’s legislature approved a bill Wednesday that would provide health coverage to as many as 400,000 low-income residents of the Old Dominion. The majority-GOP General Assembly passed the measure with the votes of all Democratic legislators along with a minority of Republican lawmakers, bringing to a close the six-year debate over whether Virginia should accept funding from the Affordable Care Act to expand Medicaid. Gov. Ralph Northam (D), who campaigned in favor of Medicaid expansion last year, will sign the legislation. “This budget is the culmination of five years of effort to bring our taxpayer dollars home from Washington and expand Medicaid. As a doctor, I’m so proud of the significant step we’ve taken together to help Virginians get quality, affordable care,” Northam said in a news release. Isabella Carapella/HuffPost The Affordable Care Act calls for the program’s benefits to be available to anyone earning up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level, or about $16,000 for a single person. Under the law, the federal government provides at least 90 percent of the funding for the expansion. The Virginia legislation covers the state’s share of the expenses via an assessment on hospitals. The bill also reduces state spending on other programs that provide health care to uninsured people. “It’s a historic day. Senate Democrats have been fighting for Medicaid expansion for years,” state Senate Minority Leader Richard Saslaw (D) said at a news conference following Senate passage of the legislation Wednesday. As written, the Affordable Care Act would have expanded Medicaid nationwide in 2014. But the Supreme Court ruled in 2012 that states could refuse to enact it. To date, 18 states ― including Virginia ― had not implemented the policy, leaving 4.5 million people uninsured, according to an analysis published by the Urban Institute this month. Virginia legislators had been at an impasse over the Medicaid expansion since the Supreme Court ruling. Former Gov. Robert McDonnell (R) opposed it, while former Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) supported it but was unable to persuade lawmakers to go along. The political dynamics changed when Democrats made significant gains in last year’s House of Delegates elections. Although Republicans retain majorities in both chambers of the General Assembly, the election results left them with just a one-vote margin in the House, the same they had in the Senate. “Elections matter. Elections have consequences,” Virginia Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax (D) said at the Senate news conference. The entire Virginia House of Delegates and state Senate are up for election in 2019. Although Democrats are poised to succeed in their quest to expand health coverage through Medicaid in Virginia, there is a notable trade-off. The Medicaid expansion legislation also imposes work requirements on some enrollees, which is likely to result in fewer people gaining and keeping Medicaid benefits. President Donald Trump’s administration announced this year that it would permit work requirements for the program for the first time in history.
Roxanne Jones, a founding editor of ESPN Magazine and former vice president at ESPN, has worked as a producer, reporter and editor at the New York Daily News and The Philadelphia Inquirer. Jones is co-author of "Say it Loud: An Illustrated History of the Black Athlete." She talks politics, sports and culture weekly on Philadelphia's Praise 107.9 FM. The views expressed here are solely hers. (CNN) The NFL excels at many things: marketing, entertainment, making money. Their business model is an American success story built on the backs of the men, most of them black, who have and still do play the game. Sound familiar? And without exception, what the league does best is contain and control its overwhelmingly black players' workforce (70%) and at nearly every turn erase the humanity, identity, culture and even the full citizenship of those men. The browner -- and richer -- the league has become, the more steadfast team owners have been to limit the power and influence of their workers on the field, and off. This week, NFL owners walked into their annual meeting focused on quelling a player rebellion, ignited two years ago when one player, Colin Kaepernick, sat down during the National Anthem (he kneeled in later games) in silent protest of police brutality. Then, other players knelt, joined in the call for justice. They began sharing their own experiences with police brutality. And across the nation, the countless police killings of unarmed black and brown children, women and men continued. "I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color. To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way," Kaepernick told NFL Media's Steve Wyche in 2016, adding that even if he lost endorsements or lost his career as a player, "I know that I stood up for what is right." Kneeling will now be banned for any players on the field during the anthem. Even Jets owner Christopher Johnson, who has said he will pay the fines for any player sanctioned for protesting by kneeling, voted for the policy. Kaepernick has been blacklisted from the game. In the NFL, player rebellions will not be tolerated. The ruling is the latest example of how fearful the league is of players having a voice or thought that resonates beyond the playbook. The league forces players use their bodies and their famous faces to market products and services that make money for the game, from footwear to food and a host of other items. The league even identifies and controls acceptable social causes for players to support, such as breast cancer prevention, and how they can show that support But under no circumstances will these black men, these famous faces, be permitted to show compassion for their fellow citizens, to speak out against inequality in America. The message is clear: there is no room for unsponsored social justice causes in the NFL. As a young NFL editor for ESPN, I attended a few owners meetings. They were then, as now, a powerful group of mostly extremely conservative white men. And though reporters are allowed to attend some parts of the meetings, I remember how my colleagues all tiptoed around and used whispered tones when those powerful men walked by. They were no rule breakers when reporters were allowed to ask questions. When I got bored and decided to relax by the resort pool area, I was asked by my peers not to talk to any of the owners' wives because I might get us all kicked out of the meeting. Everyone fell in line. And not much has changed today. Among the 32 NFL teams , two have owners of color. None of the team owners are black. During the mid-1800s, as the slave population outnumbered the white population in many states, slave rebellion was a constant fear for slaveowners , who worried that revolts would destroy the lucrative plantation economy. Some owners mandated harsh rules and extreme cruelty to keep slaves living in fear, too afraid to protest their conditions. Others, treated their human captives with a little more leniency, even gave them a few privileges, believing the slaves would be loyal to them and not revolt. Today, with billions of dollars on the line for team owners, it's difficult not to see parallels between the fear of revolt in the 19th century and the racial dynamics in the NFL. The average NFL player makes over a million dollars, a far cry from enslavement of old, but that same fear of black men in revolt lurks in those who maligned and raged against Kaepernick's silent protest -- from NFL owners and fans to corporate sponsors and President Trump. It's present in all those who somehow saw a few football players kneeling on the ground as a threat to our democracy. The NFL uses tried-and-true tactics to control its workforce and maintain order: it limits who gets the most powerful positions. There are currently eight black head coaches in the NFL, thanks in part of a diversity mandate called the Rooney Rule Still, a recent study of racial makeup of NFL teams shows how players are steered toward specific positions by race. Player positions on the field are segregated by race, generally with black players steered toward the most physically dangerous, athletically demanding positions on the field: running backs, cornerbacks, linebackers; while less physically dangerous positions such as quarterbacks, kickers, long snappers are overwhelmingly held by white players. One study , funded jointly by the NFL and the players' association, found that offensive and defensive linemen, who (with the exception of centers and guards) are also predominantly black , are at greatest risk for CTE. And while we've seen more black quarterbacks in the game in the past 15 years, there is still resistance to putting a brown face in the most prized position on the field -- as Louisville star Lamar Jackson found recently when one NFL general manager insisted he switch positions from quarterback to wide receiver if he wanted to be drafted, a tactic that has historically been used to keeps blacks out of the quarterback spot. Through the years, I've also watched end zone celebrations as innocent as pulling out a Sharpie, or doing the latest dance move become politicized, criminalized and fined. There was a time while I was at ESPN that players' hand movements and facial expressions were scrutinized in every broadcast, every photo -- to make sure no gang signs were being flashed. I was often called on in these meetings to weigh in -- just in case my debutante training as a young girl somehow made me a gang expert. The NFL even hired "gang sign experts" to search the sidelines at games to check the black and brown players for covert gang signals and refer any suspected incidents to league security and executives to take further action. Ridiculous really, a room full of white men, who had never ventured too far outside of their upscale lives, checking for gang signs. For his part, Kaepernick has been silent on the kneeling ban, only retweeting a quote on the day of the ruling: "Being inside of a system doesn't necessarily change it, more often than not, you become absorbed in it until the system that you sought to reform, reforms you." Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Truth. Standing or kneeling, I'm hoping NFL players will not be threatened into silence in the fight for justice in this nation. I'm hoping players know that they have always been bigger than the game.
Policies that give fathers the right to stay home with their new babies aren't enough for them to actually take leave if they work in a male-dominated profession, according to a new study comparing Quebec and Finnish dads. Researchers at the University of Eastern Finland and Université Téluq in Montreal analyzed 38 interviews with current and former male lawyers in Montreal and Helsinki, Finland. They found that Canadian male lawyers were significantly less likely to take paternity leave than their Finnish counterparts, which they hypothesized could be explained by Finland's more established policy, as well as organizational differences in law firms, according to a news release. Canadian male lawyers were more likely to use vacation time instead of paternity leave when their child was born, the release explained. Quebec has offered a five-week non-transferable leave for fathers since 2006, and Finland has offered dads the right to paternity leave since 1978. In 2013, Finland extended its paternity leave time to nine weeks. "It is not enough that men's right to parental leave is guaranteed by legislation. We also need organisational solutions, collegial encouragement and examples set by male law firm partners," researcher Marta Choroszewicz from the University of Eastern Finland said. "In law firms, family policies and flexible working arrangements are mainly targeted at women, and this has a negative impact on women's career development. If fathers took a more active role in child care, it would facilitate the emergence of a professional culture that is more family-friendly. In the process, it is also likely that this would reduce gender bias in the division of legal tasks and career paths within law firms." The study, which was published in April in the International Journal of the Legal Profession, also noted that young lawyers in Finland tend to work as part of a team, whereas a Canadian lawyers' work tends to be more focused on the individual and faces higher expectations. In 2017, the Canadian government updated its parental leave policies to allow parents to take up to 18 months off work, a move aimed to encourage more dads to take leave, according to the Globe and Mail. And in February, the government announced a new "use it or lose it" proposal that would offer an additional five or eight weeks to two-parent families, conditional on two parties sharing the parenting responsibilities. In Canada, only one in 10 eligible fathers claim paternity leave benefits, according to Maclean's magazine, and those who did only took an average of 13 weeks off work. Fathers who take on caregiving roles face more workplace harassment and mistreatment than "traditional" fathers and men without children, according to research from the University of Toronto's Rotman School of Management. Also on HuffPost:
Tehran, Iran (CNN) Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a British-Iranian woman imprisoned in Tehran, will face a trial for new "security-related" charges, Iranian media reports. The 39-year-old was arrested in 2016 and is already serving a five-year sentence for allegedly spying against the Iranian regime. Earlier this month Zaghari-Ratcliffe appeared in court to face new charges of "spreading propaganda ," her husband said. Richard Ratcliffe and Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe. "She was told by Judge (Abolghassem) Salavati to expect that she will be convicted," husband Richard Ratcliffe said. Ratcliffe has consistently denied the allegations against his wife. When asked about the new charges, the UK Foreign Office said, "We will continue to approach each case in a way that we judge is most likely to secure the outcome we all want. Therefore, we will not be providing a running commentary on every twist and turn." Read More
To recap: Russia-watchers received a fresh shock on Tuesday night, when they saw reports that Russian journalist and Kremlin critic Arkady Babchenko had been gunned down in an apparent contract killing. Ukrainian police reported that an unidentified gunman shot and killed him in the entryway to his apartment in Kiev, an apparent murder that bore the hallmarks of a contract hit, and appeared to be part of a wave of targeted killings in Ukraine directed at opponents of Moscow. "I would like to apologize for what you all had to go through ... because I've buried friends and colleagues many times, and I know it's a sickening-vomiting feeling when you have to bury your colleagues. You're sorry that they forced you to experience all this," he said. "But in another way, it was impossible." In Babchenko's telling, Ukrainian security services had saved his life. They informed him that a hit was ordered on him from Russia, and the money had already been transferred: $40,000 (something Babchenko ironically described as a respectable price on his head). Ukrainian officials said they had foiled a deadly plot, and that the person suspected of carrying out an attempted assassination attempt on Babchenko was in custody. But despite the surprise ending, the Ukrainians handed a public-relations gift to the Russian government. "That Babchenko is alive is the best news," Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Facebook. "Wish it was always like that. It's too bad that in other cases, the masquerade didn't quite come off." Zakharova said the Ukrainian story had been concocted for "propagandistic effect." Senior Russian lawmaker Konstantin Kosachev compared the Babchenko case to the Salisbury poisonings , something used "by hook or by crook to defame Russia." And that's likely a point that Russian officials will further amplify. Russia has vehemently denied any responsibility for the poisoning of the Skripals in Salisbury, much as it has denied backing separatists in Ukraine's Donbas region and meddling in the 2016 US presidential election. Earlier Wednesday, before Babchenko's surprise reappearance, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the West was using the case "to promote Russophobic views and to create an uncomfortable situation for our country in every possible way," state news agency TASS reported. That response -- accusing the West of stirring a campaign of Russophobia -- has been the default Russian response to everything from the Skripal case to the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 in eastern Ukraine in 2014. In each case, the Russian government issued furious denials and charged the West with creating "fake news" to blacken Russia's name. In the case of Babchenko, they can now claim that fake news is real. And others are questioning why the Ukrainians staged Babchenko's death. "We are relieved that Arkady Babchenko is alive," said Nina Ognianova, the Europe and Central Asia program coordinator for the Committee to Protect Journalists. "Ukrainian authorities must now disclose what necessitated the extreme measure of staging news of the Russian journalist's murder. CPJ is investigating this unprecedented situation and will have no further comment until we have more details." Babchenko is no stranger to controversy. Last year, he fled Russia, saying he was subject to a campaign of harassment "so personal, so scary," that he was forced to flee his native country. The main trigger for this wave of harassment? A Facebook post. In December 2016, a Russian plane carrying the Alexandrov Ensemble, a much-loved military choir, crashed into the Black Sea on the way to a performance for Russian troops at a base in Syria. Babchenko said he used the post -- in which he refused to express sympathy for the crash victims -- to remind readers that Russia was also backing the Syrian government in a brutal offensive against the city of Aleppo. Russians reacted angrily. Prominent lawmakers and state media vilified him, and Babchenko said he no longer felt safe in Russia "My home address has also been published on the Internet, together with an invitation 'to visit,'" Babchenko wrote. "I have received threats to me and my family by the thousand -- in my email inbox, on Facebook and by phone." Babchenko in many respects has had an extraordinary career. Before working as a journalist, he served as a conscript soldier in Russia's 1994-96 war against Chechen separatists. He then returned to military service as a contract soldier during a second war in Chechnya that began in 1999. That second conflict helped propel Russian President Vladimir Putin to the presidency. That conflict also propelled Babchenko's writing career: He published a memoir about his life as a young soldier, One Soldier's War But this case has raised serious questions for some about the impact of this hoax on the practice of journalism. "Babchenko is a journalist, not a policeman ... and part of our job is trust, whatever Trump and Putin say about fake news," said Andrei Soldatov, a Russian journalist and expert on intelligence services, on Twitter. "I'm glad he is alive, but he undermined even further the credibility of journalists and the media."
It's Not Over Yet: What Needs To Happen Next To Legalise Abortion In Ireland
(CNN) A human rights watch group is accusing Nicaraguan authorities of using excessive force, threats and torture against demonstrators since protests began in the country last month. In a preliminary report, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights says at least 76 people have been killed and 868 injured in anti-government protests. According to the Nicaraguan government, the death toll is 13. CNN has reached out to authorities for comment and has not yet received a response. The rights group, known as IACHR, is calling on Nicaraguan officials to ban the use of lethal force against protesters after it found evidence that police "used firearms, rubber bullet guns and tear gas indiscriminately to dissolve protests and demonstrations." "Potentially lethal force cannot be used to maintain or restore public order. Only the protection of life and physical integrity before imminent threats can be a legitimate objective to use such force," the IACHR said. Read More
(CNN) Behind the double-mastectomy scars that run across her bare chest, she had a story to tell. So late last April, Paulette Leaphart embarked on a 1,000-mile walk from her childhood hometown of Biloxi, Mississippi, to the halls of Congress in Washington. And she did it topless. The breast cancer survivor screamed for a cure and demanded better and more affordable health care. She wanted women without breasts to believe in their beauty and be proud of their strength. By showcasing and embracing her scars, she hoped to inspire others to do the same. Her journey was bold, visual, moving. It offered a hero to admire and, given Paulette's audacious decision to walk shirtless in the face of strangers, a rich spectacle to witness. It spoke to African-American women, who face the highest breast cancer mortality rate. It inspired legions of survivors. And it spoke to many who'd lost someone to the disease. It seemed a storyteller's dream. But reality would eventually intrude. Documentary filmmakers were first to seize on Paulette's potential -- after she approached a producer who was out on a shoot, lifted up her shirt and said her story needed to be told. A stunning trailer for "Scar Story," in which the film crew would follow her entire walk, was released in late October 2015. A Kickstarter campaign to help fund the film went up weeks before the walk began, attracting enthusiastic donors. Journalists flocked to Paulette, eager to tell her story. Even megastar Beyoncé took notice and featured Paulette in "Lemonade." I saw the trailer on Facebook and, like so many others, was hooked. In a world hungry for heroes, whose stories of inspiration bring us light amid darkness, Paulette seemed to feed that craving. After making a few calls and learning she was walking with her 8-year-old daughter, no less, I hopped in my car, picked up my amateur photographer stepson, and headed to North Carolina to walk with her. Some stories land on a journalist's plate like manna from heaven. They're perfect morsels you can't wait to share. Others arrive a mess of ingredients with no recipe to follow. This one started the first way and finished the other. After walking with Paulette for a full day, I left with more questions than answers. No matter how much I hated to admit it, aspects of her story simply didn't add up. And the more I kept digging, the more inconsistencies I found: about her past and her cancer treatment, about how much she was actually walking, even about her motivations. Part of me wanted to walk away -- from Paulette and the story. If even one woman's life was saved thanks to a conversation Paulette started, wasn't that enough? So what if our hero was flawed? But then I thought about the thousands of people following Paulette on Facebook, all the journalists who covered her journey and the online video viewed more than 20 million times. And I realized: This story wasn't just about Paulette. It's about our need to find -- and, for some of us, become -- heroes. It's about the unchecked storytelling and self-promotion that thrives on social media. It's about the disappointment we feel when reality jolts us awake from our reverie. In our desperation to believe in people, do we dole out passes too easily? Had we, in our collective enchantment with Paulette, all become blind? Shameka Fulston, left, and others join Paulette Leaphart for a community walk in Charlotte. Fulston planned to rejoin Paulette for the last 100 miles of her walk but left Charlotte feeling disenchanted. A vision from God I caught up with Paulette at a house outside Charlotte, North Carolina, where she and her daughter were staying. The grill was fired up, food filled the counters and the music was pumping. Paulette, who wore a T-shirt emblazoned with the words "Living beautifully," greeted me with a hug. "The walk has given me back everything the devil stole from me," she told those in the room, as they gathered to pray for her journey. The hostess said she opened her home because she'd lost her own sister to breast cancer. As her tears fell, she told Paulette, "That's why I wanted to take care of you." Dusk turned to night, and I kept my eye on the time. When we spoke by phone, Paulette had warned me she woke up at 4:30 each morning and walked 20 to 40 miles each day except weekends, which were for rest. She had to cover that sort of ground, she explained, if she wanted to meet her goal of reaching Washington by June 27, her 50th birthday. I'm in decent shape, but walking at least 20 miles on little sleep scared me. "Oh, we're not starting 'til 9 a.m. tomorrow," Paulette finally told me as the night wore on. A community walk was planned in downtown Charlotte. I breathed a sigh of relief. The next morning, the crowd was passionate but small -- about three dozen women, men and children. Many wore pink , and most had been touched by breast cancer. "Five years in October," said one woman. "Nine years cancer-free," said another, sporting a "Fight Like a Girl" T-shirt. "Mom died in 2004," said one man, who survived lymphoma himself. A woman who'd driven through the night to be here took off her shirt to reveal her own tangled scars. She'd seen Paulette in Atlanta and vowed to walk with her. After photos, videos and prayers, the walkers hit the pavement, weaving their way through downtown. "We need a cure! We need a cure!" they screamed, following Paulette's lead. "Breast cancer sucks! Breast cancer sucks!" They also sang hymns. "We will walk until we defeat this demon!" Paulette yelled. All the pain I felt from the day I was born had purpose, and I'm living that purpose. God said I'm going to use your chest. Paulette Leaphart It was Memorial Day, one month to the day since she started, and the streets were quiet. Occasional onlookers gawked, wondering what the commotion was about. I walked along taking notes and wondered myself: How effective was this small, 1-mile march, really? I was more interested in what would come next: the walk she was resuming with her daughter to reach Washington in less than a month. They had already covered 710 miles. They'd walked all but 100 of them, Paulette said. She said she often used cabs to carry her through dangerous parts of the journey. With most weekends off, that would mean they'd averaged more than 27 miles a day on foot. We got started around noon. I'd pictured us rambling through rolling hills of green. Paulette would be like Forrest Gump, I thought, gathering disciples as she strode through quaint towns. Paulette preferred a busier route and steered us toward US 29. In her mind it was safer, and only along highways could she and her message be seen. She carried no sign, insisting the scars told her story. To her 5,000 friends and thousands more followers on Facebook, Paulette was already a hero. They showered her with love and praise. "If I had 10,000 thousand tongues, I couldn't thank you enough," one person wrote the day after I walked with her. "I understand your fight! God is with you every step of the way." "I love you for what you are doing," wrote another. "You are so brave you are my WOMAN OF THE YEAR." "You are such a phenomenal woman," wrote a third. "I lost my mother to breast cancer but I know if she were alive, she would be walking with you -- the whole way. ... God bless you." Paulette has inspired women all over the world and said she has even saved lives. People who'd been considering suicide, she said, were motivated by her to go on. The global attention began two years earlier, when, over Labor Day weekend, she posted topless photos of herself on a beach in Mississippi. She had just emerged from eight months of depression after losing her breasts and being told she couldn't have reconstructive surgery because of a pre-existing blood-clotting disorder. She says she had a vision from God to go to Biloxi Beach, take off her shirt and be photographed. She said people surrounded her. A woman began to cry and then she did, too. Onlookers applauded. Paulette freed herself in that moment and, in posting photos on Facebook, did the same for others. She said a man wrote to thank her, saying that his wife, who'd lost her breasts years before, had finally bared her chest for him. She was chosen by God to be a vessel for his work, she said, and her photos were "liked" almost 300,000 times. It was God who woke her up one night in December 2013 to tell her she had breast cancer, which doctors later confirmed. And it was God who told her to go on this 1,000-mile topless walk. "All the pain I felt from the day I was born had purpose, and I'm living that purpose," she said. "God said I'm going to use your chest." Pushing her daughter in a weighed-down stroller, Paulette Leaphart winds her way out of downtown Charlotte to continue her journey toward Washington. The first signs Based on the expressions of the people we passed, not everyone saw the purpose. She joked that she must look like a bag lady to some. Others got what this was about and offered her cheers and hugs. A church group giving out toiletries to homeless people gathered her in a circle for prayers. Two women on bikes who'd seen her story rode up and passed her $20 bills. Paulette had said she only ate fruit when she walked. On this day, though, she ate fried chicken tenders from Popeyes and two hot dogs at Cook Out, a Southern fast-food chain. I wasn't judging her choices; I matched everything she ate and then some. But she didn't eat the apple I offered, and I never saw her eat a piece of fruit. It was one of those tiny, perhaps silly, observations I filed away. But aren't we all guilty of saying and doing different things, especially when it comes to diet? The heat had slowed her down. She said she was now aiming for 20 miles a day, news that came as a relief. It was late afternoon, though, and we hadn't even gone 10 miles. Sometimes her daughter trudged along with us. More often, she climbed into a stroller built for kids less than half her size. Bags spilled over the sides; one balanced across her lap. Several times the awkward contraption tumbled over when she was getting in or out. While picking up her scattered belongings -- an overstuffed wallet, sunscreen and bug spray, water bottles and her daughter's "Jesus Storybook Bible" -- Paulette told me she'd already lost her driver's license and passport. "How do you check into hotels?" I asked, knowing desk clerks always ask for ID. "Everyone knows who I am," she answered with a smile. I made another mental note. The highway we walked along grew busy. When Paulette's daughter was out of the stroller, I often caught myself holding my breath as cars whizzed by. In the hottest part of the day, she took breaks. Sometimes, she said, she and her daughter studied. Other times, they found a place to swim, catch a movie or visit a garden. On the day I walked with her, we went bowling. Paulette was on her phone often and obsessed with charging it wherever we stopped. She wasn't making calls as much as checking Facebook. She seemed consumed with monitoring likes, shares and comments. I asked if anyone on the Internet ever put her down. Only one, she said: a woman she didn't know who was spreading lies and had a criminal record. A woman she suspected was crazy and jealous. A woman she was determined to ignore. What about the documentary group who'd set out to follow her? What had happened to them? Paulette told me they'd made money off her story without her consent and left after just a few days, abandoning her and her daughter "like dogs on the side of the road." Paulette often described her undertaking as "a walk of faith" and said Jesus has always been with her. When she was a small child, she said, she was sexually, physically and emotionally abused. Her great-grandmother gave her a Bible. She said it was the first book she ever read. "She couldn't protect me, but she gave me something that would." After one particularly brutal beating, Paulette said, she promised God that if he let her live, she'd dedicate her life to taking care of children. She has eight; she said she gave birth to four and adopted four others. Over the years, she said, she's fostered hundreds more. Her older kids were caring for her teens during the walk, she said. Her youngest, whom she said she home schools, refused to be left behind. When Paulette was at her lowest point fighting cancer, she said, her daughter pushed her to battle on. "There were days I wanted to stop breathing. She'd climb up into my bed and love all over me. She'd say, 'Mama, promise me you're going to beat cancer.' I promised her and I kept it." The highway we walked along grew busy. When Paulette's daughter was out of the stroller, I often caught myself holding my breath as cars whizzed by. When the shoulder narrowed, Paulette simply walked on the road. "I force them to respect me." Fear, she insisted, was nothing more than the devil. She said God would protect her and her daughter. I hoped God would also remember me. Salvation came for us in the form of a flat stroller tire. The weighed down contraption now moved like lead. Paulette had asked for help pushing it throughout the day, and I was happy to oblige in spurts. But now, unless she could fix it, this day looked done. An auto shop tried to help but couldn't. A taxi ride took us to the other side of an interstate. I left her at Cook Out and took an Uber back to my car. She planned to wait with her daughter for a ride back to the house where she'd been staying. She had miles to make up, she said, and needed to get to Walmart to buy a new stroller so she could pick up where she left off first thing in the morning. Our day ended as the sun began to set. We'd logged less than 14 miles. The "Scar Story" trailer was widely shared on social media and gained the attention of journalists, as well as Beyoncé, who featured Paulette in "Lemonade." Paulette's financial woes As more local, national and international reporters told Paulette's story, my reservations mounted. One local TV reporter wrote online that Beyoncé had walked with Paulette, though it was later trimmed from the piece. Another referred to her as a social worker, a career that, up until this point, she hadn't mentioned to me. When I'd asked Paulette what kind of work she'd done, she only mentioned owning a successful day care center in Virginia -- which, she said, she'd sold years before for a profit. She became homeless, she said, when medical expenses mounted from two years of cancer treatment. She had to choose between having a roof over her head or fighting to get well. I wondered how many of these journalists actually spent a full day with her; besides the filmmakers, Paulette had told me I was the first. Was I a horrible person for not buying her story wholesale? I know we're all vulnerable in this time of Internet hoaxes and fake news. Remember the recent story of a Santa Claus in Tennessee who claimed an ailing 5-year-old boy died in his arms? The world went nuts over this tearjerker, the story went viral, and none of it was publicly corroborated by anyone other than Santa. I got teary-eyed when I saw Santa's story, and when I first learned about Paulette's I was similarly taken. It's who I am as a person; I want to believe. But as a journalist my job is to ask questions and pull on those loose threads of doubt. So I enlisted a CNN researcher to pull up a background report on Paulette. That's when her story began to unravel. She found a way for people to feel sorry for her, a way to collect money and notoriety. Barbara Smith, who won part of a $100,000 judgment against Paulette It turns out her financial struggles long predated cancer. Years before Paulette said God woke her up to say she had breast cancer, there'd been more than a half dozen civil judgments and liens against her totaling well over $100,000. She'd filed for bankruptcy, owed the IRS about $45,000 and had faced multiple evictions. The bulk of the civil judgments stemmed from the Virginia day care center, which Paulette had owned for less than two years. I spoke to Barbara Smith, who said she and a friend were bilked out of more than $60,000 after Paulette persuaded them to invest in the day care center and become her partners. They agreed that Smith and the friend, who knew Paulette from church, would later take over the business from Paulette, which she had valued at $200,000. But she'd been dishonest about the state of her day care center, was in the hole and hadn't even been paying rent on the building, Smith said. The pair lost everything they gave Paulette. "We were investing in something that wasn't even there," said Smith, who admitted they were too trusting. "She just kind of shrugged it off as if we knew what we were getting into." Court documents show that Paulette had defaulted on her lease and had "fraudulently represented" the worth of her business. Paulette "declined to cooperate with her counsel and failed to appear for trial," the court order read. The plaintiffs were awarded more than $100,000, but they "never saw a red cent," Smith said. Paulette filed for bankruptcy a few days later. When media reports about Paulette's 1,000-mile walk began appearing, Smith said she and her friend were only temporarily surprised. Knowing her the way they did, this was just another "newfangled idea of how to get money," Smith said. "She found a way for people to feel sorry for her, a way to collect money and notoriety." Paulette Leaphart captured the attention of young documentary filmmakers when she approached a producer, lifted up her shirt and said her story needed to be told. A day with Beyoncé It became clear, as I ambled along with her, that Paulette possessed an inflated sense of her fame. She told me she imagined having her own reality TV show and a movie deal by the time her walk was over. She envisioned a career doing motivational speaking across the globe. She spoke about Beyoncé as if they were friends and said the star had spent a whole day alone with her on the set of "Lemonade." She said Beyoncé wanted her daughter, Blue Ivy, to look up to women like her. She said Beyoncé had promised to walk with her for a mile. I reached out a number of times to Beyoncé's publicist to ask about their relationship but never got a response. Paulette predicted that by the time she arrived in Washington, thousands of women would join her. She said she'd been invited to walk in places as far-flung as Kenya and Jamaica and that she was a hero in Israel. These seemingly over-the-top statements only made me question her further. I knew she was struggling, and I worried about her. ... Part of me wanted to close the book on this story, leave it unwritten and move on. I followed her daily on Facebook to see where she was and what she'd do or say next. Five days after I left her, she posted a picture of the stroller with the flat tire. The next day she posted a picture I'd seen her take with a man outside Charlotte. She was supposed to be nearing Durham at this point, around 150 miles away from where we said goodbye, and I couldn't help but wonder why she was still sharing shots from nearly a week earlier. I learned that she stayed in the house where I met her for five nights total -- two after we parted ways. After that, she seemed to take as many days off as she walked. She visited with relatives and girlfriends and frolicked on a beach. She fell sick and rested. She phoned to tell me about circulation problems in her feet and cried about being bullied online. She put her walk on hold to travel up to Washington to attend The United State of Women Summit, hosted by first lady Michelle Obama and Oprah Winfrey, but didn't stay. The next day she posted photos of herself in a hospital bed, saying she was dehydrated. I knew she was struggling, and I worried about her. I suspected the attention had derailed her initial mission, that she'd gotten in deeper than she could handle. I wondered if she was surrounded by people who no longer cared about her best interests. I feared there might be something bigger going on with her, that she might have other issues. Part of me wanted to close the book on this story, leave it unwritten and move on. Her journey now felt tragic and sad. What purpose would outing her discrepancies serve? But I kept reminding myself Paulette put herself in the spotlight. Millions of people subscribed to her story, including plenty of journalists. Beyond notoriety, what else was she after? How was she affecting others? Maybe there was something to gain from digging deeper -- for all of us. The trailer for "Scar Story," a proposed documentary about Paulette Leaphart's 1,000-mile walk, was filmed in New Orleans, where Paulette lives. Looking for direction Part of what kept me going was what I learned about the documentary. The filmmakers told me they'd spent seven months preparing for this venture. They said Paulette had signed off on the trailer and Kickstarter page and had been told time and again that the film crew's intention was to simply document her journey. They thought they'd made it clear to Paulette that she would be responsible for her personal arrangements, logistics, support system and finances. As the departure date approached, they said, they kept checking to make sure her plans were on schedule. Paulette assured them she was ready. The day they set out, the filmmakers learned that her plan was to lean on them. Director Emily MacKenzie said Paulette turned to her and asked, "Which way should I go?" "My heart sank," MacKenzie told me. "In that moment when she said that, I felt betrayed and deeply worried." Paulette also insisted on bringing her daughter. The filmmakers had expressed concerns about this in earlier conversations. How would Paulette walk and care for her at the same time? She insisted she could handle it. They agreed to help out in small ways; they'd gladly walk Paulette's daughter to the bathroom or make her a sandwich. But once the walk began, they said, Paulette wanted them to take on far more responsibility for her daughter than they'd discussed or agreed to -- and when they resisted, she grew furious. They had a film to make and couldn't be liable for the welfare of a child, they told her. I am sad to report that while we were with her on the road, the environment became hostile and unsafe for my team. Filmmaker Emily MacKenzie Everything about the walk now made them nervous. Paulette got horrible blisters, even though she said she'd been training for more than a year. (Her explanation, on Facebook, was that she'd only trained on flat ground.) They spent three days with her -- covering 17, 11 and 9 miles -- and all signs pointed to disaster. Paulette blamed them for not being prepared. They'd put their lives on hold for a year for this project and were crushed, but felt they had no choice but to walk away. They worried about Paulette and her daughter, though. They said they offered to drive them home to New Orleans, where Paulette lives, or at least take her daughter to relatives. They were in contact with one of Paulette's cousins, who was also concerned. They only left when they were assured loved ones were on the way. Soon after their paths diverged, they said, Paulette's mileage seemed to quadruple. One day she boasted online about a full day of walking that, given the distance between her self-reported starting and stopping points, would have amounted to about 65 miles. Finally, in June, MacKenzie posted a letter on the film's website on behalf of the team, telling supporters why the film's focus had changed to feature other women. She chose her words carefully. "I am sad to report that while we were with her on the road, the environment became hostile and unsafe for my team. We realized the distressing truth that the terms under which we had agreed to film the documentary were false and that we would be in a compromised and legally liable position to stay on the road any longer. In good conscience, I could not keep my crew on the road. Hence, we are not filming further with Paulette." The attacks from Paulette's supporters were almost immediate. You're going to be arrested for this. God knows what you did! How could you leave a homeless woman? Someone reached out wondering how they could organize to buy Paulette a house. The filmmakers could only shake their heads. They'd been in Paulette's home. They knew she wasn't homeless. When Paulette saw the letter she immediately threatened legal action, saying her lawyer would be in touch. The filmmakers never heard from an attorney. A frequent presence on Facebook, Paulette Leaphart is a big fan of selfies. She posts glamour shots of herself frequently. The A Team At a certain point, beyond fact-checking Paulette's background, I knew I had to look into her online critics. That's when I learned about three women who call themselves The A Team. At the helm is Kimberly McCarty, Paulette's chief adversary, the woman Paulette said was spreading lies about her. Paulette initially said she didn't know McCarty. But McCarty said she and Paulette connected via Facebook five years ago, before Paulette's diagnosis. McCarty said Paulette insisted on taking her out for a nice birthday dinner, only to have forgotten her credit card. McCarty said she was forced to foot the bill for them both. McCarty said Paulette told her a movie was being made about her based on a book she'd written and that R&B artist Fantasia was doing the soundtrack. When Paulette later revealed her breast cancer on Facebook, McCarty didn't buy it. Paulette later admitted she'd met McCarty once, but she likes to point out that McCarty has a criminal record and can't be trusted. It's true: McCarty has been convicted of theft, forgery and false pretense -- which could certainly make her a questionable source and made me reticent about reaching out to her at all. But McCarty owns her past and doesn't deny making mistakes. McCarty has been on an obsessive mission to cast Paulette as a fraud. She has gone so far as to say Paulette never even had cancer, that her double mastectomy was elective after she tested positive for the BRCA gene (think Angelina Jolie's preventive surgery). McCarty insisted her fight is less about Paulette and more about honoring those like her father who've battled cancer, and the friends she's lost to the disease. But McCarty, and some of the people who chime in on her posts, can be downright cruel. They have called Paulette names, mocked her appearance, poked fun at her weight. Whether or not McCarty can be trusted, her claims were enough to force me to hit pause. I needed to know, with certainty, that Paulette actually had cancer. Mixed in with selfies, Paulette Leaphart often added shots of herself in hospital beds or otherwise struggling. She asked for prayers and got them by the hundreds. 15 pages of medical records Paulette, at first, welcomed the chance to clear this up. With me on the line, she called one of her doctors and requested that her medical records be faxed to her. What she didn't tell the receptionist was that she was giving them my fax number. And that's how I learned that Paulette did, in fact, have a 0.7 cm cancerous tumor in her right breast, and that one of six sentinel lymph nodes removed from her right side also tested positive for cancer. Sometimes, though, when Paulette shares her story, she talks about cancer in her left breast. The left breast was benign, the pathology report shows. She also has talked about her cancer metastasizing to other organs in her body. To be clear, this could have happened; we don't have all of Paulette's medical records, just those that were faxed to me. Still, I was confused. I asked Paulette for permission to talk to her doctor so I could get a better understanding of her disease and treatment. Whenever I asked for details about radiation, chemotherapy and medications, the information she shared was often vague. She said she requested that her oncologist talk to me, but when I called his office I was told she'd made no such request and the doctor couldn't speak. When I told her this, she never followed up. So instead I enlisted a surgeon who specializes in breast surgical oncology to interpret the 15 pages of medical records I had. What I do know, based on the records I've seen, is that Paulette had breast cancer in her right breast. Claims that she did not have cancer are lies. Paulette's 0.7 cm tumor is considered "very, very small," according to the surgeon, who did not want to be named. A "re-excision," after an initial lumpectomy, could have gotten the slight margin of cancer cells left behind, the surgeon said. Instead, Paulette opted for a double mastectomy. Paulette said she has a family history of cancer, so such an aggressive approach can be understood, the surgeon said. Because one of the six lymph nodes removed tested positive, she had what doctors describe as stage 2a cancer. Based on what the surgeon saw, she couldn't say whether chemotherapy or radiation would have been necessary. It should also be noted there is no definitive course of treatment for breast cancer. It's a deeply personal decision a woman makes with her doctor. Perhaps Paulette had radiation and chemotherapy, as she told me and said on Facebook. But the records I received did not confirm this, and without talking to her oncologist -- something I needed her help to do -- I can't say with certainty that she did. And I certainly can't say I've seen all her medical records. What I do know, based on the records I've seen, is that Paulette had breast cancer in her right breast. Claims that she did not have cancer are lies. But exactly how her treatment played out beyond the double mastectomy remains unclear, as do details about how her cancer evolved. Members of The A Team have pulled together presentations , outlining frequent contradictions in Paulette's story. They have saved every post she's made on Facebook over the past several years and allow her to argue their case for them. Why was she bald before she started chemotherapy? How does she explain recycling identical photos to describe different doctor appointments? What happened to the cancer she once said was in her liver? How could she say pneumonia cleared her lungs of tumors? How did she walk 5 miles each way to doctor's appointments when she claimed to be so sick? Katrina Adams is another member of The A Team. Her sympathy initially went out to Paulette. She followed her on Facebook and told her she was praying for her. But then she started seeing posts that left her baffled. One day Paulette would be languishing in a hospital bed, and the next she'd be out shopping with her children. Then Adams' own mother-in-law was diagnosed with cancer, and Adams saw how chemo ravaged her body. How could Paulette be so active? She started watching more closely, found McCarty along the way and realized she wasn't alone in having doubts. "I let it go for a while," Adams said. "But then this walk came along and it sent me over the edge." Using a Facebook pseudonym, "Marwin Jones," Adams also chronicled Paulette's posts and shared her outrage. "How can you have heart & liver surgery, pneumonia, train to walk from MS to D.C., home school your children and move six times, all while battling stage 2 aggressive breast cancer that 'in your words' Spread to your liver and lungs. Not to mention, you took 'breaks' from the cancer treatment to travel for leisure," she posted in July. "Who does that? This alone is enough to look at you with the 'side eye.' " Paulette Leaphart has been treated as a hero by many. She imagined having a reality TV show and movie deal by the end of her walk. From help to hesitation Beyond The A Team, there were others who initially supported Paulette and now have nothing to do with her. Among them were a seasoned public relations professional, a Washington insider with connections to a breast cancer foundation, and a best-selling erotic-fiction author and publisher known as Zane. An old trusted friend encouraged Zane to sit down with Paulette. Zane was happy to meet her and offer help, but it didn't take long for Zane to grow suspicious. As she described it, she saw the story change in the course of a day: One minute Paulette complained about how much she was paying for cancer medications, but when Zane proposed a way to get medications donated, Paulette said she was on disability and everything was covered, Zane said. When Paulette told her she owed doctors $200,000, someone Zane knew offered Paulette that money on the condition it go directly to the doctors. Paulette passed on the offer, Zane said, saying she'd prefer to declare bankruptcy after the walk. Another friend of Zane's, with Marriott connections, reached out to Paulette to offer booklets of hotel vouchers so she could stay in rooms free during her walk. Paulette never responded. Despite all this, Zane said, she has no animosity for Paulette. "It was just one of those things that once I became apprehensive I didn't want to be involved," she said. "At the end of the day, I wish her well. I just couldn't be caught up in it." She made valid points a blind man could see. Carmen Lawrence, after reading Facebook posts critical of Paulette One woman who did get caught up in it was Carmen Lawrence from Cleveland, who said she had been Facebook friends with Paulette for a few years. She'd followed her battle with cancer, pneumonia and other ailments. And when Paulette embarked on this ambitious walk, Lawrence wanted to help. Lawrence told me she took up a collection at work for Paulette. Although Paulette has a GoFundMe page for donations, which has raised $8,640 toward a goal of $100,000, she suggested Lawrence wire her money directly. Lawrence did. She sent Paulette "well over $800," she said. But Lawrence grew wary. She didn't understand why Paulette was posting only parts of her walk. And when Paulette posted about being stalked by McCarty, Lawrence couldn't help but peek at McCarty's page. "She made valid points a blind man could see," Lawrence said. She reached out to Paulette to ask questions. How did she know McCarty? Why wasn't her walk recorded? Did she have cancer? "I was blocked in minutes" from her Facebook page, Lawrence said. In that moment, any trust she had in Paulette was lost. "I was so into her story," Lawrence said. "She hung herself." Paulette Leaphart was diagnosed with breast cancer in January 2014 but was unable to have reconstructive surgery because of a blood-clotting disorder. Family matters Part of Paulette's story centers on when her cancer struck -- seven months after a first cousin, Monique McDonald, died of breast cancer. Paulette often said she moved to Mississippi in 2013 to care for Monique and her four daughters. I heard Paulette tell a crowd she was the only one who could set her cousin free; that Monique needed Paulette to tell her it was safe to let go and be with God, and only then did she peacefully pass. But Monique's mother and oldest child aren't having it. As a little girl, Ashia McDonald, 22, was mesmerized by Paulette. She was the relative who got out of Biloxi, lived a glamorous life and seemed to have it all. When her mom got really sick, she said, Paulette began calling every day, promising she'd send money and come help. She showed up the day Monique died, Ashia said, and told relatives she'd been evicted from her home. Rather than arrive to help, Ashia said, Paulette was the one who needed help. Court documents confirm that Paulette failed to pay rent on a Lithia, Florida, home in May 2013. Her landlord threatened legal action in mid-May before filing for an eviction. Monique died on June 1. The family later learned Paulette had gone to area churches asking for donations for Monique's children, saying she was caring for them, Ashia said. Other than the $50 dorm fee Paulette offered when Ashia went to college that fall, she said she and her sisters -- who were in the custody of their grandmother, Brenda McDonald -- never saw this financial help. "It tears me up because that's my sister's child," said McDonald, 59. She quit her job to care for her grandchildren, and she cries over the phone when she talks about Paulette. "She took advantage of my grandkids. She took from them. She took their mother's death and ran with it." Ashia thinks back to her mother's packed funeral and remembers being struck by Paulette's demeanor. As mourners grieved and comforted one another, Ashia noticed something else in Paulette. "She was so intrigued. ... There was no sympathy. There was no sadness. It was weird, like she wanted to be in my mother's shoes," Ashia said. "It had everything to do with the crowd and the love. ... I'm telling you, I knew she had something up her sleeve." Seven months after the funeral, Paulette was diagnosed with breast cancer. Sometimes my mom gives so much she gets hurt. Her intentions are always pure. Porsha Cummings, Paulette's oldest child Another of Paulette's cousins, Candy McDonald, 29, told me of her own anger with Paulette. She, too, always looked up to her "Auntie Paulette." But that ended after Candy said she signed a lease for Paulette, which she then skipped out on, hurting Candy's credit, she said. Candy also says Paulette stole her beloved Yorkie named Suge. Paulette has had three marriages. The first lasted 16 years; the second, four years; the third fell apart in about a week, according to the three men. Her first husband, David McKenzie, said Paulette was a stay-at-home mom who often provided day care out of their home, and he -- a military man -- was frequently away. He read a few articles about Paulette's journey and worried about her walking along highways with a child but applauded her effort to raise awareness about cancer. He can't help but laugh a little, though, when he thinks about her setting out to trek 1,000 miles. "I will say that it's out of her character to walk that far," he said. The Paulette he knew didn't exercise and "might walk down the street or around the block," he said. "But life changes, seasons change and people change." The second man she married, Craig Leaphart, was hesitant to talk. "I would say that her heart is in the right place and leave it at that," he said. He did add that she's had "serious health issues" and that "her mom had breast cancer." I asked how he felt about his daughter walking with Paulette. "I have no comment on that," he said, before hanging up. Her third husband, Sidney Williams, told me he'd met Paulette on an online dating site right before her double mastectomy. She told him about her cancer, and he fell for her. Months after the double mastectomy, she moved in with him in Seattle, he said. When she told him she had to go to MD Anderson in Houston for cancer treatment, he suggested she stay in Seattle, and he took her to a cancer center there to discuss treatment. He walked into the room just as a doctor was telling her there was no sign of cancer, he said. "She herded me out of the office at that point," he said. Williams interpreted this to mean she'd never had cancer and said, in that moment, he felt like he'd been "suckered." He said he couldn't believe a word she said anymore and told her the marriage was over. He was heartbroken and disappointed but relieved to get out early. She told me she left him after overhearing him say, while she was in the throes of her cancer battle, "I didn't marry her to watch her die." Williams said she stole his 2003 Jaguar and left the state. She told me she took his car, saying she drove it cross-country in spite of how sick she was. Williams said he never saw that car again. Paulette Leaphart carried no sign and insisted the scars across her chest told her story. She walked along busy roads, like US 29, saying this was how she could be best noticed. A daughter's defense Porsha Cummings takes the criticism of Paulette personally. Cummings, 31, is Paulette's oldest child. The Fort Worth, Texas, hairstylist and mother of three girls talks about a mom who has always given to and thought of others. "Sometimes my mom gives so much she gets hurt," Cummings said. "Her intentions are always pure." A daughter from a relationship before Paulette's first marriage, Cummings said she grew up a "military brat" in a family that always lived a "very affluent lifestyle." Her mother welcomed girls who'd aged out of the foster system. She ran a day care center out of their home and cut deals for parents who couldn't afford the care. She took in foster children and paid for their private-school educations. So when Paulette called Cummings and told her she had cancer and was struggling financially, Cummings wanted to take care of her mother. She said she told her mom to come to Texas so she and her fiancé could help. But Paulette wouldn't have it. "She wanted to put on a strong face for her children," Cummings remembered, and didn't want to burden anyone. Paulette didn't have insurance, Cummings said, and told her she had depleted her savings paying for chemo and other procedures, including $40,000 to remove her breasts. Cummings had been saving up for her wedding and insisted her mother take what she had. It crushed Cummings to think of her mom sleeping on an air mattress, facing outrageous medical bills and not having all she'd been accustomed to. And then to see people say she was never sick with cancer? That just incensed Paulette's daughter. "We know her story. We were there," Cummings said. "We're just happy she's surviving and that she's thriving in her survival. ... I'm proud to be her daughter." The trailer for a proposed documentary about Paulette Leaphart, which was later scrapped, showed her walking through her New Orleans neighborhood. Back with questions The next time I saw Paulette after I left her in Charlotte was in Washington. She had indeed reached the capital by June 27, her 50th birthday, crossing a bridge into the district on foot. A rally to welcome her was scheduled for a week later, after Congress was back in session. She was surprised to see me. Because I hadn't written about her yet, she said, "I thought you kicked me to the curb." Her words reminded me of the cold description she offered about the documentary filmmakers, who she said left her and her daughter "like dogs on the side of the road." I'd come back to Paulette because I still had questions. Outside a church, a crowd of maybe 50 people gathered. Certainly not the thousands she'd told me earlier would join her on her walk through D.C. Together, they would head to the Capitol for a rally. There were women who wept when they saw Paulette, some who'd driven hours to be by her side. They marveled at her, calling her the strongest woman alive. Local reporters popped by to meet her. They filmed and gushed. I watched a cameraman turn teary-eyed while she spoke. Several women took off their shirts to reveal their own scars, something they'd never done before. I walked with one woman, her chest discolored by radiation burns, who almost didn't make it here because of ongoing pain. Women thanked Paulette and cried in her arms. She'd inspired them. She understood them and was like them. She was their hero. We walked 5 miles that day. I weighed in with those walking and -- once again -- began to fear I was being too hard on Paulette. So what if she hadn't literally walked all 1,000 miles? She was still making a difference. Who was I to question this power she had? Clearly, she'd touched people who needed her. But then, as she'd done before, Paulette got in her own way. She has a knack for saying more than she should. If she walked and spoke of cancer, women's health, her faith, it would be sufficient. But she's prone to hyperbole that gets her in trouble. They did the same thing to Jesus. They're going to have to kill me to stop me. Paulette Leaphart Apropos of nothing we were discussing, she blurted out that "Harry called" and appeared shocked when I didn't immediately know who she was talking about. "You don't know Harry?" she said, eyebrows raised. It was Harry Connick Jr., I learned, and she said he wanted her on the premiere of his new show. When I followed up, a spokeswoman for the show told me a producer had been in touch with Paulette about her story but that she did not appear on the premiere, and was not scheduled to appear on any shows. I asked if Beyoncé ever showed up, and Paulette responded, "No, she's really busy." And then she added with a coy smile, "We're going to catch up later." I asked her about her work as a social worker, and she told me she single-handedly reformed the foster care system in the state of Virginia. When I said I'd love to learn more about the program she developed, she told me to Google it. I asked if the program had a name and she couldn't give me one. I tried to confirm Paulette's story by calling the director of social services in the city where Paulette said she worked; despite leaving a dozen messages, I never heard back. The director's assistant said she'd never heard of Paulette, despite starting there long before Paulette claims to have revolutionized the system. I wanted to know about Paulette's finances when cancer struck. She said she'd been bringing in less than $5,000 a month between child support and half of an ex-husband's retirement money. In one breath, Paulette would say she made too much to qualify for Medicaid; in another she'd talk about being homeless. I asked where she was when she lost everything, and she described giving up a house in Mississippi, as well as all her jewelry and her cars. "Cars?" I asked. She said she had three of them: two Mercedes and a Cadillac Escalade. I asked Paulette what she was raising the money for. Was it for a cause? Was it to help fund research to find a cure? She told me the money was only to cover her expenses. On Facebook she shared photos of people passing her money, including one in which a driver leaned across his passenger seat, waving a $100 bill. Her critics wondered if she's reporting any of the donations she's received -- whether online, by wire or in person -- and suggested people file complaints with the IRS. Paulette's supporters told me these critics were just "trying to snuff out her light," as one put it. Paulette insists on Facebook that she loves her haters. She thinks about their efforts to tear her down and also says this: "They did the same thing to Jesus. They're going to have to kill me to stop me." In some cities along the way, Paulette Leaphart was joined by others for community walks. This group in Charlotte sang hymns and chanted "We need a cure" and "Breast cancer sucks." Addressing the crowd She took the stage at a park near the Capitol like a rock star. "Survivor" by Destiny's Child blared through speakers, and she implored people to dance. A couple of women who'd driven in from eastern Pennsylvania sat on the sidelines, watching her in awe. "She radiates," said one. "I actually got to walk next to her!" gushed the other. Paulette spoke about God sending her directly to a surgeon to remove her breasts. Some women answered with amens; others appeared troubled. "I'm pretty sure you have to go to an oncologist before you go to the surgeon," a woman who'd lost one of her own breasts to cancer said to me later. This woman is a devout Catholic and doesn't doubt the power of God, but she said this part of Paulette's story sounded a little off to her. All day I'd scanned the crowd looking for Shameka Fulston. She was the woman who'd driven through the night from Atlanta to walk with Paulette in Charlotte and had bared her own scarred and breastless chest. She said back then she would walk the last 100 miles of Paulette's journey with her and join her in Washington, but she was nowhere to be seen. I'm sort of sad this walk is over. If I kept walking, I could have a new house by the end of the year! Paulette Leaphart to a crowd of supporters outside the US Capitol I later called Fulston to see what became of her. She said several things about Paulette gave her pause in Charlotte. For one, she said Paulette grew annoyed, even angry, when she found out Fulston could have gotten reconstructive surgery but chose not to. Paulette told me she had picked out size D breast implants before doctors said reconstructive surgery was too dangerous. Fulston didn't want reconstructive surgery because her body had already been through enough, she said. Now, the person who preached that women should embrace their scars was making Fulston feel judged for hers. Then, Fulston said, when she asked what Paulette planned to petition Congress about, Paulette had no clear answer. "I just don't like being a part of something that doesn't seem to have a lot of direction," Fulston said. Later, she was asked to fly up to Washington for a photo op with Paulette, Fulston said, and she balked. To travel for pictures seemed absurd and a waste of her time. She remains confused about what Paulette is fighting for. From a stage in the park outside the Capitol, Paulette looked out at her admirers. She said none of this walking was for the money. But then she boasted about the time she raised $1,200 in one day. "I'm sort of sad this walk is over," she told the crowd. "If I kept walking, I could have a new house by the end of the year!" Filmmakers spent seven months preparing to film Paulette Leaphart's walk, but they walked away after only a few days. Paulette says she was abandoned; the filmmakers tell a different story. Blocked on Facebook After the walk Paulette went back to New Orleans and posted pictures of herself sitting on plush leather seats behind the steering wheel of what appeared to be a new Mercedes SUV. Paulette later told me she'd be addressing a crowd of 40,000 people over Labor Day weekend. She gave me the name of the event -- I asked her to repeat it so I knew I had it right -- but I couldn't find any evidence of it ever existing. And on Labor Day weekend, this woman who consistently posted on Facebook multiple times a day said nothing about a speaking engagement. Paulette continued to say she wasn't out for fame and attention but kept sharing glamor shots and pictures from TV and film sets. She posted about her daughter now having an agent but did not respond when I texted to congratulate her and asked to learn more. She has since blocked me from her personal Facebook account. It's what she does when people ask questions, I've been told time and again. One woman, after noticing Paulette's posts about her newfound fame and attention, simply asked her how she was paying it forward. She, too, got blocked. In November, Paulette posted a video in which she talked about a CNN reporter who had been on "a witch hunt" for six months. She'd been warned that I was working on a story -- "a negative article," she said -- and shared what she felt after seeing me in Washington. "Her eyes were dark," she told her followers. "And I felt this spirit about her and it was very uncomfortable. ... My manager noticed something about her, too." (Her claims are) unfair to those women who truly endured those treatments to survive breast cancer. The exploitation ... has got to stop. Dr. Melanye Maclin, a Maryland dermatologist Not always beautiful Last fall, someone put me in touch with Dr. Melanye Maclin , a Maryland dermatologist who does research and has developed hair and skin care product lines. She has media and celebrity connections in the Washington area and says she was asked to help get Paulette publicity when she arrived in the nation's capital at the end of her walk. Maclin had been watching Paulette's journey and was intrigued, so it was easy enough for her to make a couple of quick calls. She invited Paulette to her home for lunch, where they discussed a campaign Maclin wanted to launch for her skincare line. It was to be called "Always Beautiful" and would be about capturing a person's inner beauty. Paulette seemed the "living example" of the message, and "Dr. Mac," as she's often called, imagined Paulette being the face of the campaign. A couple of friends, including a breast cancer surgeon, saw Maclin's enthusiasm about Paulette and told her to be cautious. But she, like so many others, wanted to believe. So did her friend Chantay Savage, a recording artist whose remake of Gloria Gaynor's "I Will Survive" went gold. Savage's mother died of breast cancer, and she recorded a song, "Always Beautiful," for Dr. Mac. The song was released on social media and featured Paulette in the video. The flood of negative remarks and accusations about Paulette was almost immediate. They took the doctor and Savage by surprise, and they yanked the video. They also began to look at what Paulette's critics were posting. In an email, Maclin reflected more on what she'd seen on Paulette's Facebook page and heard from Paulette directly. "She does not display hyperpigmentation from radiation or scars claimed from the multiple surgeries due to admitted liver and lung metastasis," Maclin wrote. The breast surgeon I'd enlisted to look at the limited medical records I had about Paulette agreed that the photos show no obvious sign of radiation or additional surgeries, but also reserved judgment, saying some people are less likely to scar. But there was more from Maclin, who added, "It was also bizarre that she told me that she did not do chemotherapy," contradicting the story she has told on social media. Her claims are "unfair to those women who truly endured those treatments to survive breast cancer," Maclin said. "The exploitation ... has got to stop." Paulette Leaphart's walk stirred up a media frenzy. Her image and story appeared in print, online and across screens around the globe. The media and the message One leader in breast cancer activism, who didn't want to be named, encouraged me to think about Paulette in a different way. Yes, she may be prone to exaggeration and not entirely believable, but if she touches one person, if she inspires one woman to get a mammogram, isn't that a win? And, this activist added, Paulette largely speaks to a population that deserves attention. Black women are less likely to receive breast cancer diagnoses at an early stage than are white women, are more likely to receive a diagnosis of triple-negative breast cancer (which means cancer cells don't have the receptors to respond to certain drugs and therapies) and have the lowest breast cancer survival rate of any ethnic or racial group, according to the American Cancer Society and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention The difference in mortality rates can be attributed to the stage of diagnosis, tumor characteristics and issues such as obesity. But it is also influenced by levels of education and access to treatment and health insurance, a comprehensive American Cancer Society report says. Furthermore, Paulette has tapped into an audience that shares her faith. If women are taking notice and paying more attention to their breasts because of her, that may be all that matters. The message may be more important than the messenger. There's no way to measure how much of a difference Paulette Leaphart made in shaping the conversation about cancer in this country. But then another activist, who also didn't want to be named, described Paulette as dangerous. This activist works with women with stage 4 metastatic cancer, women whose cancer has spread to other organs, usually the bones, brain, liver or lungs. Their survival rate is the lowest, and these women, this activist said, are facing the end. For a while, she followed Paulette's journey. Then, she said, she saw a Facebook post about a woman with stage 4 who Paulette said successfully prayed away her cancer. "That was it for me," said the activist, who then unfriended Paulette. "Does that mean my friends weren't worthy of being saved?" Others voiced concerns about her preying on people's emotions and their wallets while standing on a pedestal for a cause that seemed undefined. I wondered if other journalists had faced doubts and hurdles; I wanted to hear their experiences covering Paulette. One newspaper reporter, on condition of anonymity, admitted to having had some misgivings but was on a tight deadline and being pushed to publish. Another piece was put out by someone who, it turned out, wasn't a journalist and didn't have the tools or obligation to check Paulette's story. What mattered most in this case, I was told, was giving voice to the struggles she represented. Other journalists I contacted didn't want to comment at all. Upworthy, a website for viral content, reached out to Emily MacKenzie, the documentary filmmaker, to see if she could vouch for Paulette's story. MacKenzie said she told them that, in good conscience, she could not and advised the site against sharing any videos of Paulette. The site did anyway, and one video it posted in June got more than 20 million views, which only prompted other outlets to tell Paulette's story. I reached out to people at Upworthy, including the vice president who MacKenzie said she spoke to, more than half a dozen times. I said I wanted to learn about their vetting process and the decision to share videos about Paulette. I never got a response. Paulette Leaphart appeared on TV and film sets after her walk ended and posted selfies with Will Smith and Scott Bakula. Hollywood sets and setbacks Before she blocked me from seeing her Facebook page, I checked on her social media presence from time to time. The images were often a mixture of selfies and pictures of her posing, impeccably made up and modeling new clothes. She appeared on the sets of CBS' "NCIS: New Orleans" and the upcoming movie "Girls Trip," posting pictures with stars and mentioning names like Queen Latifah and Jada Pinkett Smith. She shared a shot with Scott Bakula on the "NCIS" set, and another with Will Smith, who was visiting the "Girls Trip" set. "Will Smith heard about my story and came over to shake my hand," she wrote. Other photos showed her home in bed, giving two thumbs up from a gurney in an ambulance and in a hospital room bed. She pleaded for prayers and talked about pain and setbacks. At one point she feared she had kidney cancer and asked people to pray for her. It turned out to be a kidney stone. She worried a lump under her arm was the return of breast cancer, and supporters overwhelmed her with more prayers. It was a cyst. One day she'd be listless under the covers; another she'd be dolled up in clothes she said were created specifically for her. She'd stand beside people she'd identify as her personal stylist, her fashion consultant, her makeup artist. We need this story. We need this woman before us. We need this woman and what she did on the tip of our tongues. Nikky Finney, poet and author At one point over the summer, she encouraged people to sign a petition for a proposed "cancer relief bill" written by a Michigan resident. But that push seemed sporadic. Since then, I've used other Facebook accounts to keep tabs on her posts. She's been the keynote speaker at a few events. She walked into turquoise waters while on a Caribbean cruise. She drove to Florida to receive, by her own account, $27,000 of dental work free of charge. In early October, she attended the espnW Women + Sports Summit in California. She was flown first class, put up in a posh resort and walked away with $400 in Adidas swag. She was also flown to ESPN's headquarters in December, where she was given the espnW Pegasus Award for Inspiration. An esteemed poet and author, Nikky Finney, took to the stage at the summit in California to share "Topless in America," an original and powerful piece she wrote in Paulette's honor. I reached out to Finney to see if she was aware of the questions swirling around Paulette's story. She didn't respond. On her website , Finney calls Paulette her "shero." She says she "stopped me in my tracks and reminded me of what a woman is truly made of: Iron & Lavender." "We need this story. We need this woman before us," Finney writes. "We need this woman and what she did on the tip of our tongues." As the heat rolled in late last spring, Paulette Leaphart began to slow down. She said she hoped to walk 20 miles a day, rather than the up to 40 miles a day that she said she'd walked previously. The 'real Paulette'? What Paulette did should be on the tips of our tongues, but not because she deserves praise, others say. Annette Johnson of Beaumont, Texas, has known Paulette for several decades. She knows some of Paulette's relatives and attended the same church when they were both living in Mississippi. Paulette reached out to Johnson in October 2013, months after Johnson was diagnosed with breast cancer and Paulette's cousin, Monique McDonald, had died. This was a few months before Paulette's own diagnosis. Johnson said Paulette wanted to hear all about what she was going through. "Then, all of a sudden, she came down with cancer," Johnson said. "And I was really sympathetic." But as time went on, Johnson began to notice something strange. She said Paulette's Facebook posts began to mirror a little too closely the experiences Johnson had shared in phone conversations with Paulette. Johnson rattled off her dietary and workout regimens, only to see Paulette post them as if they were her own. She told Paulette she lost her hair after the first chemo treatment, and all of a sudden, she said, Paulette had shaved her head. She mentioned how she wasn't able to get a chemo treatment when her white blood cell count was too high. The same thing happened to Paulette. Johnson told her that during a workup, doctors found a spot on her liver. Paulette's doctors found one, too. Johnson made an unusual request of her doctors: that she be allowed to keep her chemo port when it was taken out; it had been her "lifeline," she said. The next thing she knew, Paulette was boasting about keeping hers. "Can you not have an original thought of your own?" Johnson said she thought. To have your story pimped, played and punked by someone for their own selfish gain is a sin and a shame. Annette Johnson, a longtime acquaintance of Paulette And then there was this: She told Paulette she was marrying her long-lost love. Soon after, Johnson said, Paulette told her she was marrying her long-lost love, too. But Sidney Williams, Paulette's third husband and the supposed long-lost love, said the two had met online only months before. There were other things about Paulette's story that raised questions. When Johnson was in the throes of treatment, she felt good about herself if she could walk to the kitchen and back to bed. Yet here was Paulette driving cross-country in Williams' car. "You drove yourself back in the midst of treatment? I didn't drive for a year," Johnson remembered saying. "How did you do that?" "I just did it," she recalled Paulette answering. Paulette took pictures of herself in emergency waiting rooms just about every week, Johnson said. Other Facebook posts showed Paulette bouncing around, going on vacations, just as she was claiming to be broke and deathly ill. And she was taking repeated breaks from her treatment, which made no sense to Johnson. Johnson could no longer believe her. She'd opened up, shared her pain, thought she was confiding in and bolstering a fellow survivor. She felt like she'd been had, and was angry because she'd defended Paulette to others. "We share our stories to encourage another sister or brother who is going through the process. We open up and give our hearts," she said. "To have your story pimped, played and punked by someone for their own selfish gain is a sin and a shame." What Paulette has done "hurts me to the core," Johnson said. She said she wants the "real Paulette" to stand up. "I encourage her to tell her own story." Last July, after arriving in Washington, Paulette Leaphart set out to lobby Congress. Her message, however, wasn't entirely clear. The devil on her back I reached out to a psychologist after reading her blog post about the "psychology of hero worship." She told me everyone has access to 15 minutes -- and more -- of fame these days. To stand out, though, people have to "up the ante and up the storytelling." In the case of Paulette, I can't help but believe she upped that ante to her own detriment. On December 13, then-President Barack Obama signed the 21st Century Cures Act, a $6.3 billion bill that includes $4.8 billion for medical research for cancer and other diseases. Paulette took to Facebook Live to talk about the good news. She said her phone had been "blowing up" with messages. "I'm trying not to cry," she said. "But God said that there was going to be a cure, and he asked me to take that walk to talk to Congress and get their attention." I was there for the first two of her meetings on the Hill, along with an entourage of her children, some of her friends and fans, and a woman who says she is Paulette's manager. Paulette met with aides in both cases, though Democratic Rep. John Conyers of Michigan came in at the very end of her meeting in his office and posed with her and others for pictures. She later posted Facebook pictures with Rep. Donald M. Payne Jr., D-New Jersey, and Sen. Roger Wicker, a Mississippi Republican. Perhaps she grew more effective as her visits continued. But in the meetings I attended, Paulette didn't seem to understand that the people she was meeting with were on her side -- that they, too, want a cure for cancer and more affordable health care. Nor did she get how the legislative system works or which laws -- including the Affordable Care Act -- were already in place. She complained about insurance and pharmaceutical companies, talked about being a business owner for 20 years who then became homeless. She said she made $1 too much to qualify for food stamps. She said she had to pay $5,000 a month for her blood disorder treatments. I could only surmise that this was in addition to the $2,500 to $5,000 a month she often said she needed to pay for her cancer treatments. "You're preaching to the choir," an aide said. "This congressman shares your concerns." He explained to her how the system works, how there needs to be a certain number of votes to pass bills, how she needs to lobby in her own district to effect change. Paulette listened and demanded: "What's more important than human life?" This story wasn't just about Paulette. It's about our need to find -- and, for some of us, become -- heroes. There's no way to measure how much of a difference Paulette Leaphart made in shaping the conversation about cancer in this country. She touched many minds and hearts, but whether she did so in the most honest and transparent way remains questionable. The day after Christmas, she posted a new photo from a hospital bed. She complained of excruciating pain and revealed there was a new mass, this time next to her right ovary. My stomach dropped for her. She asked for prayers, and they came in by the hundreds. Then, in less than 24 hours, her longtime critic Kimberly McCarty shared an old post that questioned whether Paulette still had her ovaries. In the post, one of Paulette's daughters wrote that her mother's ovaries were being removed out of fear that the hormones produced by them were feeding her breast cancer. And, once again, I no longer knew what to believe or feel. Then came Facebook photos from Paulette. In one she was getting a vaginal ultrasound. In another, she was flashing the victory sign with her fingers and smiling as she was being pushed into an MRI machine. She posed next to the doctor who, she said, had just removed her ovaries. There was no cancer, she later reported. In the weeks before publishing this story, I set out to give Paulette a chance to address questions I still had and to respond to accusations made by others. I emailed her twice detailing my reporting and asking for answers about everything from her career and court judgments to her cancer and treatment. When I got no reply, I texted her and even had my editor send her a Facebook message. Then I called her. She indicated she had seen my questions and told me she didn't want to talk to me. Soon after my first email, Paulette thanked Jesus on Facebook for her "brand spanking new house" and shared a photograph of the home. "I obeyed him," she said of God, "even when the devil was riding my back." Days before we published this story, Paulette took to Facebook Live and said that about 25 years ago, after multiple suicide attempts and a nervous breakdown, she was diagnosed with dissociative identity disorder, formerly called multiple personality disorder. She said 10 years of therapy helped her integrate more than 20 personalities. She said she was going public with this after reading about the movie "Split," by M. Night Shyamalan . Once more, I felt for her -- and wished I could know what to believe. Paulette likes to say that when life gave her lemons, she made lemonade. She adopted yellow as the color of her campaign and often says "yellow is the new pink." She once mused out loud as we walked in North Carolina whether the Susan G. Komen Foundation, the embodiment of all things pink and cancer, would put out a hit on her for stealing attention from its organization. I don't think I'll ever know the full truth about Paulette. But the color that comes to mind when I think of her is neither yellow nor pink. It's the murkiest of grays.
Pottstown, Pennsylvania (CNN) Paul Steklenski has saved more than 1,000 dogs' lives in the last three years. Twice a month, the Army veteran loads about 15 animals on to a small plane and flies them from high-kill shelters in the southern US to rescue groups up north. "These animals are perfectly fine and healthy and adoptable -- (they) just can't get out of kill shelters to that freedom," Steklenski said. "They are getting a private flight to save their lives." His efforts -- and the need -- led him to start his nonprofit, Flying Fur Animal Rescue , in 2015. But this mission was never something he'd set out to do. In 2013, Steklenski began working at a company closer to his home, which led him to the idea of becoming a pilot. "I started driving to my new job, and I would pass this small airfield," said Steklenski, a network engineer. "I don't know why, but I just decided one day to go in and sign up for flying lessons." While training to get his pilot license, his family decided to adopt a dog. The process opened his eyes to a world he didn't know existed. "You learn about this huge underground railroad of people who volunteer their time, money, and energy to get these animals out of kill shelters," Steklenski said. "I became so aware and more compassionate to all animals." He got his license a few months later and realized he could do more than fly for recreation. "I thought, this is a way I can use an ability I have to help move a large amount of animals in a short amount of time," he said. Since starting the organization, Steklenski has completed nearly 100 flights to save animals, all paid for out of his own pocket. The organization now has its own plane and transports to rescue groups in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. "We're only in the plane for a short period of time, but that time is so precious to me," he said. "There are moments we share in that plane that I will never forget." CNN's Meghan Dunn spoke with Steklenski about his work. Below is an edited version of their conversation. CNN: What did you learn about the need in rescuing these animals? Paul Steklenski: There is a huge need to help get animals out of kill shelters. I learned that if they don't get out of certain areas of this country, they don't live. The further South you get, the worse it gets. And there are so many organizations up north that are no-kill that will take these animals. Once I became an airman, it was natural. Knowing that I could take a day off from work and quite literally help save the lives of a dozen or more animals just by doing this, that was it. I didn't need to know any more. CNN: What's it like to be on such a small plane with more than a dozen dogs? Steklenski: Every dog that steps foot on our plane is a 'paw-senger.' I'll look to who is the most scared or the most terrified and know that if I put them next to me, they'll be calmed. A lot of times depending on the size of my copilot, he'll kind of shimmy over, and get on my lap and fall asleep. JUST WATCHED CNN Heroes: Top Dog Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Heroes: Top Dog 01:09 Usually once the engine starts up, they hear the noise and the vibration -- everybody settles in. Some will look out the window or they'll fall asleep. It's usually a non-event. It's preferable to flying with people in a lot of ways! But it's bittersweet in the sense that you've got to spend maybe two hours with them, and they start to bond with you a little bit, and now they're moving on. It's just what you have to do; they have to move on to their next step. CNN: You dedicate a lot of time to flying animals. How do you juggle it with your full-time job? Steklenski: My full-time job helps pay for this. I spend over $1,000 a month out of my pocket to do this. I need my job to fulfill these missions and help save these animals. When I look back in time, when I was renting airplanes all the time and had to drive an hour to the airport with crates in my truck -- I look back now, I'm like, "Wow, you were nuts." It's just not something you really focus on. You're focused on what the next mission is, what's the next group of dogs I need to help. When it's something you're very passionate about, I don't think you really measure the amount of energy or time or sacrifice you put into it. You just do it. CNN: What's the future of the organization look like? Steklenski: The future of Flying Fur is take us to the next level and get a dedicated farm in Pennsylvania with an airstrip that I can fly animals into directly, where we can have an intake and adoption and rehab center. I also want to upgrade our aircraft to something bigger that can go further. I don't know how I'm going to get there yet, and it's going to take a lot of money. But that's my challenge. I've made it this far in three years. It's on my shoulders now to figure out how to get us to where we need to be. Want to get involved? Check out the Flying Fur Animal Rescue website and see how to help. To donate to Flying Fur Animal Rescue, click the CrowdRise widget below.
If you had to define what constitutes consent in sexual situations, what would you say? Is it something you could explain to your children? If you're feeling awkward or hesitating, you're not alone. And even if you think you know how to define consent, our latest survey at the Canadian Women's Foundation, which was part of the Foundation's annual Campaign to End Violence, will challenge your assumptions. While the #MeToo movement has prompted unprecedented conversation around the prevalence of sexual harassment and assault, this survey underlines the urgent need to focus on prevention and education. Women take part in a #MeToo protest march for survivors of sexual assault and their supporters in Hollywood on Nov. 12, 2017. The survey's question about defining consent asked respondents to choose which factors are needed to ensure sexual activity is consensual. Only 28 per cent — shockingly 5 per cent less than a 2015 Foundation report — recognized that consent should be: Verbal (ex: saying yes) Behavioural (ex: initiating sexual contact) Enthusiastic (ex: undressing themselves, clearly enjoying themselves, wholly participating) Ongoing (ex: continuing to provide positive verbal or behavioural cues during the activity) Although the terms verbal, behavioural and ongoing are in line with Canada's legal definition of consent, myths and confusion endure. For example, some might believe that if one partner doesn't actually say "no," or is silent, there is consent. But sexual situations that cross the line into assault can lead to a range of verbal and non-verbal reactions. Someone who is experiencing sexual assault may involuntarily freeze in response to what they're experiencing, and not be able to communicate their refusal. We need to recognize consent as a safety issue that everyone has a stake in Given that sexual assault is often committed by someone a woman knows, in the moment she may feel a sense of disbelief or paralysis that someone she cares about is hurting her. Women's socialization around "being nice" when it comes to conflict may also make it more difficult to speak up. These are just a few reasons why an ongoing two-way exchange is so important. In recent years, many sex educators have been promoting the notion of enthusiastic consent, emphasizing that rather than focusing on "No means no," sexual partners should focus on "Yes means yes" as a more proactive way of gauging consent. The crucial need for stronger education around consent is underlined by the fact that 50 per cent of women in Canada have felt pressured to consent to unwanted sexual activity, according to the survey. Of those women, 55 per cent of those between the age of 18 to 34 said they experienced pressure to consent. There will be those who think we can't change our behaviour around consent; that there will always be some uncertainty in sexual situations. People will joke about needing to have legal documents on hand during dates. But we need to recognize consent as a safety issue that everyone has a stake in. These programs need to be accessible to every young person across Canada We've changed how we approach so many other safety issues: wearing seatbelts in cars, not drinking and driving, practising safe sex by using condoms. So, why not consent? Given the social and economic costs of sexual assault and other sexual offences in Canada (an estimated $4.8 billion in 2009), as well as the potential legal consequences of not understanding it, surely, it's worth our time and attention. The good news is that the Foundation's survey revealed that Canadians of all genders want more clarity around consent. When asked what they see as the most important next step to take in the wake of the #MeToo movement, 44 per cent of Canadians said that it's educating people about how to get and give consent. So, how do we do that? At the Canadian Women's Foundation, it starts with youth. We fund programs across Canada that help teens understand consent, identify the warning signs of abuse and cultivate positive, healthy relationships. A recent evaluation of the Canadian Women's Foundation's Teen Healthy Relationships Program found that 72 per cent of teens were better able to recognize healthy relationships after being in the program, and 66 per cent were better able to say "no" to things that seemed wrong or made them uncomfortable. It's these kinds of programs that lay the foundation for healthier, more equal and consensual relationships among the next generation. But we're only able to fund a small percentage. These programs need to be accessible to every young person across Canada, so that all of them are included in creating a new approach to consent. The #MeToo movement is far from over, and the important conversations it started need to evolve, for the sake of our children and future generations. So, let's stop assuming that they'll just figure out how to give and get consent. Let's get over our awkwardness and start talking about it. The Canadian Women's Foundation's annual Campaign to End Violence supports women's shelters and violence prevention programs (including teen healthy relationship programs) across Canada. Learn more. Also on HuffPost:
Georgina Chapman, the designer and estranged wife of disgraced movie producer Harvey Weinstein, is speaking about her life in the aftermath of sexual violence and harassment accusations against her husband for the first time since they surfaced last fall. Chapman was profiled by Vogue writer Jonathan Van Meter and photographed by famed photographer Annie Leibovitz for the June 2018 issue of the magazine. “I am firmly convinced that Georgina had no idea about her husband’s behavior; blaming her for any of it, as too many have in our gladiatorial digital age, is wrong,” writes Anna Wintour, Vogue’s longtime editor-in-chief, who has been a supporter of Chapman’s for some time and writes glowingly about her in her monthly editor’s letter. “I believe that one should not hold a person responsible for the actions of his or her partner. What Georgina should be receiving is our compassion and understanding.” Wintour preempted the profile of Chapman, noting that she doesn’t believe Chapman knew about her husband’s long history of sexual predation, because it’s often the first question asked about her, especially by Weinstein survivors. I’ve spoken to over a dozen survivors of Weinstein’s sexual predation about Chapman and all of them surprisingly said they believed she was aware, in some form, of Weinstein’s behavior. Two of them told me that Weinstein made misogynistic remarks to them in front of Chapman and she did not react in any way. Emails to Chapman and her brother inquiring about these allegations were not answered by the time of publication. Others accuse Chapman of making a pact with the devil and accepting his money and influence (which greatly benefited the fashion house she co-founded, Marchesa) and turning a blind eye to his behavior. Full disclosure: I made some initial outreach for a possible profile of Chapman to some of her friends, including longtime Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin (a friend of 12 years), but never moved forward with a formal pitch because I sensed that Chapman wouldn’t put herself through a process of questioning that I would require. And I wrote two stories about Weinstein. One day after The New York Times report about Weinstein’s history of settling sexual harassment lawsuits, HuffPost published my story about Lauren Sivan, a news reporter, whom Weinstein cornered in the basement of a restaurant he owned and forced to watch him masturbate, which led to him ejaculating into a plant. Two weeks after the first round of reports, HuffPost published my second story about a shady transaction that Weinstein engaged in with amFAR, the AIDS charity. In the Vogue profile, more words are dedicated to Chapman’s hair, clothing, objets, and the ambiance of her home and office than to the sexual predation of her now-estranged husband unwittingly igniting the Me Too revolution. At one point, Van Meter describes flowers on Chapman’s desk as an “achingly beautiful arrangement of pale-pink and white roses,” but he fails to fully explore the circumstances around the aching that over 100 accusers felt. No reasonable person can expect a woman in most normal relationships to be aware of her spouse’s pattern of predation and blame her for it. But Weinstein is a different circumstance. Credible rumors of his sexual predation chased him for two decades, Weinstein and his attorneys quashed stories in publications like The New Yorker (which later published Ronan Farrow’s Pulitzer Prize-winning investigation), New York magazine, and The New York Times. Most people in the entertainment and media business had heard that Weinstein was a notorious philanderer, many people knew he engaged in sexual harassment, and still others were aware of credible allegations of rape and assault. But Chapman, despite so many people knowing about Weinstein’s cheating, asked by Van Meter if she was ever suspicious said, “Absolutely not. Never.” For one thing, he traveled constantly, she said. “And I’ve never been one of those people who obsesses about where someone is.” How do so many people know something about her very famous husband and she doesn’t even acknowledge hearing about even one rumor? There’s no doubt that sexual predators present a dichotomy, Weinstein, by all accounts, certainly did. But Weinstein was also notoriously violent and had a volcanic temper. While that is not Chapman’s fault, Van Meter didn’t ask her how it made her feel to be married to a man with uncontrollable urges. We are left wondering if she was spared that side of her husband for the 10 years they were married. The profile, which was in the works for months and involved at least four interviews, both in person and on the phone, leaves a lot of questions unasked and unanswered, and doesn’t give the reader a sense of confidence nearing what Wintour expresses in her letter. The story does not note that Chapman is bound by a non-disclosure agreement, nor does it indicate she was unwilling to discuss certain topics. Unmentioned is the now infamous 2015 incident in which Chapman’s husband was accused by model Ambra Gutierrez of sexual assault. Gutierrez recorded an interaction organized by New York police detectives of her confronting Weinstein about assaulting her the night before. After a week, and under a cloud of controversy, the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office shuttered the investigation. What did Chapman think of the incident? How did her husband explain it to her? How does she process the incident today? We don’t get answers to those critical questions in Van Meter’s profile. Typically, women who are married to sexual predators reflect on behavior they noticed but ignored ― hindsight is 20/20. Chapman offers no such reflection in this profile, and it’s not clear if Van Meter ever asked her about it. In the profile, Chapman says that when The New York Times first published its now Pulitzer Prize-winning investigation, she felt like she could perhaps work things out with Weinstein, saying, “And it was difficult because the first article was about a time long before I’d ever met him, so there was a minute where I couldn’t make an informed decision.” Chapman went on to tell Vogue that as the stories detailed more heinous allegations, particularly Ronan Farrow’s explosive investigation in The New Yorker, her situation with Weinstein became untenable. We now know that Weinstein knew about The New Yorker investigation from the time that Farrow started looking into allegations against him in January 2017. He knew about The New York Times investigation, and also that accusations of rape that would likely appear in actress Rose McGowan’s book. By all accounts, Weinstein was consumed by trying to quash these stories. Did he completely isolate Chapman from all of this? Did she see nothing? Did she see him in a state of panic in the first 10 months of 2017? We don’t get answers to these questions. Nor do we get her reaction to the stunning follow-up report by Farrow in The New Yorker detailing how Weinstein, through his longtime attorney David Boies, hired private investigators, and ex-Mossad officers, to chase down his accusers in advance of the story. Again, Chapman doesn’t have to answer for her husband’s activities and behavior, but can we at least learn what she thinks of what he did? The portrait Van Meter paints of Chapman is a woman who is shocked and stunned by the allegations against her husband, who is surrounded by loving and loyal friends, and who veers between a state of despair to being resolute. “There was a part of me that was terribly naive ― clearly, so naive,” she tells Vogue. “I have moments of rage, I have moments of confusion, I have moments of disbelief! And I have moments when I just cry for my children. What are their lives going to be?” Chapman goes on to say: “What are people going to say to them?” ... “It is almost unbearable to witness, this broken person in front of me.” ... “I just can’t bear it for them!” Wintour, in her editor’s letter, says Chapman “was near mute with shock, trying to process the emotions ― anger, guilt, revulsion, fear ― as well as grappling with the terrible wider human cost in all of this.” I’ve talked to friends of Chapman’s over the past months, and all of them speak of her lovingly. They’re protective of a woman they claim knew nothing about her husband’s behavior. I believe they are earnest, but that doesn’t mean they’re right. While Vogue’s profile may satisfy some, it’s not likely to provide answers to the Weinstein survivors who spent years living in fear of Chapman’s soon-to-be ex-husband. Some of them have wondered, in conversations with me, whether she was scared of him, too, like they were. If not, why wasn’t she? Did she not see what they saw so easily every time they saw him in public? Did she not sense the terror of these survivors when she was at his side, when they were forced to interact with him?
(CNN) Sexting among teens and younger children has increased over the past decade and poses a growing challenge for educators and parents, according to a new study . One in four young people said they'd received sexts, and one in seven reported sending them, according to the study, which was published Monday in the journal JAMA Pediatrics. The research included data from 39 separate research projects conducted between January 1990 and June 2016, with a total of 110,380 participants, all of whom were under 18 -- with some as young as 11. The researchers focused on data since 2008 and found an increase in sexting among young people. The increased number of young people involved in sending or receiving sexually explicit photographs or messages has corresponded with rapidly expanding access to cell phones. With that trend in mind, the study's authors suggest that "age specific information on sexting and its potential consequences should regularly be provided as a component of sex education." Why sext? The researchers found that younger people engage in sexting in large part as a way to begin exploring attraction to other people. "As teens get older, we are going to see increasing numbers ... who sext. Just as we see with actual sexual behavior," said study co-author Jeff Temple, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Texas Medical Branch. "It's not terribly surprising considering as teens age, their interest in sexuality is heightened. They are trying to figure out who they are." Kami Kosenko, a communications professor at North Carolina State University, agreed: "As individuals become more comfortable talking about sex and interact with more potential sexual partners, we would expect to see them engage in more sexual communication, of which sexting is a part." Kosenko was not directly involved in the study. Teens sometimes 'assume safety' The study predicts a similar upward trend in sexting among younger teens and preteens. Coupled with a lack of awareness of the risks involved, especially among younger children, that is a cause for concern, the researchers said. Preteens can be particularly vulnerable to the pitfalls of sexting. Relationships among tweens (children 10 to 12) are often short-lived, and that makes individuals more vulnerable to having sexts forwarded without consent or being subject to sextortion: the use of nude images and or videos as a form of threat or blackmail. "As tweens and kid smartphone ownership gets younger and younger, we are going to see an increase in the number of teens who are sexting," Temple said. On average, children in the study were 10.3 years old when they got their first smartphones. Danger also arises from messaging apps that give the impression that videos and images shared or stored are private, although this may not be the case. "Teens can sometimes assume safety or security is embedded in these apps when it's not," said study co-author Sheri Madigan, an assistant professor in the Department of Psychology at the University of Calgary. "Kids don't really have a clear understanding of cause and effect," Madigan said. "When they send a picture, they may not recognize they cant get it back or that it is really up to the recipient to decide how they are going to treat that picture." Kosenko said that "with youth acquiring cell phones at younger and younger ages, we should be concerned about their digital and physical safety." Part of the problem lies in the children's brains, Madigan said. "Younger teens who have less developed frontal lobes are less able to think through things than older teens. They are likely more vulnerable to being coerced into sexting or to participate in nonconsensual sexting." There is little or no literature on tweens and sexting, according to Madigan, who suggests that it is important to do further research on the topic. Nonconsensual sexting According to the study, 12.5% of young people -- or one out of every eight -- report that they have been forwarded a sext without consent from the sender and/or the receiver. "That is why this concept of digital safety and security is so important: because we know that this is happening. We know that sexts are being forwarded without consent, so if parents are having conversations with their teens about sexting, they can talk about those potential risks," Madigan said. Nonconsensual sexting can take a toll on a teen's health. "If we look at things like sexual behavior with teens, if it's consensual and both teens wanted it and are OK with it, you are not going to see the negative psychological health. If it was nonconsensual or coerced, that is where you see the negative mental health problems, and we see the same thing with sexting," Temple said. According to the study, further research needs to be conducted on nonconsensual sexting "to appropriately target and inform intervention, education, and policy efforts." What parents need to know JAMA Pediatrics defines sexting as "the sending or receiving of nude or seminude images or sexually explicit text messages." This can happen voluntarily in a relationship or when a teenager is asked to "prove" how much they like someone. It can also happen without consent. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. The biggest concern, according to the journal, is the possibility of photos or messages being spread to other people. Sexting can cause severe emotional distress, which is why it is important to talk with children about it. The researchers suggest: Start the discussion early with your kids using broad questions such as "have you heard of sexting?" By understanding what your child already knows, you can then frame your conversation. Use examples appropriate for your child's age. Be specific about the possible consequences of sexting. "Parents should be proactive and not reactive," Madigan said. Remind your teenager of their own worth. Let them know that being pressured is not OK and that sexting is not a way to "prove" their love. "If you have the conversation early and often, when problems arise, then kids know they can go to their parents and talk to them," Madigan said. Being open and withholding judgment are keys to a successful interaction with a young person about sexting, Kosenko said. "This means that demonizing sexting won't work. Also, don't assume that you are the expert on the subject or the one who should lead the discussion," she said. "You might be tempted to tell your children to ask you if they have questions, but consider what can be gained by letting your children tell you what they know and think about sexting."
Univision Communications Inc. announced on Wednesday that Vincent Sadusky will be its next chief executive officer, taking over the Spanish-language media giant as it grapples with difficult times. Sadusky is a veteran of the Hispanic-media world, having previously worked for Telemundo, Univision's main rival. "Vince is distinctly qualified to lead UCI through the next phase of its growth, given his impressive track record of leadership, vision, deep industry experience and relationships," Haim Saban, chairman of Univision's board of directors,said in a statement. "This is a unique moment for UCI, and we believe that we have the right strategy and team in place to execute on the opportunities in front of us. On behalf of the entire Board, we look forward to working with Vince to achieve great success for UCI." Starting on Friday, Sadusky will take the CEO reins over from Randy Falco, who announced in March that he plans to retire by the end of the year. Falco's announcement came as a surprise because the Univision board had just renewed his contract through 2020 a few months earlier. "I know it was only a few months after I signed a new two-year deal, but I felt that at age 65 I wanted to end my time as CEO earlier than planned," he said at the time. Falco will stay as an adviser to Univision through the end of the year. In his statement on Wednesday, Saban praised Falco's eight years with Univision, transforming it "into a modern media organization with a diverse portfolio of assets, sterling brands and content that audiences and marketers want, backed by strong earnings growth, a significantly improved balance sheet and a team of motivated and purpose-driven employees." In his own statement, Falco said on Wednesday that leading Univision "has been one of the most personally and professionally rewarding experiences of my life." "So much has changed -- and will continue to change -- in the media landscape but through it all one thing remains true: no other media company serves and supports Hispanic America like UCI, something that is more important than ever in our world today," he said. "I believe wholeheartedly in UCI's mission and vision and am confident that the Company will remain on a path for continued success with Vince leading the way." Bloomberg was the first to report last week that Univision was planning to name Sadusky as CEO. Earlier this month, the company announced an 18% drop in first quarter profits from the year before, though it remains a ratings giant. At around the same time Falco announced his planned retirement, Univision also said it was calling off a long-planned public offering and conducting a review of the business that could lead to cost cuts, the Wall Street Journal reported at the time. A source with knowledge of the company and its board said that some of the board members were "disappointed" in Falco and tasked him with cutting costs and brought in the Boston Consulting Group to help him do so. "Slashing and burning," the source said. "They're cutting an enormous amount of money out of the television and digital organization. I've never seen anything like it." In March, Saban refuted reports that the board was unhappy with Falco, saying that the board "reluctantly agreed to Randy's wishes" to retire early, adding "we could not be more pleased with his performance." The next question is whether Sadusky will oversee Univision as it considers a possible sale. In his last job as CEO of Media General, Sadusky oversaw the sale of the company to Nexstar Broadcasting Group in 2016. In a statement on Wednesday, Sadusky said he is "eager" to work with Univision's "talented team to enhance the Company's leadership position and underscore its crucial role as a source of news and information." "Over the last few months, [Univision] has taken a number of steps to evolve and thrive in today's rapidly changing media environment and I am committed to ensuring the Company is in the best position possible to serve its audiences for decades to come," he said. The Univision Network is a CNN newsgathering partner.
(CNN) Here is a look at D-Day. Allied troops invaded Normandy, France, on June 6, 1944, to fight Nazi Germany in World War II. Facts: The largest amphibious (land and water) invasion in history. The code name for the invasion was Operation Overlord. General Dwight D. Eisenhower commanded the operation, and plans were made to land in Normandy, west of where the German troops and artillery were built up. The "D" stands for Day. D-Day is code for the day an important military attack is scheduled to begin. Code names for the five beaches where the Allies landed: Utah, Omaha, Gold, Juno, and Sword. More than 13,000 aircraft and 5,000 ships supported the operation. Timeline: August 19, 1942 - A raid on the French port of Dieppe resulting in heavy losses convinces D-Day planners to land on the beaches, so discussions and preparations begin for an Allied invasion across the English Channel. May 1943 - The Trident Conference, a British and American strategy meeting on the war. In Washington, DC, Winston Churchill, President Roosevelt and their military advisers discuss, among other things, crossing the English Channel. The Trident Conference, a British and American strategy meeting on the war. In Washington, DC, Winston Churchill, President Roosevelt and their military advisers discuss, among other things, crossing the English Channel. August 1943 - The Quadrant Conference, where the British and American military chiefs of staff outline Operation Overlord. The Quadrant Conference, where the British and American military chiefs of staff outline Operation Overlord. November and December 1943 - The Sextant and Eureka Conferences, where the British and American military chiefs discuss the specifics of the assault on France. The Sextant and Eureka Conferences, where the British and American military chiefs discuss the specifics of the assault on France. 1944 - The Germans expect an invasion along the north coast of France, but they do not know where. They build up their troops and artillery near Calais, where the English Channel is the narrowest. June 5, 1944 - Allied paratroopers and gliders carrying heavy equipment leave England to begin the invasion of France by air. In a broadcast message to troops before they leave, Eisenhower tells them, "The tide has turned! The free men of the world are marching together to victory.... We will accept nothing less than full victory!" June 6, 1944 - Overnight, a military armada and more than 160,000 troops cross the English Channel. Minesweepers go ahead to clear the waters in preparation for the thousands of landing crafts that will be carrying men, vehicles and supplies. Between midnight and 8 a.m., Allied forces fly 14,674 sorties. 6:30 a.m. - Troops begin coming ashore on a 50-mile front. In a broadcast to the people of occupied Europe, Eisenhower says, "Although the initial assault may not have been made in your own country, the hour of your liberation is approaching." More about World War II and veterans:
Love actually turned to matrimony for Hugh Grant. The 57-year-old actor married his longtime girlfriend, Anna Eberstein, in London on Friday, according to reports. The couple was photographed celebrating with friends and family outside the Chelsea Register Office after a civil ceremony. Their intent to wed had already been posted in a public notice. Eberstein, a 39-year-old Swedish TV producer, and Grant have three young children together ranging in age from 5 to a few months old. It is the first marriage for Grant, who had a long-term romance with actress Elizabeth Hurley. The “About A Boy” and “Notting Hill” star also had a relationship with Tinglan Hong that produced a son and a daughter, ages 5 and 6. Grant’s official vows may surprise some, given his public stance on marriage. “I think there’s something unromantic about marriage. You’re closing yourself off,” he said on “The Howard Stern Show” in 2016. However, he also conceded that “there’s lovely aspects of it sometimes, if you marry exactly the right person, your best friend, and it’s cozy and it’s lovely.”
Barack and Michelle Obama will work both in front of and behind the camera in a multi-year production deal with Netflix. The unique pact was announced on Monday. The first content from the Obamas will appear in 2019 at the earliest, according to a person involved in the deal. Netflix did not specify a timeline. But the company's announcement of the deal said "the Obamas will produce a diverse mix of content, including the potential for scripted series, unscripted series, docu-series, documentaries and features." Sometimes the former president and first lady will be on camera as hosts or moderators, the source said on condition of anonymity. In other cases they will stay behind the scenes as producers. Financial terms were not disclosed. The Obamas are giving Netflix valuable content that many of the streaming service's 125 million members may want to watch. And Netflix is giving the Obamas a valuable platform to stay visible in their post-White House years. The Obamas said Monday that they want to harness "the power of storytelling" to promote common values. "We hope to cultivate and curate the talented, inspiring, creative voices who are able to promote greater empathy and understanding between peoples, and help them share their stories with the entire world," Barack Obama said in a statement. "Netflix's unparalleled service is a natural fit for the kinds of stories we want to share, and we look forward to starting this exciting new partnership," Michelle Obama added. The Obamas now need to hire a team of producers. They have set up a company called Higher Ground Productions "as the entity under which they will produce content for Netflix," Netflix said. These types of exclusive production partnerships are common in Hollywood -- in fact, Netflix has been attracting a bevy of A-listers, including Shonda Rhimes and Ryan Murphy. But this is a first-of-its-kind deal for a former U.S. president. The talks with Netflix were first reported back in March. Back then, The New York Times described two potential shows. In one, "Mr. Obama could moderate conversations on topics that dominated his presidency." Another show "could feature Mrs. Obama on topics, like nutrition, that she championed in the White House." In the final days of the Obama administration, it was reported that Obama was interested in pursuing digital media ventures after he left office. Jen Psaki, the White House communications director at the time, told CNN that "he is very interested in how people consume information and the changing trends," citing online and mobile news consumption.
Steve Brusatte, a palaeontologist, is on the faculty of School of GeoSciences at the University of Edinburgh. His new book " The Rise and Fall of the Dinosaurs ," telling the story of dinosaurs from their origin to extinction, was just published by William Morrow. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) The desert of northwestern New Mexico, in the vicinity of the Four Corners, is my special place. The high-altitude sun sparkles off the badlands, illuminating rocky pastels of red, green and brown that seem to extend indefinitely in all directions. No wonder that Georgia O'Keeffe -- who painted here for decades -- found this landscape as her muse. Not many people live here, making it feel like a remote backwater within the world's most industrialized country. But that's the way I like it. I'm a paleontologist, and I visit here at least once a year, to hunt for fossils of dinosaurs and other long-extinct creatures. The fewer buildings, roads and houses to cover up the treasure we seek, the better. Most of the candy-striped badlands in this part of New Mexico are carved from rocks laid down in rivers and lakes between about 84 and 56 million years ago. These were lush environments, teeming with life during a time when the Earth was much warmer and there were no ice caps on the poles. Bones, teeth, shells, and other parts of animals would often get buried in mud or sand and turn to stone, becoming the fossils that provide the only clues that these lost worlds ever existed. You can find many dinosaurs here. We often come across the railroad spike teeth of T. rex and the gargantuan limb bones of long-necked sauropods of the Brontosaurus mold, some of which weighed more than a Boeing 737, easily making them the largest animals to ever thunder across the land. We find the skull domes that horse-sized omnivores called pachycephalosaurs used to head butt each other, and the jaws that horned and duck-billed dinosaurs sliced up plants with. So many species, big and small, living together. I usually prospect these colorful hills with one of my best friends in science, Tom Williamson, a curator at the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science in Albuquerque. Sometimes, we walk for days and can't get away from the dinosaur bones, because they are so common. By now we know the best places to find them: a layer-cake series of rock strata, formed during the very end of the Cretaceous Period (84-66 million years ago). It appeared that dinosaurs would keep on ruling the world forever, as they had done for over 150 million years. Steve Brusatte You can read the layers like the pages in a novel, and although the characters are fascinating, the story is fairly uneventful. During this whole stretch of time, dinosaurs were in control. History seemed to be standing still, and it appeared that dinosaurs would keep on ruling the world forever, as they had done for over 150 million years. But then, suddenly, their bones disappear. We can pinpoint the exact place in the rock sequence. It's where the cyclical mudstones and sandstones, records of that stable Cretaceous world, abruptly give way to coarser boulder-strewn rocks characteristic of fast-moving currents and corrosive storms. Something dramatic happened to the local environment, and the dinosaurs were gone. A feathered dinosaur skeleton discovered in China. The same pattern is seen halfway around the world, in the chalky-colored limestones of Gubbio, Italy. Underneath a medieval aqueduct that clings to the sides of a deep gorge, the geologist Walter Alvarez noted that the Cretaceous rocks at the bottom of the canyon are chock full of small fossils of ocean plankton. Above these rocks, however, are nearly barren limestones, sprinkled with a few tiny, simple-looking fossils. The knife-edge separation between these two rocks is a dainty strip of clay, only about half an inch thick. The clay is the cockpit voice recorder that reveals the fate of the plankton, and the dinosaurs: it is full of iridium, an element common in outer space but rare on Earth. It was delivered by a 6-mile-wide asteroid the size of Mount Everest, which was moving faster than a jetliner when it collided with the Earth 66 million years ago, punching a crater more than 100 miles wide and causing a chain reaction of volcanoes, wildfires, tsunamis, earthquakes and climate change that wiped out some 70% of all living things. The dinosaurs couldn't cope, and all of them (except for a few birds) died. They were soon replaced, and we see the evidence in New Mexico. The chaotic boulder-filled rock layer quickly gives way to the same types of mudstones and sandstones that had been formed during the Cretaceous, a sign that environments returned to normal within a few thousand years. But there are no dinosaur bones to be found in these newer Paleocene-aged rocks (66-56 million years old). Instead, there are countless jaws, teeth, and skeletons of the things that took over from the dinosaurs, the species that went on to start the next great dynasty of Earth history: mammals. It's a sobering story, and one of relevance to us today, as our climate and environment are changing rapidly. There are consequences to all of this upheaval: we are in the age of the so-called "sixth extinction," with species dying out at hundreds or thousands of times the usual rate. Faster, perhaps, than even during the five mass extinctions of Earth history, including the one that killed the dinosaurs. Maybe dinosaurs can help save us. We're used to thinking of them as movie monsters, skeletons that wow tourists at museums, and objects of childhood fascination. But they are so much more than that. They were real living, breathing, evolving animals that had to deal with rising and fall temperatures, fluctuating sea levels, volcanoes and asteroids. After all, none of the environmental changes going on today is new. The Earth has been through them before, and dinosaurs and other extinct animals can tell the story of what happened. What died, what survived, how long it took to recover. Among the mammals that Tom Williamson has discovered in those dinosaur-free, post-extinction rocks in New Mexico is a skeleton of a puppy-sized creature called Torrejonia. It had a slender body, gangly limbs and long fingers and toes, and you can almost envision it leaping through the trees. It is one of the oldest primates -- a fairly close cousin of ours, and a reminder that we humans had ancestors that were there on that terrible day, that saw the rock fall from the sky, that survived the cataclysm while the dinosaurs did not, probably because they were small, agile, adaptable and able to eat many types of food. There is something almost poetic about it. In a sense, we are the dinosaurs. Before creatures like Torrejonia started the domino chain of evolution that led to humans, the dinosaurs ruled. They evolved superpowers like big brains, keen senses and the ability to grow to enormous sizes. There were probably many billions of them, living in all corners of the globe, that woke up on that day 66 million years ago confident of their undisputed place at the pinnacle of nature. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook We humans now wear the crown that once belonged to the dinosaurs. We are confident of our place at the pinnacle of creation, even as our actions are rapidly changing the planet around us. It leaves me uneasy, and a troubling thought lingers as I walk through the New Mexico scrublands, seeing the bones of dinosaurs give way so suddenly to fossils of Torrejonia and other mammals. If it could happen to the dinosaurs, could it also happen to us? Steve Brusatte If it could happen to the dinosaurs, could it also happen to us? Dinosaurs, of course, had no way to prevent the asteroid that killed them. But we have a choice -- we can still stop, or at least slow down, pumping toxins into the atmosphere. Our choice will dictate whether we really are the dinosaurs: whether we go the way of T. rex and Triceratops, or whether we have learned from their sad story.
David A. Love writes for thegrio.com , a website dedicated to covering news in the African-American community. He is a writer and commentator based in Philadelphia. Follow him on Twitter: @DavidALove . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. This is the next installment in the CNN Opinion series on the challenges facing the media, which is under attack from critics, governments and changing technology. (CNN) For years, newsrooms across America have had a problem with a lack of diversity and inclusion. People of color are underrepresented among news organizations, which do not reflect the makeup of the general population and have made little progress in the past decade. Although non-whites make up about 40% of the US population, journalists of color comprise only 16.55% of newsrooms' staff in 2017, according to the American Society of Newspaper Editors (ASNE) Newsroom Employment Diversity Survey. Larger newsrooms and digital news organizations are a little better — 23.4% and 24.3%, respectively — but not much. People of color are only 13.4% of newsroom leaders. This comes at a time when society needs and demands more inclusive news . It's been 190 years since the creation of the black press, and it's as relevant as ever. In the absence of an inclusive environment, the quality of journalism suffers. Certain stories are simply not reported, or are told without the nuance or perspective the circumstances require. The black press has filled that void for generations. And with the advent of digital platforms, a baton has been passed to black millennial writers to continue presenting narratives, with underrepresented points of views, that would otherwise go missing -- and do not necessarily reflect the white men who dominate the industry. Far beyond using social media for entertainment, shopping or communication, African-American millennials have elevated Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and other platforms to raise public consciousness about the issues impacting black people. The hashtags #BlackLivesMatter and #OscarsSoWhite are prime examples of this phenomenon. According to Nielsen, 55% of black consumers between 18 and 34 spend at least an hour on social media each day, 6% higher than all millennials. In addition, 29% of black millennials spend three or more hours daily on social media sites, 9% higher than that of all millennials. While black millennials fall below their counterparts in the percentage of leisure time spent on social media, they exceed the general millennial population in their overall presence on Twitter, Tumblr, Google+ and Whatsapp. That online presence has translated into the creation of a network of black news outlets specifically creating content that will meet readers and viewers where they are. Additionally, when the mainstream media covers a particular issue, the black press may cover it with a completely different angle -- if not a different issue altogether. For example, the black press rejected the mainstream media narrative that white "working class" support for Trump was primarily economic in nature, reporting instead on the presidential candidate's appeal to white solidarity, raw racism and the scapegoating of minority groups. After all, white economic angst by itself does not reconcile the fact that whites always have fared better than their African- and Latino-Americans. And while the mainstream news organizations have framed the NFL protests through the prism of patriotism and support for the military, the black press has focused on the crisis of police brutality and racial violence that underlie the athletes' decision to take a knee during the national anthem. Fifty years ago, when unrest rocked cities across the nation as a result of police brutality and systemic racism, the Kerner Commission -- an 11-member commission appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson that highlighted racism for its role in a surge in urban riots -- took the news media to task. "We have found a significant imbalance between what actually happened in our cities and what the newspaper, radio and television coverage of the riots told us happened," the Kerner report said "Our second and fundamental criticism is that the news media have failed to analyze and report adequately on racial problems in the United States and, as a related matter, to meet the Negro's legitimate expectations in journalism. By and large, news organizations have failed to communicate to both their black and white audiences a sense of the problems America faces and the sources of potential solutions." The Commission made a number of recommendations, including that news organizations employ black people beyond mere tokenism and in positions of real responsibility, and that they publish newspapers and produce programs that acknowledge black people, who they are and what they do. Although newsrooms have made some progress, it's not where it should or needs to be. But by empowering themselves and their followers — without gatekeepers and intermediaries in the traditional media sense — young, black journalists have reached a broad audience. They can educate and mobilize others to act on a given issue, and connect with local, national and global social justice movements. A videographer or documentarian can broadcast a crime in progress — such as a police beating of an unarmed motorist -- live and in real time, before an audience of thousands if not millions. In that regard, technology is the great equalizer, a check on the abuse of official power and a call to reform harmful patterns and discriminatory practices. From its inception, the black press has been a change agent by shining a light on the plight of blacks and giving them the power to write and report on their own narratives. In New York in 1827, Rev. Samuel Cornish and John B. Russwurm began publication of Freedom's Journal, the first black-owned newspaper in America. Excluded from white venues and often insulted in their absence, black voices found the need to tell their own stories. "We wish to plead our own cause. Too long have others spoken for us. Too long has the public been deceived by representations, in things which concern us dearly," wrote the editors in their first edition Throughout the Civil War , black newspapers were centers for political debate on the war and emancipation, and advocacy for black soldiers. During Jim Crow and the reign of Klan terror, the black press fought against segregation, demanded equal rights for African Americans and helped elect politicians to office. The Chicago Defender , which had demanded federal intervention from President Woodrow Wilson to stop lynchings, played a role in the Great Migration by urging a mass exodus of black people from the South. In the 1890s, journalist Ida B. Wells led a campaign against lynching at considerable personal risk. Born a slave, she wrote about the injustices of racial segregation in the South. A mob descended upon her Memphis news office, destroyed her equipment and threatened her with death. Over the years, many black publications disappeared. Others learned to navigate the new landscape, and a plethora of new black media emerged with a strictly online presence, impacting the manner that black people digest and make sense of the news. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook The days of "reading the paper" are long gone for many, but what remains the same is that the black press doesn't look like the theoretical textbook case of objective journalism -- and it was never meant to be -- whatever that means to you. When narratives are told from the perspective of a black lens, perhaps there are no two sides to a story. Perhaps there is only one side, or numerous sides with various textures and shades. What is certain is there is a sense of responsibility to the community, advocating for that community and telling their stories from their perspective. A digital environment arms African-American millennial writers with tools that enable them to carve out their own territory in their unique and innovative way -- exercising free speech and contributing to a healthy democracy, and staying true to the proud history of the black press.
(CNN) In 2011, the peaceful uprising in Syria spiraled into civil war, quickly becoming one of the bloodiest conflicts in the world today. You can aid the civilians struggling to survive in Syria -- with food, shelter, medical aid and other basic needs. The United Nations estimates that 6 million civilians are internally displaced , desperate to find safety in the destroyed cities, facing the constant threat of gunfire in the streets and bombs from the skies. JUST WATCHED Citizens fleeing underground in Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Citizens fleeing underground in Syria 02:28 More than 5 million Syrians who have fled the country face uncertainty as well. Syrian refugees also attempt the dangerous crossing of the Mediterranean Sea, seeking refuge in Europe. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) reports that in 2017, 172,301 refugees and migrants from Syria and other countries made this perilous journey. They also report that 3,119 refugees did not survive. Read More
(CNN) Tennessee is the most recent state to report an outbreak of hepatitis A, with Nashville claiming 14 confirmed cases since December. Hepatitis A is a viral infection that causes inflammation of the liver. Over the past two years, six other stateshave experienced outbreaks, and although demand for the vaccine outpaced supply earlier this year, there is enough supply to satisfy current needs, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention California, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Utah and West Virginia have reported outbreaks of hepatitis A since March 2017. Cases in these states, with the exception of Michigan, have been genetically identical or similar, according to the CDC. Laboratory reports have not determined whether the viral strains from cases in Nashville are also genetically linked. Most patients recover completely and do not have any lasting liver damage. Vaccination Hepatitis A is typically spread when people eat contaminated food or water; more rarely, the virus is transmitted person-to-person through poor hygiene and close contact. Although there are no special treatments, doctors recommend rest, adequate nutrition and fluids. Generally, people get sick between 15 and 50 days after their first exposure to the virus. Infected people can spread the virus one to two weeks before their own symptoms appear and up to one week after they develop jaundice, usually a late-appearing symptom. Vaccination is the best way to prevent an infection, according to the CDC, which has worked with public health officials in affected areas to provide guidance about targeting the vaccine to at-risk populations and has collaborated with manufacturers to increase the national supply. "The supply for children is fine, and there is enough adult supply to meet demand," CDC spokeswoman Kristen Nordlund said. "As for people talking to their doctors, it would depend on whether their doctor stocks the vaccine." She added that the CDC does not have a preferential recommendation among the hepatitis A vaccines licensed by the Food and Drug Administration, which include Havrix and Twinrix, both produced by GlaxoSmithKline, and Vaqta, produced by Merck. CDC and vaccine manufacturers continue to monitor ongoing demand for hepatitis A vaccine closely, Nordlund said. Due to the outbreak, the CDC recommends hepatitis A vaccination for people who are homeless and who use drugs, the two populations most at risk for becoming infected. Generally, inoculation with the vaccine is recommended for all children at age 1; men who have sex with other men; users of recreational drugs; people with chronic or long-term liver disease; people with clotting-factor disorders; people with direct contact with people infected with hepatitis A; travelers to countries where hepatitis A is common and family and caregivers of adoptees from those countries; and anyone else who wants protection against the disease. California California was the first state to announce an outbreak in 2017, saying it began in November 2016 . The state reported a demobilization of response as of April 11, though state, county and local health authorities continue to monitor the situation. As of April 11, California reported 704 cases, 461 hospitalizations and 21 deaths. The majority of cases -- 587 -- occurred in San Diego, though Santa Cruz, Los Angeles, Monterey and other counties were also affected. Subsequent hepatitis A cases will be included in the state's annual surveillance reports. "The majority of people who have been infected with hepatitis A virus in this outbreak are people experiencing homelessness and/or using illicit drugs in settings of limited sanitation," according to the California Department of Public Health website . "Other states are experiencing outbreaks in similar populations of at-risk people." Indiana Since November, the Indiana State Department of Health has identified an increase of hepatitis A cases in the southern part of the state, with most patients residing in Clark and Floyd Counties. The state reported a total of 107 hepatitis A outbreak-related cases as of May 25, with 51 hospitalizations. Many of the infected people have an association with patients in the large outbreak in neighboring Kentucky, according to the health department's website, which also notes that, generally, the state averages just 20 cases of hepatitis A per year. Kentucky In November, the Kentucky Department for Public Health identified an outbreak of hepatitis A. The state reported 629 total cases, 401 hospitalizations and six deaths as of May 21. "Similar to hepatitis A outbreaks in other states, the primary risk factors have been homelessness and illicit drug use," the health department noted. "It's a rare disease," said Dr. Jeffrey Howard, acting commissioner of the Department of Public Health, in a presentation recorded on Facebook . The state normally reports 20 cases annually, he added. "This outbreak is occurring across the country," Howard said, adding that it is believed the outbreak started in San Diego and then spread from there. "I suspect many, many states across the country will declare an outbreak, and they will see a rising number of cases." Michigan Michigan has been dealing with an outbreak of hepatitis A since August 2016, with 837 total cases as of May 23, including 671 hospitalizations and 27 deaths. Most of the illness has occurred in Macomb, Wayne and Oakland counties as well as in the city of Detroit. The state reported that it is continuing to see an elevated number of hepatitis A cases as of May 23. Tennessee Though the confirmed number of Nashville patients since December is only in the mid-teens, "national experts at CDC are involved and providing laboratory testing and technical consultation and support as needed," said Brian Todd, a spokesman for Music City's Metro Public Health Department. "Part of the overall effort is to try to identify the source of the outbreak; however, it is too early to make that determination." According to Todd, the Metro Public Health Department had a supply of vaccine on hand and received an additional 1,000 doses from the Tennessee Department of Health on Thursday. "We still have a good supply of vaccine, and additional vaccine is available as needed," he said. Based on confirmed cases, the city's immediate priority for vaccination includes men who have sexual contact with men and illicit drug users, Todd added. "We are considering those experiencing homelessness as an at-risk group even though there have been no cases," he said. "We have typically seen an average of two cases each year in Nashville over the past few years." Utah Utah, which identified its own outbreak of hepatitis A beginning in January 2017, reported 266 confirmed cases related to the outbreak as of Tuesday. Salt Lake County, which has reported 148 total cases including two deaths as of April 2, has carried most of this burden. "In response to the outbreak, public health officials have been working to identify cases and contacts, provide education, and ensure opportunities for vaccination of close contacts to cases and vulnerable populations," according to state health authorities. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. West Virginia
Beatrice Fihn is executive director of ICAN , winners of the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize. The opinions in this article belong to the author. (CNN) The world could only sit passively by this week as two men toyed with the fate of humanity , on the flawed assumption that Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un had our collective best interests at heart. President Trump is showing us the dangers of placing our lives in the hands of a couple of fragile men. In this month alone, he has torpedoed the successful Iran nuclear deal and sunk our best hope of North Korea engaging in direct diplomacy as a means to denuclearize. On Thursday, he threatened mass murder of millions of innocent civilians while pulling out of the upcoming summit with Kim Jong Un for reasons of hurt feelings and strong language. Does anyone feel safer now? But that is the lie nuclear states have been telling us for 70 years: We are safest living a breath away from annihilation because there are "good guys" with a nuclear weapon (Trump), who will discourage 'bad guys' from ever wanting them (Kim). Sound familiar? In reality, the greatest threat we face is the existence of nuclear weapons in the first place. Just ask South Korean President Moon Jae-In. He lives within range of conventional weapons permanently aimed at Seoul that can be launched before US nuclear weapons destroy the North Korean regime. There is no military scenario where tens of thousands of South Koreans don't die within the first minutes of any conflict. JUST WATCHED Trump: Hope Kim Jong Un will do what is right Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Hope Kim Jong Un will do what is right 04:19 Knowing this, his worst nightmare came true this year with Trump's war of words that pushed us to the brink of nuclear destruction. His solution? Careful diplomacy with the North on one hand, and gentle ego stroking of Trump on the other hand (Nobel prize, anyone?). By playing to the man's ego, Moon convinced Trump to try statesman-like diplomacy and brought North Korea on board with denuclearization. And just for a moment, the world clung to hope it would work. Early Thursday morning, North Korea, largely in a symbolic gesture, put on a show by blowing up their nuclear test site. Trump responded by blowing up the peace process. All of this goes to show we cannot rely on these piecemeal agreements on nuclear weapons to guarantee our safety. Men with fragile egos should not have the world's faith placed in them to solve these existential crises. Instead, we already have a solution. These weapons are now prohibited by treaty, and it is a matter of getting every state on board. Last year 122 nations adopted the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons at the UN, and it is well on its way to becoming international law. Quite simply, the possession of nuclear weapons by anyone is a grave humanitarian threat that we cannot countenance. South Koreans should not have to go to bed at night wondering if a Tweet sent from across the Pacific will mean they won't wake up in the morning. There is still hope for the Koreas. We've been accused by Trump of clinging to a magical vision of a nuclear free world. But this episode demonstrates we are the realistic ones, we have the legitimate path forward to denuclearization using a multilateral treaty that can't be torn up if someone's feelings are hurt.
(CNN) Medical staff who treated a Russian former spy and his daughter for poisoning by a nerve agent in the UK have told of how they initially feared the pair would die, and have said they are uncertain over their long-term health. staff from Salisbury District Hospital in southern England spoke publicly for the first time about the poisoning of 66-year-old Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia Skripal, who have both since been discharged. In an interview with BBC Two's Newsnight program,staff from Salisbury District Hospital in southern England spoke publicly for the first time about the poisoning of 66-year-old Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia Skripal, who have both since been discharged. The UK government says the pair were poisoned with a military-grade Novichok nerve agent. A police officer who attended the scene was also affected, although less seriously. Salisbury hospital's medical director, Dr. Christine Blanshard, said staff would need to continue supporting the pair. When asked of their prognosis, she responded: "I think the honest answer is that we don't know. We have a total world experience of treating three patients for the effects of Novichok poisoning, and I think it's safe to say that we're still learning." Several staff members described their shock at the nature of the case, which became the subject of a diplomatic crisis between Russia and the UK. Britain openly blamed Moscow for poisoning the pair and expelled 23 Russian diplomats from the country, while many other nations did the same to show their support for the UK. Read More
Jack Quinn was the White House counsel in the Clinton administration and is a partner at Manatt, Phelps & Phillips. Rob Weiner was the associate deputy attorney general in the Obama administration and senior counsel in the White House counsel's office in the Clinton administration. He is currently a partner at Arnold & Porter. The opinions expressed in this commentary are theirs. (CNN) On Wednesday, President Donald Trump's lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, said that Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his team have concluded that they can't indict a sitting president, simply because Justice Department guidelines prohibit such an action. Whether or not President Trump should be indicted, he can be indicted. Giuliani's statement, which he attributes to Mueller, is not, in fact, etched in constitutional granite. For starters, the Constitution does not say that a president is immune from indictment or prosecution. By contrast, the Constitution does provide limited immunity from prosecution for members of Congress: except in cases of treason, felony and breach of the peace, they are not subject to arrest when Congress is in session and they may not be "questioned in any other place" for anything they say in any speech or debate in the Congress. So, the Founders who authored our Constitution clearly knew how to provide legal immunity. They thus could easily have done so for Presidents. But they did not. The Justice Department position in question by which, according to Giuliani, Mueller feels bound is based on opinions by its Office of Legal Counsel -- one written in 1973 and the other in 2000 -- when Presidents Nixon and Clinton were both in the legal crosshairs. While well-considered, nothing about this decades-old policy restricts reconsideration, in whole or part, of the conclusion that a president cannot be subject to an indictment or trial. Notably, the staffs of Independent Counsels Leon Jaworski in 1974 and Kenneth Starr in 1998 opined that indictments could be brought against a President while still in office. Indeed, the Clinton administration's Justice Department, while concluding that "considerations of constitutional structure" suggest not indicting a sitting president, acknowledged that the Constitution does not squarely answer the question. What, then, are these structural barriers to indictment? The first is the idea that our separation of powers would be offended if one branch were able to take actions that might imperil the ability of another branch to carry out its constitutionally prescribed duties. That would arguably be the case, for example, if an official in the judicial branch (a judge, to be exact) could toss the head of the executive branch (the president) in a cell at a time when he is due to meet in Singapore with another head of state to negotiate possible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Such a meeting generally would be a legitimate exercise of executive authority, not an abuse of power that a court should be able to block. But, an indictment of the president does not really raise a separation of powers concern because the powers in play here are not truly separate. While a grand jury is an arm of the judiciary, the Department of Justice and the attorneys within it, who control the actions of the grand jury, fall under the executive branch, the same branch as the President. The Justice Department's inhibitions against indicting a sitting president are very powerful, but extreme situations would surely be enough to overcome them. In any event, if an indictment were to occur, it would not inevitably, or even probably, prevent the President from exercising his legitimate duties. The interference would come from a trial and the imposition of punishment. Nothing about an indictment alone determines the timing and pace of a trial or the conditions of a sentence. Indeed, a president would have a compelling basis, perhaps a constitutionally unassailable right, to delay any trial until his term expires. Why though would one indict, but not immediately try, a president? Among other things, it might be important to indict in order to prevent a statute of limitations from running out and rendering a presidential crime unpunishable if trial is delayed to accommodate a president's duties. Some may think that an indictment would be a cloud over the administration, and thus be contrary to the national interest. If this were so, an indictment could be sealed and kept secret until the president's term concluded. Or the more likely scenarios would be either a presidential resignation or resorting to the 25th Amendment , which could enable the vice president to stand in for the president if an actual or impending trial prevented him from performing his duties. The Supreme Court undermined the "interference" argument in Clinton v. Jones. In that case, Paula Jones, a former Arkansas state employee, sued President Clinton alleging that he made sexual advances when he was governor and retaliated against her when she complained. The Supreme Court held forcefully that the president is subject to the same laws that apply to all other citizens; that there is no immunity for unofficial conduct; and that the separation of powers doctrine does not require delaying private actions until after the president leaves office. The Paula Jones case stands for the proposition that the federal courts will not allow the president's official duties to shield him against private litigants who legitimately seek to advance a claim. The interest protected by the Supreme Court was Paula Jones' right -- as a single citizen and a plaintiff -- to sue a sitting president in a civil case. When we enforce our criminal laws, the protected interest is not just that of a single plaintiff: it is, in the truest sense, the public's interest because, in the hierarchy of administering justice, the enforcement of our criminal laws protects us all. That collective interest in the administration of criminal justice is precisely why we say no one is above the law. Even presidents. The Office of Legal Counsel opinions argue, however, that an indictment would itself be far more debilitating than a civil suit, distracting the president and eclipsing his moral authority. But that is not an entrenched rule of law. It is a judgment based on context. In any event, it is not clear why an indictment would be more debilitating and distracting than a pledge by the prosecutor to indict the president as soon as his term ends, or a report by the special counsel accusing the president of committing felonies. On the contrary, an indictment provides a president the opportunity for vindication by a favorable jury verdict. While the Office of Legal Counsel is authorized to render legal advice, it is not so clear that the office establishes the policies of the Department of Justice. More importantly, the point of a special counsel is to be independent of the political offices of the Department of Justice. Notwithstanding its long tradition of professionalism, the Office of Legal Counsel is run by political appointees. The other structural problem that some find with the idea of indicting a sitting president is the Constitution's procedure for dealing with presidential crimes: impeachment. But impeachment is a process simply to remove an official from office and protect that office and the Republic as a whole. Criminal processes, by contrast, exist to deter and to punish individuals for their wrongdoing. Impeachment from office is simply not a substitute for punishment, and that is why the Constitution specifies that an official removed from office as the result of impeachment, "shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to Law." Again, our point here is not what the special counsel should do with regard to his investigation, but what he can do. So, contrary to what Mr. Giuliani may think, a special counsel can indict a president, as long as -- and only as long as -- the evidence and circumstances so dictate.
Caroline Polisi is a federal and white collar criminal defense attorney in New York and is Of Counsel at Pierce Bainbridge. She frequently appears on CNN as a legal analyst and is an anchor at the Law & Crime Network, providing live legal analysis on high profile court cases. Follow her on Twitter: @CarolinePolisi . The views expressed in this commentary are her own. Representing Clifford as an "interested party" in the federal matter pertaining to the search warrants executed in April on the home, office and hotel room of Donald Trump's personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, Avenatti couldn't find a seat at the table -- literally or figuratively. Lawyers for the other represented parties (Cohen, President Donald Trump and the Trump Organization) wouldn't make room for Avenatti at counsel's table, and so Avenatti made due by pulling up a chair at the end of the back table, cater-corner to Ellen Beth Resnick, a lawyer for the Trump Organization. He also didn't have a microphone, so he had to get up and walk across the courtroom to stand at the podium any time he wanted to address Judge Kimba M. Wood, the federal district court judge presiding over the matter. Avenatti's purported objective has been to represent Clifford as a formal, intervening party in Cohen's case, the entirety of which has very little to do with his client. JUST WATCHED Cohen's lawyers confirm client recorded conversations Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cohen's lawyers confirm client recorded conversations 02:30 Avenatti has been adamant in court filings that his fight to represent Clifford, and thus to be admitted to practice law in the Southern District of New York on a pro hac vice basis ("for this occasion only"), stems from his duty to protect her interests in any records -- including any audio recordings between Cohen and Clifford's former attorney Keith Davidson -- that may have been swept up in the FBI raids of Cohen's premises. On Twitter, Avenatti has dubbed these possible recordings the "#TrumpTapes," although there was absolutely no indication made by any party at the hearing that Trump was -- or was even possibly -- on those recordings. Unfortunately for Clifford, this may be where Avenatti's winning streak comes to an end. Until this point, Avenatti has been pursuing a dual pronged approach: duking out multiple legal issues, both in the various legal courts in which he has filed cases (or in this instance, in a case in which he would like to formally represent a party), and in the court of public opinion. He has been making multiple cable news appearances, sometimes several times a day on several different networks, arguing for his client. He even pressed his case in an appearance on Stephen Colbert's "The Late Show." He is now at a crossroads, and he may have to forgo at least one courtroom battle. Wood was nonplussed by Avenatti's colorful and impassioned rhetoric, which included his assertion that he has been "an exemplary member of the bar for 18 years" with an "exceptional track record." JUST WATCHED Avenatti asks for release of Cohen recordings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Avenatti asks for release of Cohen recordings 01:30 At the end of one of Avenatti's soliloquies, Wood noted that he has "no standing to make these points," and that "until you are admitted here, I don't expect you to stand and be heard." That's basically lawyer speak for "you have no right to be here." In keeping with their stance in court filings, Cohen's attorney, Stephen Ryan, on Wednesday vehemently opposed Avenatti's request to join the case, citing Avenatti's release of confidential bank records to the media. "I've never seen an attorney conduct himself in the way he has," Ryan said, and called Avenatti's behavior reckless. Matching Avenatti's flare for the dramatic, Ryan noted that he's never opposed a motion of this nature in his 37 years of practice, but he did so on Wednesday because of Avenatti's "intentional, malicious, and prejudicial release of information" which amounted to a "drive-by shooting" of his client. Taking these and other matters into consideration, Wood calmly warned Avenatti that if he were to be admitted in this matter, "You'd have to stop doing some of the things you've been doing." On the other hand, she noted, if he is not formally allowed to intervene in this case, she can't stop him from continuing his "publicity tour." It seems this warning struck a chord with Avenatti. Immediately after the conference, Avenatti withdrew his pro hac vice motion, stating he would refile his application at a later date if necessary. After the conference, he proceeded directly to the microphone podium outside the courthouse to make a short statement, as has been his signature practice (none of the other attorneys stopped for comment), and to introduce his "Trump Tapes" designation for media consumption. So, it seems Avenatti has chosen to continue his media blitz, rather than peruse an actual seat at the table before Wood; we will no doubt be hearing from Avenatti on a cable news broadcast imminently, but we won't be hearing from him again anytime soon in Wood's courtroom.
Samantha Bee used her show Wednesday night to highlight the Trump administration’s questionable treatment of undocumented children, at one point calling Ivanka Trump a “feckless c**t” for her inaction on the issue. The comments prompted outcry, with the White House deeming them “vile and vicious.” By Thursday afternoon, “Full Frontal With Samantha Bee” had begun to lose sponsors, as Autotrader and State Farm bowed to pressure on social media and pulled their ads. “The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company,” Autotrader said in a statement. “As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship.” Thank you to those who reached out regarding our sponsorship of Full Frontal. The comments expressed by Samantha Bee were offensive and unacceptable and do not reflect the views of our company. As a result, we have suspended our sponsorship of Full Frontal with Samantha Bee. — Autotrader (@AutoTrader_com) May 31, 2018 Autotrader declined to elaborate on its decision in a statement to HuffPost. Insurance company State Farm shortly followed suit. “We have asked TBS to suspend our advertising in the program and are reviewing any future placements,” the company told The Wrap. “We constantly review programs to ensure alignment to our programming guidelines and brand values.” Bee apologized to Ivanka Trump and to her viewers for the remarks shortly after Autotrader announced its decision, calling her use of the expletive “inappropriate and inexcusable”: I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable. I crossed a line, and I deeply regret it. — Samantha Bee (@iamsambee) May 31, 2018 TBS, which airs Bee’s show, also offered an apology, saying in a statement, “Those words should not have been aired. It was our mistake too, and we regret it.”
Jill Filipovic is a journalist based in New York and Nairobi, Kenya, and the author of the book "The H-Spot: The Feminist Pursuit of Happiness." Follow her on Twitter . The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) Fallen New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is one of a growing list of prominent Democratic men who have stepped aside after pressure from their own party; he is also part of a growing list of men who stand accused of serious misconduct toward women, some of it potentially criminal. Mere hours after the New Yorker published an astonishing, deeply disturbing article detailing allegations of physical and psychological abuse by Schneiderman, Democratic politicians called for Schneiderman's resignation, and he gave it. Republicans exulted on Twitter: Kellyanne Conway, for example, tweeting "Gotcha." It's hard to miss the glaring partisan gap here: While mistreatment of women seems to transcend political boundaries, the Democratic and Republican parties' response to allegations of abuse and harassment are starkly different. Democrats increasingly police their own. Republicans, in large part, shrug. As soon as the New Yorker piece dropped, both enemies and allies of Schneiderman demanded he be accountable to Democratic ideals and immediately step down. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, running in a surprisingly challenging primary against Cynthia Nixon, has long had tensions with the AG, and so it was unsurprising that he called for his resignation. But he wasn't the only one. New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, who has worked with Schneiderman and enjoyed a close relationship with him, also immediately said he should not continue to serve, and that there should be "a full and immediate investigation." Ilyse Hogue, the president of NARAL Pro-Choice America, which had honored Schneiderman's work fighting for reproductive freedom, tweeted that she was "pained and appalled at the credible allegations against him." JUST WATCHED Farrow on Schneiderman: This was not role play Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Farrow on Schneiderman: This was not role play 02:53 Dawn Laguens, the executive vice president of Planned Parenthood, tweeted "Time's up on people whose public and private actions do not match," and that "it's right that [Schneiderman] resign." We saw the same dynamic when former Minnesota Sen. Al Franken was accused of sexual harassment. While there are still criticisms that he was pushed out too fast without a proper investigation, the reality is that it was his fellow Democrats who demanded he go. He resigned in January. When the accusations against Harvey Weinstein surfaced, Republicans demanded Democrats return the donations he had given them, and they did. If you're a Democratic politician, donor or public figure, mistreating women comes with serious consequences. That's not so true if you're a Republican. The GOP has become so disturbingly power-hungry it is willing to put party before anything else -- before country, before the Constitution, and certainly before women. There is the obvious example of the President himself, who bragged on tape about grabbing women's genitals -- which is not mere "groping," but a crime of sexual assault -- and who has been accused of assault or harassment by more than a dozen women. He denies the allegations. JUST WATCHED Embattled Gov. Greitens refuses to step down Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Embattled Gov. Greitens refuses to step down 01:46 Donald Trump also gratuitously insults women, often in darkly sexist terms: He has called those who dare challenge him pigs and dogs, and has obsessed over the blood allegedly coming off one female TV host's post-facelift face and coming out of another's "wherever." He still enjoyed the Republican nomination for the presidency, and now sits in the Oval Office. But he's hardly the only one. Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens will go to trial next week on a felony invasion of privacy charge after allegations he imprisoned and sexually abused a woman with whom he was having an affair, then took photos that he used for blackmail, which he denies. He also sought, and failed, to have her testimony barred from court. Not only is Greitens still in his position, but Sen. Roy Blunt of Missouri has refused to call for his resignation, and Trump has ignored the whole story. To their credit, some Republicans are encouraging Greitens to quit. But the people with the most influence -- the Republican senator in his state and the President -- are staying mum. And then there's Steve Wynn, a prominent Republican donor and casino magnate who stepped down as chairman and chief executive of his company, Wynn Resorts, and as GOP finance chairman, after accusations of sexual harassment and assault (he denies it). After the GOP harangued Democrats about the Weinstein donations, and even used that gotcha in their own fundraising materials, the Republican National Committee refused to return Wynn's money. So far, it has paid no political price. JUST WATCHED Moore spokesman: This is a smear campaign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Moore spokesman: This is a smear campaign 01:51 And who could forget Alabama's Roy Moore, who still hasn't conceded the Senate election he lost months ago after he was accused of having relationships with underage girls and trolling local malls to pick up teenagers? He denied the allegation, and enjoyed the support of the Alabama Republican Party. Former Maricopa County, Arizona, Sheriff Joe Arpaio not only oversaw jails where inmates were so badly mistreated they sometimes died, but also ignored hundreds of sex crimes cases, leaving child abusers and rapists free, and simply disregarding victims of sexual assault -- including children (he denies all of this). He was convicted of criminal contempt related to his hard-line tactics going after undocumented immigrants, and last August Trump pardoned him. Last week, Vice President Mike Pence appeared at an event with Arpaio and sang the man's praises. Bill O'Reilly did lose his Fox job over sexual harassment allegations (which he denied), but he's quietly returned to the air. Rob Porter, a Trump White House staffer who was accused of physically abusing his two wives, denied it and eventually resigned anyway, but not before top administration officials came to his defense -- and it turned out they had known about the abuse allegations long before they became public, and protected Porter anyway. JUST WATCHED Fox gave O'Reilly deal after $32M settlement Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fox gave O'Reilly deal after $32M settlement 01:37 The former chief strategist for Trump, Steve Bannon, was charged with misdemeanor domestic violence, battery and dissuading a witness in a 1996 case involving his then-wife. He pleaded not guilty and the charges were eventually dismissed; Trump hired him and then --according to Politico reporter Eliana Johnson (quoting a person who was present when the future president learned of the alleged abuse) -- nicknamed him "Bam-Bam." Ha ha. It all sends a clear message: Republicans are simply willing to accept abuse of women if it's politically convenient. While misogyny is clearly a bipartisan problem -- and Schneiderman is at the beginnings of paying a price over allegations of same -- only one party seems to actually do anything about it.
Hanging in tonight with your dog and 10 episodes of a true crime show instead of going to that party? Maybe it’s time for a fragrance that matches your withdrawn lifestyle. Funny Or Die introduces its new scent, Introvert. It’s like a butterfly that never leaves the comforting walls of the cocoon. Or a classroom with no participation — “Put your hand down,” someone whispers. “Forever.”
Washington (CNN) Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson will name the son of his close friend and business associate as deputy chief of staff, the department confirmed Wednesday. Alfonso Costa Jr., 29, is expected to join the department in the coming weeks, a source familiar with the decision told CNN. The arrival comes as one of Carson's closest political aides, deputy chief of staff Deana Bass, leaves the department and shortly after a relative novice to housing policy, Andrew Hughes , was promoted to chief of staff. "Alfonso Costa Jr. is a graduate of Yale, Oxford and Harvard Law," HUD spokesman Raffi Williams said in a statement to CNN. "If his academic achievements are any indication of success, we are confident he will make significant contributions to the Department. The Secretary looks forward to having him serve as trusted and valued adviser." Calls to Costa's phone number were not returned. Read More
× Destrehan minister with St. Charles Parish mansion seeking donations to buy $54M jet DESTREHAN, La. — Jesse Duplantis, the Destrehan evangelical minister who lives in one of the largest homes in all of St. Charles Parish, wants to buy a a new jet. And he needs your help to do it. The preacher opened up about his need for a new jet on a weekly video message posted on the Jesse Duplantis Ministries website. “Now some people believe that preachers shouldn’t have jets. I really believe that preachers ought to go on every available voice, every available outlet, to get this gospel preached to the world,” he said. This wouldn’t be his first jet — it would be his fourth — but it would be his first jet with three engines that would allow him to go anywhere in the world without stopping, he said. “I really believe that if Jesus was physically on Earth today, he wouldn’t be riding a donkey,” Duplantis said. “Think about that for a minute. He’d be in an airplane preaching the gospel all over the world.” According to the St. Charles Herald, Duplantis’ home is a combined 35,000 square feet. That includes 22,039 square feet of living space 12,947 square feet of outdoor patios, garages and other amenities. In 2016, Duplantis defended his use of private jets, noting that commercial airlines won’t allow you to unbuckle your seat belt and stand up to speak to God.
Photographer Trupal Pandya traveled about 30 hours by air, water and land to reach this native community and take their portraits. The Huaorani, which means "the people" or "human beings," are believed to have inhabited the rainforest for thousands of years. Until about the 1960s, they never had any contact with the outside world. Pandya said there is a contrast between the modernization of the younger generation, who travel to areas outside of their community, and the older generation, who make efforts to maintain their traditional ways of living. Diverse changes have taken place within the community: the introduction of radios within many Huaorani homes, the consumption of food from cities and the adoption of Westernized clothing. For Pandya, these changes were a significant factor in his decision to photograph the Huaorani. Photographer Trupal Pandya "The biggest (reason) was to just go out there and photograph the change before everything changes," Pandya said. "I think if I would have (photographed the Huaorani) 10 years back down the line or a little later than that, I don't think I would have got what I just got." Another aspect of modernization has to do with language. Many Huaorani, who for years have only communicated using a regional dialect, now speak the Ecuadorian native language of Spanish. Pandya speaks English, so he needed translators to interact effectively. But it is apparent from his experiences with the Huaorani that actions can certainly not only speak louder than words, but be more effectual than words when attempting to convey one's intentions. "I never started photographing when I (first) saw (the Huaorani)," he said. "I didn't even have my camera. I waited to let them get used to me around them. I gave myself time to get a little easier around them. Even if you cannot talk in the same language, I feel that you definitely connect to them as a human being." Social media Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. Prior to creating formal portraits using his professional camera equipment and lighting, Pandya took Polaroid photos of the Huaorani that they were then able to keep. "I think some of them saw the Polaroid for the first time, so they were really happy to see themselves like that," Pandya said. For his formal portraits, Pandya placed his subjects in front of a solid white background in order to portray the Huaorani in a very direct and concise manner, eliminating the presence of any distractions. "The main reason was to have the focus only on the people and their clothes and nothing else but them as an individual, them as a human being," he said. Pandya's decision to use a white background also proved effective in highlighting the coexistence between the Huaorani and the different kinds of animals they encounter daily in their natural environment. Creating portraits of the Huaorani has been a "fascinating, challenging" experience for Pandya, who is studying photography in New York at the Fashion Institute of Technology. After witnessing firsthand the simplicity in which the Huaorani live in harmony with their environment, Pandya said he finds himself thinking about and reflecting upon what it truly means to be satisfied and content with life. "I think the question I ask myself is: 'Who's richer?' " he said. "(This has been) a really big learning curve of how to just live a very beautiful, normal life."
Jill Filipovic is a journalist based in New York and Nairobi, Kenya, and the author of the book "The H-Spot: The Feminist Pursuit of Happiness." Follow her on Twitter. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) Mamoudou Gassama is a real-life superhero. The 22-year-old Paris man scaled a four-story building to pluck a child dangling precariously over a sidewalk in the 18th Arrondissement, earning the nickname "Spider-Man of the 18th." For his heroism, he will be rewarded with legal status in France. Jill Filipovic That's more than deserved for Gassama, and as anti-immigrant sentiment continues to fester in Europe and the United States, it's certainly gratifying to see an African migrant as the protagonist of an urban superhero story. Of course, selfless, brave men who put their lives on the line to save a child are exactly who you want in your country. And indeed, as the BBC points out , rewarding heroism like Gassama's is in fact written into France's civil code: "Article 21-19 says that a fast-track naturalization procedure is possible for a foreign national who has 'performed exceptional services for France, or whose naturalization would be of exceptional interest for France'." This story has revealed one of the oddities of the Western world's relationship to immigrants. Consider that the very act of leaving one's home, crossing borders (often dangerously) and relocating to a place one might not even be able to imagine is itself an act of extreme bravery, undertaken by people who are willing to assume great personal risk in the search for prosperity and the promise of a better future. Some are fleeing violence and instability, others poverty; either way, it is never only desperation that gets someone across a desert or ocean; it's also great ambition, resourcefulness and determination — desirable traits, to be sure. Yet with a swipe of a bureaucrat's pen, people who go to unimaginable lengths to grasp at a brighter future can see all their dreams crumble -- dreams that were not even so big, usually little else than a wish to have one's family safe and sheltered and fed. Read More
After fuel prices reached a record high in India in the last week, Indian Oil had announced earlier on Wednesday that it had cut petrol and diesel prices by 60 paise and 56 paise per litre respectively. However, later in the day the leading fuel retailer corrected the itself and said that it had only reduced petrol and diesel prices by 1 paisa per litre. Indian Oil Corporation corrects earlier figures, Petrol prices went down not by 60 paise in Delhi & 59 paise in Mumbai but by just 1 paise. Diesel prices also went down by just 1 paise instead of 56 paise in Delhi & 59 paise in Mumbai pic.twitter.com/OXqR2QEIBP — ANI (@ANI) May 30, 2018 While the news of the reduction in fuel prices were supposed to be a relief, a 1 paise reduction is not going to be of any help to consumers who have been hit by the steep rise in fuel prices. LiveMint reports that with the current reduction, petrol at Indian outlets in Delhi cost Rs 78.42 and diesel Rs 69.30 per litre. Delhi has the cheapest fuel prices among all metros. Fuel prices are different in different states because of differing taxes. Reuters had reported earlier in the day that after Saudi Arabia and Russia said they were ready to ease supply curbs oil prices went down about $75 a barrel.
John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion who focuses on climate change and social justice. Follow him on Snapchat , Facebook and email . This story is part of CNN's " Vanishing " series. Learn more about the sixth extinction and get involved . Mount Ashland, Oregon (CNN) He was an old man who spent his days alone in the mountains of southern Oregon looking for a bee. He hadn't seen the bee -- no one had seen this particular bee species -- in 10 years when he asked me to join him. It was August, the last breath of summer bee season. Robbin Thorp, then 82, a retired entomologist from University of California-Davis, wore a safari hat, tinted bifocals and a T-shirt with an image of Franklin's bumblebee printed on the chest. That black-and-yellow bee, which looks like so many others except for the characteristic "U" on its back, is the object of Thorp's obsession. It's a creature he told me flies through his dreams, always just out of reach. Finding it -- believing it can be found -- is what brings him to this spot 6,400 feet above sea level, near the base of a ski lift, even though his gait is wobbly now and these craggy, alpine ravines could break a 20-something hip. Franklin's bumblebee is a species other scientists fear extinct. But Thorp will barely entertain that idea. "When things are rare, they're really, really hard to find," he told me. Thorp can be matter of fact like that. And so the old man keeps looking, bee net in one hand and "bee vacuum" in the other. He walks from one flower to the next, inspecting the pollinators. If he sees one that might be Franklin's he'll slurp it into the bee vacuum, which looks like a child's water gun. Then he closely inspects it: "Just another one of the common bumblebees." He does this on his own time and for no pay, usually alone. Day after day, year after year. It's almost like something out of Hemingway: The old man and the bee. I'll admit that when I met Thorp on August 8, 2016, the day before the 10-year anniversary of his last sighting of Franklin's bumblebee, which occurred on that very slope, I had my doubts about his quest. To me, the bee hunt seemed like a Sisyphean task. That's because scientists say we are entering a new age of mass extinction. Species are disappearing at something like 100 times the normal rate, and biologists fear three-quarters of all species could disappear in the next couple centuries if we don't stop polluting the atmosphere and bulldozing habitat. In that context, it's hard not to see Thorp as an old man living in an old world, one where a species reasonably can be expected to survive one year to the next. We don't live in that world anymore. But after two days with Thorp I realized that he's on to something. It's precisely when we stop looking for species that we allow them to vanish. 'WOAHDUDE' I'm sure by now you've read something about bees being in trouble. Maybe you've heard of "colony collapse disorder," or perhaps there's a do-gooder on your Facebook page who is raising a beehive in her yard and takes way too many selfies in a Space-Age suit. All of that barely scratches the surface of the trouble bees face. There are roughly 20,000 species of bees in the world -- that's more than birds or amphibians or reptiles or mammals -- and the Western honey bee, the one you usually hear about, the one that lives in big, social hives and is domesticated to produce honey -- is just one of those species. To get a sense of what the other 19,999 are like, it helps to talk to Sam Droege, a researcher at the US Geological Survey's Bee Inventory and Monitoring Lab in Maryland. Droege spends his days taking super-high-resolution photos of dead bee specimens, some of which come from natural history museums and others that are pulled from field research. One benefit of the work is that it provides a detailed catalog of species, in case they disappear. But the photos are also just really freaking cool -- in that way potheads can appreciate. Some of the images first got popular on a stoner-themed subpage of the website reddit. The page is called "WOAHDUDE." Droege's daughter brought that to his attention, "Why was my daughter looking at the stoner subreddit, I don't know!," he told a documentary film crew Take a look at a few of the images: Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees There are an estimated 20,000 bee species worldwide, including those with green and blue bodies. This bee was collected from Biscayne National Park near Miami. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees "An obscure bee of the desert, Martinapis luteicornis, only is active early in the morning just as the sky begins to lighten," writes Sam Droege with the US Geological Survey. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees This male bee comes from Oahu, Hawaii. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees "Ah, the lovely yellow of Bombus perplexus," writes Droege. "For some reason, this species' coloration tends towards bright yellow while other eastern bumbles are more subdued in their yellowness. It varies with their age (the sun fade bumbles plumage) but a nice lemon yellow (color) usually means this species." Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees Anthidiellum ehrhorni lives in the dry, US Southwest. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees This bee with iridescent wings was collected in Michigan. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees This bombus perplexus -- a bumblebee -- specimen is from central Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees Andrena wellesleyana is "one of a number of species where the males have extensive yellow on their faces while the females are completely black." Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees A bee captured in Arizona. It has orange pollen stuck to its face and sides. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees Diadasia rinconis, a bee with pollen and "a few stray cactus balls" on its hairy body, writes Droege. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees "This beautiful blue bee nests in snail shells," writes Droege. The Osmia conjuncta specimen comes from Maryland. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees A female Agapostemon splendens. Collected at Timucuan Ecological & Historic Preserve in Florida. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees Bombus ternarius -- a bumblebee -- was collected in Franklin County, New York. "In most of New England, the only Bumble Bee with significant orange and yellow on its abdomen," Droege writes. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: The amazing diversity of wild bees Bombus bimaculatus is another species of bumblebee, found in Virginia. Hide Caption 14 of 14 We're losing this diversity fast. So that's the stoner argument for why bees matter. Here's the self-interested one: Bees help pollinate 35% of the world's food, and bumblebees, of which Franklin's bumblebee is (or was) one, pollinate everything from tomatoes to cranberries and blueberries and melons. Yet they live in underground colonies, caring for a queen. And they don't make honey, so you don't hear as much about them from journalists. Sarina Jepsen, deputy chair of the International Union for Conservation of Nature's bumblebee specialist group, and a director at the Xerces Society, an environmental nonprofit, told me about 25% of bumblebees in North America are at risk for extinction. "If you think about it, that's a really strikingly high percentage of a fauna to be declining -- and in some cases really crashing," said Leif Richardson, a postdoctoral fellow at the Gund Institute for Ecological Economics. And much of the vanishing is undocumented. "It's abysmal what we know right now," Droege, from USGS, told me. "There are just too few people on the ground looking." 'It was just gone' Robbin Thorp started looking for Franklin's bumblebee in the 1960s. He'd taken an entomology course at the University of Michigan and got hooked on the invisible insect world. It's an obsession that was, from the start, both personal and professional. He told me his first wife did not love the fact that he kept stacks of insect eggs and other specimens in their apartment. "She was not a naturalist," he said, laughing. "But she put up with it." In 1998, he began to study Franklin's bumblebee in earnest. In part, he was interested in whether the bee should be listed under the Endangered Species Act. But he also just wanted to know what this bee was all about. Why did it live only in northern California and southern Oregon when so many other bee species had wider ranges? Which flowers did it prefer? Which plants and potentially crops would be lost without it? Back then, the bee was relatively abundant -- not the most common, but far from the least. "I could walk down and see (Franklin's bumblebee) on every patch of flowers," he told me. "I'd see 15, 20 of 'em in just a short distance." A year or two later, the bee became more difficult to find. Then all of a sudden: "It was just gone." Thorp's work shifted from what-is-this-bee-up-to to where-the-hell-did-it-go. The bee scientist, in a sense, became a detective. Who or what could have killed Franklin's bumblebee? Thorp hoped finding it might offer some clues. 'There's something flying!' I met Thorp on a cool, clear morning in the parking lot at the base of Oregon's Mount Ashland Ski Area. You could see California's Mount Shasta from this altitude. I worry about meeting people for the first time -- whether I'll know who they are and all that. But identifying Thorp was no trouble at all. White truck, bumblebee sticker on tailgate. Yep, that's him. His treasured bee, however, proved much harder to pick out of a crowd. We drove 15 minutes or so down a gravel road toward the meadow where Thorp last spotted Franklin's bumblebee, on August 9, 2006, a date he recites from memory. When we stopped, Thorp pulled a little wooden box out of the back of his pickup and opened it. Inside, rows of dead bees with pins stuck through them. "These are Franklin's," he said, pointing to three of them. "A queen, a worker and a male." Shaky handwriting dated the specimens: "1950." The trouble: Franklin's bee looked like so many others in the box. Thorp told me Franklin's is distinguished by its "round black face" -- "some of the others have a very long face," he said -- and by a U-shaped black marking on its back, near the wings. "You're going to be seeing a lot of these," Thorp said, pointing to the Yellow-Faced Bumblebee, which, true to name, has a yellow face (as does Franklin's) and a distinguishing yellow stripe on its abdomen. None of this helped me much. I drew a few pictures in my notebook -- jotted down these descriptions and pretended I could tell all of these seemingly identical bees apart. "There's something flying!" Thorp said, pointing to a bee that buzzed right by my leg. "It's probably headed for the flowers." Apparently, so were we. 'That's a fly' To find bees, Thorp told me, you start with the flowers. If you know something about bumblebees and what they're up to -- I didn't, Thorp did -- this makes sense. Bumblebees serve a queen, which is buried in a den beneath the ground. Worker bees -- females that don't reproduce because they're not the queen -- fly around during the day collecting flower pollen and nectar for food and energy. They carry the pollen back to the nest in saddle bags, which look like little orange or yellow (it depends on the pollen) footballs taped to their legs. I asked Thorp if this was the origin of the phrase "the bee's knees." Sorry to report: It's not. He did tell me, however, that all of these bumblebees, except the queen, die each year. The queen hibernates through the winter alone, producing the next year's generation. It's a risky life cycle, and it's one reason Thorp is so concerned about Franklin's, which, by the way, is named for a researcher, not Benjamin Franklin. Another fun bumblebee fact: Females sting, males don't. To prove the point, Thorp slurped a male from the air with his bee vacuum -- ZEEEEEEEEP! -- and put the poor guy in my hand. "It's kind of like a cell phone on buzz mode," he said. That's exactly how it felt. That buzz -- which is much stronger on a bumblebee than other bees -- is what shakes pollen off of flowers, helping them reproduce. Bumblebees pollinate crops other bees can't. Some bees have evolved to pollinate very-specific plants. Franklin's bumblebee can pollinate many things, Thorp told me, but it tends to prefer two plants: a mini-mum-looking flower called yellow buckwheat; and a purplish blossom commonly called coyote mint, but which Thorp calls "monardella." We set our sights on those flowers and continued scanning the field. The trouble: These flowers were everywhere. Notebook in hand, I started testing my bee-ID skills. I pointed at a bee I thought, stupidly, might be Franklin's. "This also has a yellow face but it's shaggier looking," he said. I'd never thought of bees as "shaggy" before. "Which one is that?" I asked. "That's a fly." 500 million butterflies The precise location where Thorp saw Franklin's bumblebee in 2006 is on a steep slope, past a clump of trees and slightly below the Pacific Crest Trail, the famous hiking path. Unlike me, Thorp can identify bees in a split second. He knew instantly that this was Franklin's bumblebee, which he hadn't seen in three years at that point. He saw it zip down the meadow, across what now is a field of yellow buckwheat, and toward a soggy ravine. Thorp was 72 then. Still, he ran downhill after the bee. He never caught it. And he remains mystified by its disappearance. That's because the usual bee killers don't make total sense for Franklin's. There are a number of reasons for the crash of pollinators bees worldwide. Mainly, they are habitat loss ( nearly 40% of all land is used for agriculture , according to the Food and Agriculture Organization), climate change (the land that's left is changing, and this is shrinking the ranges of some bees) and rampant chemical use. You may remember seeing images of millions of dead bees in South Carolina earlier this year. Officials sprayed insecticide in hopes of killing mosquitoes that could transmit the Zika virus. Millions of honeybees became unintended casualties. More pervasive, though, are pesticides and herbicides, which are routinely sprayed on crops like corn. More than 500 million monarch butterflies have disappeared since 1997 , according to the Center for Biological Diversity. That's partly because herbicide use has killed off much of their habitat, the group says, noting that a Texas sized chunk of monarch habitat has been lost in the last 20 years. Some researchers fear their epic migration is in jeopardy. Franklin's bumblebee, meanwhile, seems to live on a pristine, alpine meadow, with few people around and no crops that I saw. Its historic range only includes California and Oregon. Climate change is mangling so many things in the natural world it's difficult to tease out its effect everywhere -- but Thorp suspected a totally different culprit. To understand it, you need to take a quick trip with me. 'Caution: Bumblebees at work' There's a shiny pool of disinfectant by the door to the greenhouse at Windset Farms in British Columbia, about 600 miles up the Pacific Coast from Mount Ashland. Two ominous signs are stuck to the door. "Warning: Strict biosecurity measures in effect." "Caution: Bumblebees at work." I got a tour from Ron Moes, a senior grower at Windset, which grows tomatoes and a host of other crops in greenhouses that seem big enough to contain neighborhoods. I was interested in the farm because it hires commercial bees -- raised in factories some 2,000 miles away and then flown way out here. "When we get the bees, they come in a box like this," Moes told me, pointing to what looked to be a box for legal files. Except that it had a bunch of bees buzzing around inside. "When I started, we pollinated everything by hand," he said. "We manually went around with the -- we call it a vibrator -- and we would touch every flower and pollinate." Now that the greenhouse has hired commercial bees, an industry that developed in the late 1990s, the process is more efficient and cheaper. "They're great workers," Moes said. "They put in a lot of time. They basically go from sunup to sunset, and they basically work seven days a week." Aside from the postapocalyptic feel of the place -- the bees are raised only for mass production and their colonies are incinerated after eight weeks of work -- perhaps there is nothing wrong with hiring bees for their pollination services. They can pollinate better than a "vibrator" -- so let them do their thing, right? But Thorp and other researchers are concerned about diseases that can spread anytime you have a bunch of homogenous livestock -- or bees -- in one place. Thorp fears greenhouse diseases, perhaps one called Nosema, infected wild bee populations -- and helped lead to the rapid decline of Franklin's bumblebee. Moes told me Windset takes ample precautions to prevent that sort of thing from happening. Aside from incinerating the hives, they trap queen bees inside the boxes permanently so that she can't start new colonies. The greenhouse is disinfected regularly, he said. Still, there are open panels in the ceiling of the greenhouse. And while Moes told me these bees have no interest in leaving so many pollination-ready tomato crops, it does seem possible one or two could sneak out. It's enough of a concern that conservationists like Jepsen, at the Xerces Society in Portland, want stiffer, disease-minded regulation of the commercial bee industry. She also wants commercial bees to only be local species, instead of shipped around the globe. 'What's the value of this?' Whatever the cause, Thorp is understandably alarmed by Franklin's bumblebee's disappearance. And he's sure humans are behind it somehow. As I walked up and down the meadows of Oregon with Thorp looking for this impossible-to-find insect, I thought about how we know so very little about the natural world. We live in concrete cities, deal only with managed forms of nature -- farms, lawns, medians. In a generation or two, will there be any Robbin Thorps left? Will anyone notice species like Franklin's are disappearing? Maybe it seems like this doesn't matter -- it's just one bee. Others will pick up the slack of pollinating wildflowers, and we have factory bees to pollinate fruits and vegetables now. To that, I'd offer two arguments. One is that farmers in part of China now have to pollinate apple crops by hand because wild bee populations have vanished entirely. True, the crop isn't gone. But what does that say about us? For the second, I'll give the floor to Thorp. I asked him to name the question about Franklin's that bothers him most. "I guess the question that irks me the most is, 'What's the value of this?'" Meaning, what's the economic value of this species. He hates that question because, yes, pollination services from nature are valued at billions per year, and, yes, the grocery store would look much sadder without bees and other pollinators. But that's missing the bigger truth. "I don't think you can put an economic value on a species," he told me, sitting in that meadow in Oregon he's returned to so many times since 2006. "To me they're all valuable. They're all priceless really ... Franklin's is one that I've had a lot of personal investment in, in many ways. And, yeah, I feel an attachment and kinship to it." Can you imagine what the world would be like if we all thought that way? We might not be on the verge of the sixth mass extinction in Earth's history -- something of dinosaur-ending magnitude. Anthony Barnosky, an expert on this from Stanford University, told me humans have about 20 years max to shape up before this mass extinction becomes inevitable. And by mass extinction he means three-quarters of all known species would be lost. Franklin's bumblebee should be a wake-up call -- a window into a dystopian future. It certainly was for me. 'Honeybee on buckwheat' I wasted the first day-and-a-half I spent with Thorp wondering what keeps this old man looking for this lost bee. It must be extinct, I thought. Give up. But then, somehow, I got hooked on this quest. The more I looked for Franklin's bumblebee, the more I learned about this meadow in Oregon, the rich lattice of flowers, bees, ferns and the like that make it wonderful and unique. And the more I learned the more I wanted to believe that Franklin's bumblebee might still be out there -- somewhere, against all odds. I know that probably sounds silly, but Thorp's endless vat of hope is infectious. If we're going to beat the sixth extinction, we have to believe it's possible. We need to believe species like Franklin's bumblebee matter. We should be pissed off they're missing. Late in the afternoon, I left Thorp and walked off on my own path. Thorp mutters notes into a voice recorder while he walks through the mountains looking for bees -- listing the flowers and the insects. I decided to try the same, speaking notes to my phone. "Honeybee on buckwheat. Yellow-faced whatever on buckwheat." "There's a big patch of this mint stuff that Franklin's bumblebee likes. It's kinda purple. Yellow faced bumblebee -- looks like -- just flew up. It's buzzing one of those flowers. I guess it's good there are bees here at all, but these are NOT the bees I'm looking for." "There's just this buzzing sound all around you. It kinda makes you insane." I got so into it that I actually started talking to the bees. "Do you guys know where Franklin is?" We never found it. I was crushed. Thorp was disappointed but hopeful. And as long as he can walk, he told me, he will continue the search.
Story highlights Government says donors gave $187 million over four years to support luxury lifestyles, private fundraisers Donated funds used for luxury cruises, trips to Las Vegas, shopping FTC and 50 state regulators say charities committed nationwide fraud Washington (CNN) In a rare joint action with attorneys general for each of the 50 states, the Federal Trade Commission says four cancer charities run by extended members of the same family conned donors out of $187 million from 2008 through 2012 and spent almost nothing to help actual cancer patients. JUST WATCHED Federal Trade Commission: Four cancer charities a sham Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Federal Trade Commission: Four cancer charities a sham 01:02 Each of the charities charged were the subject of extensive reporting by CNN in 2013. And in each instance, none of the four charities would comment. We were ordered out of the building at the Cancer Fund of America in Knoxville, Tennessee, and were the object of an obscene gesture by the CEO of The Breast Cancer Society in Mesa, Arizona. CNN Investigations Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. The Cancer Fund of America is run by James Reynolds Sr. His son James Reynolds Jr. is the CEO of the Breast Cancer Society. Another charity, the Children's Cancer Fund of America, is run by Rose Perkins, the ex-wife of the elder James Reynolds. He's also the CEO of the fourth charity, Cancer Support Services. The government says the charities claimed to provide direct support for cancer patients, breast cancer patients and children with cancer. "These were lies," the government's complaint says. Read More
Franchesca Ramsey is a social justice advocate, comedian, actress and writer who hosts the web series "Decoded" on MTV. She is the author of the new book "Well, That Escalated Quickly: Memoirs and Mistakes of an Accidental Activist." The views expressed here are solely the author's. (CNN) Social media isn't as quaint as it was when I started my Livejournal back in high school. Today, it's a business, an addiction, a privacy concern, a mouthpiece for world leaders. And it's a huge part of my life, personally and professionally. For me, social media isn't just about connecting with friends and sharing photos, it's a bigger, more tangled web that's led me to jobs working in television, speaking gigs around the country, and it's even helped me land my first book deal! Franchesca Ramsey But as easy as it is to make jokes and share stories online, sometimes I feel like my Wi-Fi connection is making it even harder to talk to people I know, and care about, in my real life. The truth is that the performative nature of social media can turn even the simplest conversations into a WWE style cage match with emojis and internet slang taking the place of pratfalls and over the top costumes. Instead, if more of us took time away from the social media town square, or better yet, talked in person, maybe we'd all handle our online disagreements differently. Until we all learn to do that, all I can offer is a cautionary tale, an example to illustrate how Facebook can make even the simplest exchange an opportunity for miscommunication. A few weeks ago an old friend from high school, let's call her "Allison," posted a giant wall of text on Facebook, warning young women to avoid "girl boss." At first glance I thought she was talking about the Netflix show "Girlboss," based on the book with the same title. That I could get behind. The show was awful and should never be spoken of again. But that wasn't it. Instead, Allison was arguing that when women refer to themselves as "girl bosses," it keeps men from taking them seriously. She capped it off by saying something along the lines of, "And ladies, don't call yourself 'girl' if you don't want your male co-workers calling you 'girl' too. Mic drop." The whole thing left me scratching my head. (And are we really ending posts with "mic drop" now?) So against my better judgment, I jumped into the comments. Read More
(CNN) Two years ago, Brendan Tyne pleaded with the Food and Drug Administration to approve a drug that he was hopeful could finally bring his mother some peace. She could no longer move without assistance and had fallen victim to the debilitating and frightening psychosis that haunts many people with Parkinson's disease. "She thinks there are people in the house and animals are trying to get her," he told an FDA advisory committee. He believed that a new medication called Nuplazid, made by San Diego-based Acadia Pharmaceuticals, was the answer. Nuplazid's review was being expedited because it had been designated a "breakthrough therapy" -- meaning that it demonstrated "substantial improvement" in patients with serious or life-threatening diseases compared to treatments already on the market. Congress created this designation in 2012 in an effort to speed up the FDA's approval process, which has long been criticized for being too slow. Around 200 drugs have been granted this designation since its creation. Still, to recommend approval, the advisory committee would have to find that the drug's potential benefits outweighed its risks for its intended patients. Some FDA officials concluded that Nuplazid's public health benefit was enough to merit approval of the drug. Their argument echoed the pleas of family members and caregivers like Tyne: It could possibly help patients with no other alternative. Several of the people who spoke said their loved ones had been transformed during the clinical trials, though some said there was no way for them to know whether they were on Nuplazid or a placebo. But the physician who led the FDA's medical review, Dr. Paul Andreason, warned that patients taking the drug during the company's clinical trials experienced serious outcomes, including death, at more than double the rate of those taking the placebo. The company's limited testing, he said, had not convinced him that the benefits outweighed the risks. I remember leaving really, really frustrated FDA advisory committee member While Tyne had heard about these risks, he said he "discounted death as a real statistical possibility" and was willing to try anything to help his mother. "I have two young children who love their grandmother," he told the committee. "If nothing is done to bring her back to some semblance of normalcy, my children will never remember their grandmother for who she is: a loving, funny, caring woman who has improved the lives of all of the loved ones who surround her. Please, I beg you, do not deprive my children and their grandmother of experiencing that love." 'You have to take it seriously' The committee voted 12-2 and recommended that the FDA approve Nuplazid for the treatment of Parkinson's disease psychosis based on a six-week study of about 200 patients . Three previous studies of the drug did not show that it was effective, Andreason said in his medical review, though they showed similar risk. Even some committee members who voted in favor of the drug expressed reservations, according to the hearing transcript. "I guess I'm hoping that the risks are going to be small, and I think the benefits for some of these people who are very sick and whose families are affected by this, I think they're probably willing to take that risk," one physician stated. Another committee member said she wouldn't have voted for the drug's approval if there had been a safe and effective alternative on the market. A third made a "plea" to the FDA to "consider a large observational study so we can ensure that, once it goes into real-world use, that the benefits will outweigh the risks." It hit the market in June 2016. As caregivers and family members rushed to get their loved ones on it, sales climbed to roughly $125 million in 2017. Tyne got his mother on the drug as soon as it became available. But after trying it for months, he says he was devastated to see that it was doing nothing to halt the awful progression of the disease, and her hallucinations became more frequent and harder to manage. "She has gone straight downhill to the point she really can't function at all," he said. Shortly after the drug's release, patients' family members, doctors and other health care professionals started reporting "adverse events" possibly linked to the medication -- including deaths, life-threatening incidents, falls, insomnia, nausea and fatigue. In more than 1,000 reports, patients continued to experience hallucinations while on Nuplazid. Creatures like cats and snakes can haunt patients with Parkinson's disease psychosis, as shown in Acadia's TV commercial. In November, an analysis released by a nonprofit health care organization, the Institute for Safe Medication Practices, warned that 244 deaths had been reported to the FDA between the drug's launch and March 2017. The organization also noted that hundreds of reports suggested the drug was "not providing the expected benefit" or potentially worsening the condition. Tracked by the FDA, these so-called "adverse event reports" document deaths, side effects and other issues, and can be made directly by consumers, caregivers and other medical professionals. Reports are submitted to either the FDA or to the drugmaker, which is required to pass along any it receives to the federal government. In some cases, the person filing the report is convinced the side effects were caused by the drug; in others, the reporter ascribes no cause but notes that the patient was on the drug. An adverse event report does not mean that a suspected medication has been ruled the cause of harm and is typically not the result of an official investigation. But the FDA uses the information to monitor potential issues with a drug and can take action as needed -- updating a medication's label, for instance, or restricting its use or pulling it off the market. After analyzing the adverse event data for Nuplazid, the Institute for Safe Medication Practices concluded that this batch of reports "reinforces the concerns of those who warned that (Nuplazid) might do more harm than good." Thomas Moore, senior scientist for drug safety and policy for the nonprofit, said the deaths are an "important warning signal" and warrant further review by the FDA -- and possible action, depending on what the review finds. Since the institute released its analysis, FDA data shows that the number of reported deaths has risen to more than 700. As of last June, Nuplazid was the only medication listed as "suspect" in at least 500 of the death reports. This is almost unheard of to have this many deaths reported...you have to take it seriously. Diana Zuckerman, president of the National Center for Health Research Physicians, medical researchers and other experts told CNN that they worried that the drug had been approved too quickly, based on too little evidence that it was safe or effective. And given these mounting reports of deaths, they say that more needs to be done to assess Nuplazid's true risks. "This is almost unheard of, to have this many deaths reported," said Diana Zuckerman, founder and president of the nonprofit thinktank the National Center for Health Research, adding that because reports are voluntary, potential problems may be underreported. "You just don't see this with most new drugs -- you don't see all these reports -- so you have to take it seriously." Acadia and the FDA maintain that the medication's potential benefits continue to outweigh the risks and help fill a desperate need. Psychosis affects up to 50% of the roughly one million Americans suffering from Parkinson's disease, according to the FDA, and Nuplazid is the first drug to be approved to treat this specific condition. Acadia said there are a number of reasons for the higher volume of death reports. Parkinson's disease psychosis is more commonly seen in patients in the most advanced stages of the disease, meaning they are already at a high risk of death. Plus, the company distributes Nuplazid through a network of specialty pharmacies that allow them to be in more frequent contact with both patients and caregivers -- meaning it is more likely to receive reports of death, which it is required to pass along to the FDA. "If you are actively and regularly engaging patients and/or caregivers, it is inevitable that you will see a higher number of adverse events reported, especially in an older, chronically ill patient population," the company said in a statement. It said its "benefit/risk assessment of Nuplazid remains unchanged," and it carefully monitors and regularly analyzes safety reports from both ongoing studies and adverse event reports. The company noted, for example, that since the drug's approval, two studies of a total of more than 300 patients with Alzheimer's disease did not find a difference in the number of deaths reported between Nuplazid and the placebo. The company also provided CNN with a statement from Dr. Joseph Jankovic, professor of neurology and an expert on movement disorders at Baylor College of Medicine. "I have accumulated a great deal of experience with this drug," Jankovic said in the statement. "While not all patients are completely satisfied, many of my patients have experienced marked improvement in their visual hallucinations, paranoia and other psychotic symptoms." In an interview this week, FDA commissioner Scott Gottlieb was asked by CNN's Dr. Sanjay Gupta about his thoughts on drugs that receive expedited reviews and then prompt concerns about safety once they become available, like Nuplazid. While Gottlieb didn't want to comment on a specific product, he said he is "familiar with the circumstances" and that it's very important for the agency to make sure it is "appropriately balancing" safety with medical need. He said this is a flexible standard, however, and there may be more tolerance for risk in situations where there is a significant need and patients don't have an alternative. JUST WATCHED FDA chief: Opioids are biggest crisis we face Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH FDA chief: Opioids are biggest crisis we face 03:54 "You've seen us take regulatory action recently in the post-market setting to limit the use of drugs when new safety concerns became known," he said. The FDA told CNN it will continue to monitor the adverse event reports and review the drug's safety. It added that Nuplazid's "complex safety profile," recognized at the time of its approval, resulted in a requirement that the medication carry a number of warnings on its label so that doctors could analyze potential risks and benefits before prescribing the drug. The cases reported so far, according to the FDA, typically involved elderly patients with advanced-stage Parkinson's disease who suffer from numerous medical conditions and often take other medications that can increase the risk of death. What should we investigate next? Email Blake Ellis and Melanie Hicken "Based on these data, the FDA has, at this time, not identified a specific safety issue that is not already adequately described in the product labeling," the agency said in a statement. The FDA has required antipsychotics to carry its most severe "black box" warning for the treatment of elderly dementia patients, after studies found that the medications increase the risk of death in this population. Between 50% and 80% of Parkinson's patients experience dementia as the disease worsens, according to the Alzheimer's Association. Because Nuplazid is a new kind of antipsychotic that targets a different receptor in the brain, its maker claims it comes with fewer toxic side effects. Even so, Nuplazid also carries a black box warning. Geriatric psychiatrist and former FDA medical officer Susan Molchan said that the number of deaths is alarming and questioned whether patients and their families are aware of the risks associated with the drug. To determine the true risks of Nuplazid, the researchers interviewed by CNN said, the FDA needs to require further scientific studies -- and not just rely on the reports, which are challenging to interpret and are not systematically collected. They also worried that, because the drug was already approved, these studies and any action by the FDA could take years. Hundreds of adverse event reports A CNN review of several hundred adverse event reports shows that the detail provided for each case varies widely and that thorough investigations are rarely conducted -- making it difficult to determine whether Nuplazid might have been involved in the deaths of already sick and elderly patients. In these reports, the physicians who prescribed the drug sometimes suggest that their patients likely died from complications from Parkinson's rather than because of Nuplazid. In other cases, it's unclear when exactly the patient started or stopped taking the medication. And in yet others, family members and sometimes doctors are convinced the drug contributed to the deaths. This is exactly what I thought I was going to happen. Dr. Paul Andreason, who led the FDA medical review of Nuplazid One report recounts the death of a 73-year-old woman in a long-term care facility who was taking Nuplazid. Just before 8 in the morning, a nurse noted that the woman was "sleepy." Shortly after, she was found unresponsive and without a pulse. Paramedics were not able to revive her and, less than an hour after the nurse's visit, she was pronounced dead. While her physician didn't believe her death was "related" to Nuplazid, her husband was convinced that it had played a role and paid for an autopsy. It showed only that she had pre-existing heart issues and died of cardiac arrest. In another report, an 89-year-old man was taken off the drug after experiencing a significant decline. His doctor blamed Nuplazid for his deteriorating condition. The patient died weeks later. In a third report, a woman flagged her husband's death to the FDA after he was taken to the hospital due to dehydration. After he passed away, she said, she was told by "someone at the hospital" that the death was connected to his use of Nuplazid. Acadia said it analyzed these reports and concluded that there "is nothing to suggest a causal relationship to Nuplazid." Acadia calculated a mortality rate for Nuplazid, which it said was lower than what you'd see in the general population of Parkinson's disease psychosis patients covered by Medicare. It calculated this using deaths reported to the FDA and what it considered a conservative estimate of patients on the drug, along with Medicare claims data. However, multiple experts interviewed by CNN said that this is an unreliable calculation since it is comparing apples to oranges. Widening the patient pool In the weeks after the Institute for Safe Medication Practices issued its report on the deaths, Acadia's stock price dropped by more than 20%. While many large investors remain bullish about the stock, some investment analysts have made public records requests to the FDA for the death reports. Currently, Nuplazid can cost nearly $100 a day, according to wholesale pricing data from First Databank . That can add up to more than $30,000 a year for a single patient, though the amount a patient actually pays depends on factors including individual insurance coverage. Acadia expects sales of Nuplazid to at least double this year. Acadia's TV commercial shows how frightening Parkinson's disease psychosis can be. The company, meanwhile, is forging ahead with clinical trials in an attempt to get the medication approved for use in a larger patient population: patients who have dementia-related psychosis. In October, the FDA granted its coveted breakthrough designation for this potential use as well, meaning it will also undergo a speedier review process. While a doctor can legally prescribe a drug for any reason, insurance companies may not approve it for uses that are not FDA-approved. So FDA approval to treat dementia patients would likely result in Nuplazid being prescribed to a much wider population, concerned medical experts told CNN. "You would certainly hope they don't approve it for anything else," said Zuckerman of the National Center for Health Research, based on the current research and FDA adverse event reports. "If they're going to approve it for another group of patients that is much, much larger -- that would be unconscionable. "That is something they should absolutely not do given these unanswered questions about risk." 'I wouldn't have gotten my hopes up' Roughly two years have passed since that FDA meeting, where family members and caregivers -- some of whom traveled there on Acadia's dime -- gathered with medical experts to debate the merits and potential risks of Nuplazid. Andreason, the physician who led the FDA's medical review of Nuplazid, no longer works for the agency. He said that while he stands by the warnings he made at the time, he understands that other antipsychotics used to treat Parkinson's patients also come with an increased risk of death and that, when patients have a debilitating disease like Parkinson's, physicians and caregivers may choose a medication that improves quality of life even if it could also shorten life expectancy. He said that he was not surprised to hear about the reports of death. Knowing what I know now -- that it didn't work at all -- I wouldn't have gotten my hopes up. Son of Parkinson's patient "This is exactly what I thought was going to happen," he said. "We were going to get a burst of reports of serious adverse events and deaths." Dr. Stephanie Fox-Rawlings, a senior fellow at the National Center for Health Research who spoke against the drug's approval at the FDA committee meeting, recently told CNN she understands how desperate families in these situations are, but she does not think Nuplazid is the answer based on her review of Acadia's public research. She and Zuckerman said that, after previous studies didn't show it was effective, the drugmaker changed the way the medication's ability to improve psychosis was measured, which resulted in a positive outcome. Acadia said its studies have had different objectives and all of them have used "consistent, appropriate, and validated assessment methodology." "If patients know there is some level of benefit, they can judge their risk," said Fox-Rawlings. "But if we don't even know that it does work, how do you even judge that? It's kind of a false hope." Kim Witczak was the consumer representative on the FDA committee evaluating Nuplazid. She and the patient representative were the only two members to vote against its approval. She still can't believe it's on the market. "I remember leaving really, really frustrated," she said. CNN reached two of the three family members who petitioned for Nuplazid's approval at the meeting, despite having had no experience with the drug or its clinical trials, to ask whether they tried the medication once it hit the market. One of these was Elaine Casavant. Despite the "staggering cost" of the medication, she said, she was quick to get her husband on it. But after three months, he showed no improvement and they stopped the medication. She has heard success stories, however, and remains optimistic that the drug could be helping certain people. The other person was Tyne. The 43-year-old New Jersey resident works in New York and visits his mother every weekend at a nursing home in the Bronx. Tyne has attempted to move on from the disappointment of Nuplazid, but he still gets frustrated talking about it. "Knowing what I know now -- that it didn't work at all -- I wouldn't have gotten my hopes up," he said. But he doesn't regret trying. "If there was something that could possibly help my mom and I didn't do it, I wouldn't be able to look at myself in the mirror." Do you have information to share about Nuplazid or other drugs targeting the elderly? Email us watchdog@cnn.com.
Rajkumar Hirani and Ranbir Kapoor launched the trailer of the Sanjay Dutt biopic, titled Sanju, in a Juhu multiplex in Mumbai on Wednesday. The event saw loud cheers from the media fraternity that had gathered to attend the trailer launch. Kapoor plays Dutt film that has been penned by Hirani and his frequent collaborator, Abhijat Joshi (3 Idiots, PK). While one expected the film to bear a somber tone, given the tumultuous life that Dutt has led, Hirani has instead given the trailer a light-hearted comedic treatment. The 3-minute trailer touches on key events in Dutt's life -- his battle with drug addiction, the many women he slept with (it says the number was over 300) and his jail term for illegally possessing AK 56 rifles. Kapoor looks like he has seamlessly merged with Dutt's persona, right from body language to voice modulation, this looks like a performance that can further solidify the actor's position as one of the best of our time. Other than him, the film features an ensemble that includes Sonam Kapoor, Dia Mirza, Paresh Rawal, Vicky Kaushal and Manisha Koirala (who plays his mother, Nargis Dutt). Anushka Sharma will also be seen in a special appearance, as his biographer. The film is slated to release on June 29. Watch the trailer here.
Ernest Owens is the editor of Philadelphia magazine's G Philly and CEO of Ernest Media Empire, LLC. He has written for USA Today, NBC News, BET, HuffPost and several other major publications. Follow him on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. The views expressed here are solely his. (CNN) My initial reaction to ABC's decision to cancel "Roseanne": Well, it's about damn time. The right-wing provocateur's racist tweet comparing former Obama-advisor staffer Valerie Jarrett to an ape is hardly her first offense; she said the same of Susan Rice in 2013 in a since-deleted tweet, according to Salon. Ernest Owens ABC should never have been willing to work with an offensive comedian whose horrific statements were well known. But now I'm conflicted on killing off a show that had a phenomenal cast that was refreshing to watch. Laurie Metcalf, Sara Gilbert, John Goodman and a diverse array of new castmates and writers brought something thoughtful to a show that was unfortunately under the shadow of Roseanne Barr. While Barr's show definitely earned some of the highest primetime ratings in years , terminating her contract proved that the company has put its reputation above the numbers. ABC has a roster that boasts hit shows from diverse writers and talent such as "Blackish," "How To Get Away With Murder" and "Fresh Off The Boat." Having a show with a star as polarizing as Barr clashed with the efforts the network was trying to make to appeal to new audiences. The network could use this opportunity to revive the show without Barr. Many popular shows have killed off problematic characters without penalizing an all-star cast. Read More
Please enable Javascript to watch this video LINDEN, N.J. — One of the busiest roadways in New Jersey was shut down all day on Wednesday, and is not expected to be fully reopened until Thursday morning's rush following a massive gasoline spill that affected Highways 1 and 9 along with a major waterway nearby. Around 8:30 a.m., a semi-trailer tanker truck made a left turn at the intersection of Route 1 and 9 and North Stiles Street, and rolled over onto its side, hard, police said. So hard, that the impact cracked open the truck's payload tank. "The tanker was carrying about 8,500 gallons," said Chief Joseph Dooley of the Linden Fire Department. "It had filled up at a local facility so that the entire load was there and began to drain." Some of the gasoline poured right into nearby sewer drains that flow to nearby Morses Creek. It, in turn, flows to waterways that lead to the ocean. The key mission was to stop the gasoline from getting far, first responders said. They set up floating berms in the creek to contain the gasoline. They also evacuated the Crown Hotel, which is located immediately adjacent to the creek. A half-block from the creek are houses and another inn, called the Bentley Motel. In both the neighborhood and at the motel, authorities gave specific instructions. "There's a lot of vapor in the air," Bentley Motel worker Tom Shek said. "They told everybody not to smoke here." Katrice Diggs lives in a home a few doors over from the motel. "All it takes is a match or cigarette," she told PIX11 News, for the situation to become far more dangerous. Someone unaware could "drop a cigarette, and then what?" On lampposts around the area, no-smoking signs were posted prominently, and there was little evidence that anybody was violating the order. As for the crash scene, it took three heavy duty tow trucks to upright the tanker. That was one of the main challenges for reopening the roadway, but having it return to normal could take many hours into the night and beyond, according to the fire chief. "We will get this road opened as soon as we can [do it] safely," Chief Dooley said. That overturned tanker is why why Rte. 9 in Linden, NJ may remain closed thru tomorrow AM. 8,500 gal. spill has forced evacuations. pic.twitter.com/rjaxALyzRt — James Ford (@jamesfordtv) May 30, 2018
We've all been there: you weigh yourself one day and feel super fit and fine, and you do the same the next day and you're three kilos heavier. What's the deal? Could you maybe not, body? Seriously, is that extra slice of banana bread really to blame? Don't worry, everyone. There are a few reasonable explanations as to why the scales said you gained weight all of a sudden. PHEW. "I personally don't recommend my clients weigh themselves daily and, in fact, I ask them to limit it to weekly or even fortnightly -- if at all," nutritionist Pip Reed told The Huffington Post Australia. Self-worth should not be determined by, or dependent on, a number on a scale. "Daily weigh-ins can create unnecessary stress, fixation, pressure and even obsession which is not healthy for anyone." Dietitian Robbie Clark agrees, saying constantly weighing yourself is a bad representation of your true weight, and can warp your sense of self-worth. "I do not recommend my clients do this. By seeing daily fluctuations of increases and losses, it creates an overwhelming fixation and burden," Clark told HuffPost Australia. Your weight doesn't define who you are. "For some, when they become fixated on the scale number, it becomes a marker of their self-worth. If the scale shows a 'good' (lower) number, they feel better about themselves. However, if the scale shows a 'bad' (higher) number, they may feel like they have failed. "Their entire mood becomes dependent on a number and an entire day can result in complete negativity and despair if they are not happy with what they see on the scales." It's no wonder, then, that constantly weighing yourself can lead to unhealthy, obsessive eating and exercise habits. "Fixating on weight can be detrimental to your emotional wellbeing as you cause yourself unnecessary stress, obsessing about any slight fluctuation that may not be related to how much you are eating and exercising at all," Reed said. "Scales can create an artificial sense of confidence for some, and they can also crush it, especially if you have set specific weight loss goals," Clark added. "People may start judging food or fitness choices against a number on the scale, which is extremely unhealthy." "Weighing yourself does not take into account muscle mass and growth, fluid retention, hormones and period cycles for females, and may instead cause someone on a weight loss journey to give up as they are not seeing results on a daily basis," Reed said. "Not only does your weight change every day, it also changes at different times throughout a single day. So there is no point weighing yourself every day -- and definitely not multiple times a day," Clark said. Here are six reasonable explanations as to why the scales said you gained (or lost) weight all of a sudden. 1. You have gained muscle mass If you've been training hard and get on the scales and see you've gained a few kilos (but still feel the same weight, or slimmer), chances are you've gained muscle mass, which is much more dense than fat. "A kilogram is a kilogram -- both a kilogram of muscle and a kilogram of fat weigh the same. However, one takes up significantly less space," Clark explained. "Muscle, by design, is denser and more fibrous in nature, as it serves to help support and move your entire body. Since dense muscle tissue takes up less space than fat, it's possible you may weigh the same (or even more) yet appear slimmer than another person with the same weight, a similar height and frame because of the difference in your body composition." If you've been training hard and eating well, see your muscle weight gain as an achievement. In simple terms: a kilogram of muscle occupies less space than a kilogram of fat, hence the illusion of gaining weight or 'fat'. "So while you may be losing weight, if you're working out you're inevitably putting muscle on too which is going to help fire up your metabolism, but may not give the whole picture on the scales as you find yourself either weighing the same, or sometimes weighing more, despite having lost fat mass," Reed said. 2. You are a menstruating woman Ladies, if you've ever felt heavier or bigger at certain times of the month, you're not being paranoid. A woman's weight tends to fluctuate due to changes in hormones. "Females in particular are prone to daily weight fluctuations due to ovulation and periods, often causing fluid retention and therefore weight gain, and this constant rise and fall on the scales is not indicative of true weight," Reed said. "Some women put on up to four kilograms in fluid pre-period and even at ovulation too, and in this case you should certainly seek out a healthcare practitioner who specialises in hormone balance to assist with this issue." Thanks, hormones. 3. You've drunk fluid or eaten food That litre of water you just drank? Yep, that accounts for one kilogram of weight. The same goes for food which you have just eaten. "The scales may simply fluctuate based on how much fluid you have drunk that day or even how much you have eaten," Reed said. 4. You're wearing heavy clothes Likewise, if you weighed yourself naked two days ago, and now you're at your friend's house in your winter getup and boots, the scales will reflect this. "And of course, wearing clothing will cause fluctuations. Weighing yourself first thing in the morning, after you have been to the bathroom and are naked, is going to give you a more accurate reading," Reed said. "However, again, you should only do this every week or fortnight, so as not to become fixated and disheartened by a few hundred grams here or there of fluctuation. Weigh yourself naked, at the same time, on the same day of the week, on the same scales. 5. Your diet is high in sodium If your diet is full of salty foods, this can cause water retention and thus increase the number on those scales. "The reason these weight fluctuations occur is because of body fluid fluctuations -- your body might retain water from a high sodium consumption, or you may not have gone to the bathroom yet," Clark said. 6. You've just had a sweaty workout session "On the other end of the scale (pun intended), people who weigh themselves after a big gym session may see that they have lost weight," Clark said. "This loss, however, is more likely to be fluid loss through sweat rather than direct fat loss." Intense exercise and sweating can make it appear as though you've lost weight. How often should we really weigh ourselves? According to Clark and Reed, maximum once per week -- and not with the scales you think. "If losing weight or gaining muscle mass is your goal, weighing in weekly with scales that are going to give a better indication of muscle versus fat versus fluid mass is going to be more helpful (if you have these type of scales available) than a daily weigh in," Reed said. "It's important to also include measurements to get a more accurate assessment of your body changes. The best weigh in or body assessment you can do for yourself is to use a DEXA Scan (body fat analysis) once a month if you are really interested in your data, until you reach your goals." Clark also urges everyone to implement consistency when weighing yourself so the reading is accurate. "Once per week is enough to help you stay accountable without becoming obsessed, which should be at the same time, on the same day of the week, wearing similar clothing (or none at all), and most importantly, on the same scale," Clark said. "By weighing yourself once per week, you allow time for the scales to actually show weight (fat) loss. Instead of focusing on the number, focus on how healthy you FEEL. "When talking about reducing body fat, the general population isn't well informed about what is considered to be a safe, healthy and sustainable loss and over what timeframe. A healthy goal is striving for 0.5 kilograms to one kilogram of fat loss per week. The ability to achieve this, however, is determined by many factors." And in saying all this, it's important not to forget: our weight is just a number and it doesn't define who we are. "My advice to people is that self-worth should not be determined by, or dependent on, a number on a scale. They should be determining their health by other numbers and factors such as blood pressure, cholesterol, insulin and inflammatory markers," Clark said. "Regardless of whether you fall into this metabolically healthy category or not, these factors are far more indicative of overall health status than the numbers on the scale, and not to mention potentially lifesaving. "When you make healthy lifestyle choices, you can see dramatic, long-lasting changes in these particular numbers, which should be motivation in itself to keep pushing on with healthy eating and exercise habits. "Other markers for better health that people should be looking at are improved energy levels, better sleep, clearer skin, better bowel movements, better sex and feeling happier and healthier." If you need help in a crisis, call Lifeline on 13 11 14. For further information about eating disorders, contact the Butterfly Foundation on 1800 33 4673 or talk to your GP, local health professional or someone you trust. Click below to follow HuffPost Australia on Snapchat!
Melissa DePino is co-founder of From Privilege to Progress. She is a principal of Leapfrog Group, a branding and marketing firm for non-profits, and the co-author of a novel, " Pretty Little World ," and "Neighbors (The Real Thing Collection)." The views expressed here are solely hers. (CNN) I do not consider myself to be an avid sports fan, but last fall, an NBA coach got my attention with remarks he made that were shared on Twitter. It was Gregg "Pop" Popovich, the seemingly surly but universally beloved coach of the San Antonio Spurs talking about race, specifically white privilege. "We still have no clue of what being born white means," he said . I recall thinking how rare it was to hear a white person like me own that privilege and speak frankly and publicly about racial injustice. On April 12, I was in a Starbucks in the Rittenhouse Square neighborhood of Philadelphia and watched as two young black men, Rashon Nelson and Donte Robinson, were taken away in handcuffs for doing what is completely normal for me -- sitting in a coffee shop waiting for a friend, without having ordered anything. The woman next to me and a few others started recording the incident, and a few of us, including their friend, began to confront both the Starbucks employee and the police, trying to explain that the men hadn't done anything. As we watched Nelson and Robinson being taken away in a patrol car, I tweeted the video with the caveat to the other bystanders that I didn't have a lot of followers, but it was worth trying anyway. Within 24 hours my tweet had gone viral and the video had attracted over 10 million views, putting these young men's trauma on display to the world. JUST WATCHED Witness: This doesn't happen to white people Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: This doesn't happen to white people 01:21 The impact of this event is still unfolding. For Starbucks, it's taken the form of new policy allowing people to use its bathrooms and sit in its cafes and patios without buying anything. It's also visible in the fact that on Tuesday, employees in 8,000 Starbucks stores and their corporate office will step away from their jobs to undergo training -- devised by civil rights leaders like Bryan Stevenson, Sherrilyn Ifill, and Heather McGhee -- "designed to address implicit bias." The training will also be part of the onboarding process for new hires. I am cautiously optimistic about Starbucks' ongoing efforts to address this incident and set an example for corporate America. That said, my focus is on the rarity of Pop's honest public remarks about racism, and the paradox that his (and my) white privilege gives us the freedom to speak up. What's become apparent to me through this experience is that not nearly enough of us do -- and I'm looking especially at self-proclaimed progressives in favor of racial, economic and social justice. These are the folks who need to be using their voices, their privilege, to amplify conversations about systemic racism and "living while black" that are largely only happening in the black community. I don't just think this on the basis of my own personal experience, although that experience has certainly been eye-opening, but on data. If black Americans feel like they have been preaching to the choir, particularly on social media, it's because they have been. According to a 2016 study by PRRI (Public Religion Research Institute) , 91% of white Americans' social networks are white and 83% of black Americans' social networks are black. Another study, also in 2016, found : "Black social media users (68%) are roughly twice as likely as whites (35%) to say that at least some of the posts they see on social networking sites are about race or race relations. When it comes to their own postings, a similar racial gap exists. Among black social media users, 28% say most or some of what they post is about race or race relations; only 8% of whites say the same. On the other hand, roughly two-thirds (67%) of whites who use social media say that none of things they post or share pertain to race." There is an important opportunity for white Americans to bridge the gap and share information about racism in America in their circles of influence -- and in particular, their social media networks. Not just about dramatic events like the one at Starbucks, but of the everyday indignities, discrimination and marginalization that are part of the fabric of racism in 2018 America. JUST WATCHED Why is Starbucks training only U.S. workers on bias? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why is Starbucks training only U.S. workers on bias? 01:16 I was asked recently in an interview by Toure if the Starbucks experience has changed me. My answer was that It has, in a number of ways. Most importantly, as of April 12, I was officially finished tiptoeing around the race conversation that so many in my liberal white circle of friends and acquaintances have avoided for so long. Even though I know I still hold biases I have yet to fully address, even though I know it will feel uncomfortable to many, I am done. It took this incident for me to finally admit to an African-American friend who I have known and loved for 20 years that I have held back talking with her about race because I was worried she would judge me or that I would offend her. People of color have been fighting against racism for hundreds of years, but much of white America has been blind to or complicit in it. Fifty years ago, Martin Luther King Jr., in his Letter from Birmingham Jail, expressed his disappointment in "white moderates" and their "appalling silence" about racism. That silence is still too prevalent today, on Twitter and everywhere else. After the incident, I connected with a young black woman, Michelle Saahene, who was the first person to speak up in Starbucks that day. It is her voice we hear on the video, and it was her bravery in speaking up that motivated me to act. Together we have started a project called From Privilege to Progress. It asks white allies to #ShowUp against racism and social injustice by speaking out, sharing and amplifying the voices of people of color on social media and in real life. In addition to social media campaigns, we will connect people to existing organizations already doing the work of anti-racism so they can get involved and take real action. When white allies understand and use their privilege to show up, we can give the conversation more attention in places that really need to hear it, which can lead to more action and hopefully to lasting change. Racism needs to be fought from the inside out, together with people of color, with them in the lead and their voices believed and listened to. Michelle and I watched our combined effort spark a public dialogue among people who don't normally talk about what it's like to be black in America, which hopefully led to many more one-on-one conversations that might not have happened otherwise. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Michelle and I saw that what we did together that day worked. With more of us paying attention and showing up, we believe it can keep working. We hope you will join us and #ShowUp. This is a fight that needs all of us.
(CNN) Car accidents, falls, equipment mishaps and other nonbattle incidents caused about a third of all injuries sustained by nearly 30,000 US service members during three military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, according to research published Wednesday in the medical journal JAMA Surgery. These accidents also claimed the lives of more than one in 10 injured service members deployed to those conflicts, the study found. "Nonbattle injury among deployed forces may have different possible causes, deplete medical resources, increase costs, decrease mission capabilities, and result in long-term disability for injured service members," wrote the research authors, led by Dr. Tuan D. Le of the US Army Institute of Surgical Research at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio. Falls top the list Injuries unrelated to combat accounted for 13% of hospital admissions during the Vietnam War and 25% during both Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm, Le and his co-authors noted. And half of all US service member deaths during Operation Desert Shield were caused by nonbattle injuries. Understanding the possible causes of injuries in Afghanistan and Iraq could help create better safety policies in the military, they said. Le and his co-authors mined the Department of Defense Trauma Registry for data concerning 29,958 service members injured in three military operations conducted in Iraq and Afghanistan from January 1, 2003, through December 31, 2014. Nonbattle injuries accounted for 34.1% of all injuries and 11.5% of all deaths among service members admitted to a military medical facility during the study period, the researchers found. Rates of injuries unrelated to combat were higher among women than among men: about 63%, vs. 33%. A higher proportion of nonbattle injuries occurred among members of the Air Force (66.3%) and Navy (48.3%) than in members of the Army (34.7%) and Marine Corps (25.7%). Injuries unrelated to combat included falls (21.3%), motor vehicle crashes (18.8%), machinery or equipment accidents (12.6%), blunt objects (10.8%), gunshot wounds (7.1%) and sports (6.8%). Blunt trauma was the diagnosis for more than two-thirds of all injured service members. 'Wake-up call' Dr. Todd E. Rasmussen, an associate dean of research at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Maryland, wrote in a commentary that the new study is "a wake-up call.' Rasmussen, who was not involved in the research, added that the three leading causes of nonbattle injuries -- falls, motor vehicle accidents, and machinery or equipment incidents -- are mostly preventable. "Not to be overlooked are successes identified in this analysis, such as the relatively low rate of unintentional firearm injury," he said. "The fact that only 728 service members sustained an inadvertent firearm injury during a 12-year period in which hundreds of thousands of troops were deployed with a great assortment of weaponry is notable." He believes that the low rate of this type of injury "points to the professionalism of military members as it relates to possessing firearms as well as the success of training and safety initiatives." "Armed with this information," Rasmussen wrote, the military should make new or increased efforts to reduce accidental injuries among service members. Dr. Robert Glatter, an emergency physician at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York, said the study supports research showing that accidents, in particular falls and motor vehicle crashes, continue to be a leading cause of injuries unrelated to combat. "While both world wars and Korea dealt with infectious diseases as the main reasons for nonbattle injuries, [accidental wounds] became the overriding concern starting with the Vietnam War," said Glatter, who was not involved in the new research. The study's main weakness is that it looks at data collected in the past, so poor reporting of information may lead to inaccuracies, he said. Overall, though, the message is clear. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "What we're seeing in civilian life is exactly what's happening to people in the military. They have the same issues we have," he said. "The military needs to focus on keeping troops healthy while avoiding injury -- a task easier said than done." In particular, the young and athletic service members should avoid distraction with smartphones and other electronic devices while performing noncombat tasks, Glatter said: "Getting proper amounts of sleep and staying well-hydrated can also help to reduce the risk of noncombat injury." Le and his co-authors agree that military safety needs attention: "We propose that for future conflicts, rates of nonbattle injuries should be closely monitored and targeted safety interventions should be rapidly deployed."
Story highlights Masked men doused Youssif with gas and set him on fire in 2007 After his story aired, CNN viewers donated to his cause Youssif had extensive facial reconstruction and counseling in the United States Arwa Damon is a senior international correspondent based in CNN's Istanbul bureau. In April, she received the World of Children's 2017 Crisis Award for her work starting INARA, a charity which aids children affected by war. While at the ceremony, Damon had the chance to spend time with a young man who holds a special place in her heart. The opinions in this article are solely those of the author. (CNN) "Superman is one of my favorite superheroes because he also struggled to fit in and was different, but in the end he was accepted and made his mark and I can somehow relate to that," said Youssif to those gathered at the World of Children gala in Los Angeles in April. Now in his early teens, he looked so handsome, confident and unwavering. This was the same young man we had met a decade ago who was sullen, angry and mad at a world he was too young to even understand. "All children should have a chance to make their dreams come true," Youssif said at the conclusion of his speech. JUST WATCHED Youssif's story captured the hearts of millions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Youssif's story captured the hearts of millions 02:24 The beautifully dressed crowd burst into a standing ovation, and I was there on the stage next to him. I couldn't help the tears that stung my eyes. Tears of pride and awe. Tears at the injustice he had suffered and the thought that no one, no child should ever go through anything like he did. Tears of hope stemming from the knowledge that we can still make a difference if we unite. Read More
It’s been a whirlwind, trans-Atlantic romance spanning just under two years and today, Prince Harry and American actress Meghan Markle will make it official. In a meticulously planned ceremony to take place at St George’s Chapel in Windsor Castle at midday, Markle will arrive by car with her mother. She will walk part of the aisle alone before being joined by her soon-to-be father-in-law Prince Charles for the final stretch, after her own father pulled out at the last minute due to health problems. In details of the ceremony released overnight, the couple confirmed that their vows do not promise to “obey”, modern language has replaced the “thee” and “thou” of tradition, and their music choices have a heavy American influence, including Stand By Me and This Little Light of Mine performed by a gospel choir. And in a nod to the drama surrounding the uncertainty of Markle’s fathers role in the ceremony, his name still appears on the order of service, which was printed days before he pulled out. It’s been a turbulent few days for the couple, which follows a relationship that has blossomed mostly in the glare of intense media scrutiny. But it wasn’t always the case. The couple were set up by a mutual female friend in 2016, and met on a blind date in London that summer. During their engagement interview in November 2017, Markle, who at the time was appearing in the US TV series Suits, admitted: “I didn’t know much about him.” Markle said she asked her friend: “‘I have one question’, which was, ‘Well, is he nice?’ Because if he wasn’t kind, it just didn’t seem like it would make sense and so we went and we… met for a drink and I think very quickly into that we said, ‘Well, what are we doing tomorrow? We should meet again’.” SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter YouTube Pinterest Snapchat Instagram CLOSE Harry said he knew very little about his prospective date too, but claimed he was “beautifully surprised” when she walked into the room. PA Wire/PA Images The couple attending the Commonwealth Service at Westminster Abbey with the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge After another date, Harry, grandson of Queen Elizabeth and sixth in line to the throne, revealed: “I managed to persuade her to come and join me in Botswana and we – we camped out with each other under the stars, we spent – she came and joined me for five days out there, which was absolutely fantastic. “So, then we were really by ourselves which was crucial to me to make sure we had a chance to get to know each other.” Still off the press radar, the early months of their relationship were spent flying between the star’s former home in Toronto, Canada, where Markle filmed Suits, and the prince’s cottage at Kensington Palace, London. Doug Peters/EMPICS Entertainment A photo-call to announce their engagement in November 2017 But Markle, who has also appeared in CSI: Miami, sci-fi show Fringe and movies such as Get Him To The Greek and Horrible Bosses, maintained: “We never went longer than two weeks without seeing each other, even though we were obviously doing a long-distance relationship. So it’s… we made it work.” Harry revealed that he proposed during a cosy night at home over a roast chicken. “She didn’t even let me finish, she said ‘Can I say yes, can I say yes?’ and then there were hugs.” Markle recalled: “Just a cosy night, it was – what we were doing just roasting chicken and having …trying to roast a chicken and … just an amazing surprise. “It was so sweet and natural and very romantic. He got on one knee.” Harry added: “The fact that I fell in love with Meghan so incredibly quickly was sort of confirmation to me that all the stars were aligned, that everything was perfect.” PA Wire/PA Images Markle's engagement ring was made using two diamonds from Diana, Princess of Wales' personal collection and a central diamond sourced from Botswana With a new royal wedding on the cards, the couple were thrust firmly into the spotlight, and even Harry was shocked at the attention they began to receive. “I tried… to warn you as much as possible but I think both of us were totally surprised by the reaction after the first five, six months which we had to ourselves, of what actually happened from then,” the prince said. Harry had earlier taken the extraordinary step of issuing a statement in which he made clear his distress over the media’s treatment of her, with very strong language referring to the ”sexism” and “racism” to which she has been subjected. In recent weeks the media attention has focused on Markle’s father, Thomas, who appeared in pictures in a number of British newspapers which it later emerged were staged, prompting him to drop out of the wedding, telling celebrity news website TMZ that he did not want to “embarrass the royal family or his daughter.” Shortly afterwards, it looked as if the award-winning lighting director could still attend his daughter’s nuptials, but it later emerged that doctors would not allow Mr Markle to leave hospital so soon after undergoing heart surgery on Wednesday. Much has also been made of the fact this will be Markle’s second marriage, having married producer Trevor Engelson in September 2011 after dating him for six years. Their wedding took place in Jamaica and was celebrated with a barbecue on the beach. The couple split in May 2013. PA Wire/PA Images The Prince and his bride-to-be at their first official engagement together at a Terrence Higgins Trust World AIDS Day charity fair Markle, who was a global ambassador for World Vision Canada and campaigns for gender equality through her work as a woman’s advocate for the UN, has had to adjust her lifestyle in the run-up to becoming a royal. The lifestyle blog she ran focused around articles on self-empowerment and messages of positivity, in which she opened up about her life, loves, favourite foods and even her celebrity hairdresser, but it was closed down nine months after she started dating Harry, leaving fans the message: “Don’t ever forget your worth – as I’ve told you time and time again: you, my sweet friend, you are enough.” Markle has also left the series Suits and deleted her Twitter and Instagram accounts. Upon her marriage, she will become a full-time royal and start charitable interests afresh with Harry. “I don’t see it as giving anything up. I just see it as change,” she said. As for whether the couple plan to have children, Harry said: “One step at a time and hopefully we’ll start a family in the near future.”
(CNN) A 5.2 magnitude earthquake hit Mexico Sunday, about 11 miles southeast of Xalpatlahuac, Mexico, according to the US Geological Survey . The quake in southwestern Mexico was felt as far away as Mexico City about 220 miles (nearly 360 kilometers) away. In Mexico City, sirens sounded and telephone poles shook in the street, according to witnesses. A Mexican government official said there is no immediate reports of significant damage. There was no tsunami warning issued. A woman embraces a boy during a powerful earthquake in Mexico City on February 16, 2018. This quake comes three months after a 7.2 earthquake struck southeastern Mexico in February , with the epicenter in the state of Oaxaca, according to the USGS. Emergency authorities in Oaxaca reported "only material damage and no loss of human life" during the earthquake. Read More
Lagos, Nigeria (CNN) Women and girls who have fled terrorist group Boko Haram are being raped by Nigerian soldiers, starved and forced to exchange food for sex, according to claims in a new report by human rights group Amnesty International. Thousands of these women have died because of lack of food in camps for internally displaced people in Nigeria's northeast after they were rescued from Boko Haram, Amnesty says. In the report titled "They betrayed us, " it is alleged that five women said they were raped by soldiers in late 2015 and early 2016 in a displacement camp in Bama, Borno state. 'Boko Haram wives' Women interviewed by Amnesty said they were beaten and called "Boko Haram wives" by security officials whenever they complained about their treatment. The report says that members of the Nigerian military and a local vigilante group Civilian Joint Task Force (Civilian JTF) "separated women from their husbands and confined them in remote 'satellite camps' where they were raped, sometimes in exchange for food." Ten women in the Bama camp told Amnesty they were forced to date security officials to get food. One woman said a member of the JTF vigilante group raped her after he brought her food, telling her: "I gave you these things, if you want them, we have to be husband and wife." "Sex in these highly coercive circumstances is always rape, even when physical force is not used, and Nigerian soldiers and civilian JTF members have been getting away it," Osai Ojigho, Director of Amnesty International Nigeria said. "They act like they don't risk sanction, but the perpetrators and their superiors who have allowed this to go unchallenged have committed crimes under international law and must be held to account." Deadly terror group Boko Haram, described as the third deadliest terror group by the Global Terrorism Index, has unleashed waves of brutal attacks across parts of northern Nigeria, bombing schools, churches and mosques and kidnapping women and children in a conflict that spans nearly a decade. The conflict has killed thousands of people and also internally displaced two million people, according to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre. However, the Nigerian army claims it has technically defeated Boko Haram and retaken territories seized by the militant group in the northeast. Members of its troops recently rescued 1,000 hostages, mostly women and children, from the militant's camps in Borno State, it said. Hundreds of women along with their children have been held in overcrowded centers in northern Nigeria since 2015. Amnesty said it had collected evidence that thousands of people have starved to death in displacement camps since 2015. In the report, the women alleged that 15 to 30 people died each day between 2015 and 2016 due to lack of food in these camps. The human rights group said satellite images of an expanding graveyard in one of the camps during the time confirmed their testimonies. In a 2016 report , another rights group, Human Rights Watch, said it had documented 43 cases of sexual violence against women by soldiers in displacement camps in northern Nigeria, forcing the Nigeria government to investigate. Propaganda Nigerian army spokesman John Agim denied the allegations in the Amnesty report, branding them "propaganda." He said the army hasn't been deployed to displacement camps, which he said are run by the police, local vigilante groups and NGOs. "I wonder where Amnesty interviewed women who said they saw soldiers in these camps hoarding food and raping women?" Agim asked. Agim accused the human rights group of republishing claims that had been investigated by the Nigerian government and had been found to be false. "Amnesty wrote the same allegations in a report in 2015 and it was investigated then and found not to be true. Why are they presenting them in 2018 after investigations? It is all propaganda and when they continue to propagate these reports, it assumes the property of truth when its not refuted," Agim told CNN. "Amnesty does not want our war against terrorism to finish; the Nigerian military maintains this position," he said. "Their reports on human right violations is to stop the selling of weapons to the Nigerian military by the American government and others and that approach is not working." "The Nigerian army just rescued 1,000 Boko Haram captives, that is a good development, why is it not reflected in the report if they are being fair?" Agim added. Broken promises For it's part, Amnesty said there has been "no tangible action to address the problem and no one appeared to have been brought to justice," despite promises by the Nigerian government to investigate reports of alleged abuse in these camps since 2015. "It is absolutely shocking that people who had already suffered so much under Boko Haram have been condemned to further horrendous abuse by the Nigerian military," Amnesty's Ojigho, said. The organization called on the Nigerian government to make public the findings from a panel investigating the military's compliance with human rights provisions set up by Vice President Yemi Osibanjo. Many women had testified before the panel whose report was submitted to Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari in February, the human rights group said. "Now is the time for President Buhari to demonstrate his frequently expressed commitment to protect the human rights of displaced people in north-east Nigeria. The only way to end these horrific violations is by ending the climate of impunity in the region and ensuring that no one can get away with rape or murder," Ojigho added. "The Nigerian authorities must investigate or make public their previous investigations on war crimes and crimes against humanity in the northeast," she added. 'Lacking credibility' The Nigerian government told CNN the military had found cases of abuse in these camps during the period mentioned in Amnesty's report in 2015, countering the army spokesman's claims that the allegations were investigated and found not to be true. "Over this period of time, the Nigerian military had indeed established cases of abuse and punishments meted out from orderly room trials and court martials that included the losses of rank, dismissals, and trials and convictions by civil courts," Garba Shehu, a spokesman for the president, told CNN. However, Shehu echoed the Army spokesman's claims and accused Amnesty of "recycling" claims from a previous report. Amnesty's report lacked "credibility, falling vehemently short of evidential narration," from victims by failing to address mechanisms put in place by the military and the president's panel after similar allegations were published in 2015, he said. The Nigerian government was committed to investigating "all documented cases of human rights abuses," Shehu added.
Mark Zuckerberg addressed members of the European Parliament in Brussels on Tuesday, continuing an apology-and-explanation tour the Facebook CEO kicked off last month when he testified before the U.S. Congress. The European and U.S. inquiries concern the same fundamental questions about the social media giant, triggered by the news that Facebook permitted Cambridge Analytica to harvest the private data of 87 million users and that Facebook failed to take action when it became clear in 2016 that foreign actors were using its platform to spread disinformation and undermine democratic processes. Here’s Zuckerberg’s defense, in short: “Oeps! Het spijt me!” That’s Flemish for “Whoops! I am very sorry!” In his opening statement Tuesday, Zuckerberg reiterated what’s become a common refrain, acknowledging both that his company failed to properly safeguard its users’ data and that it was caught unprepared to counteract political meddling during past elections. As he’s done before, he assured the European politicians that Facebook now takes both issues seriously, but he stopped short of promising they won’t arise again. Zuckerberg was originally scheduled to speak privately, but agreed to have the questioning streamed online under pressure from European Parliament President Antonio Tajani. Some of the sharpest queries came from Belgian member Guy Verhofstadt, who called out Zuckerberg for Facebook’s long history of apologizing for its mistakes and then failing to actually correct them. He noted the similarities between Facebook and the global banking system, which assured watchdogs in 2006 that it was doing a great job of self-regulation. A historic global recession soon followed, set off by banking malfeasance. “I really think we have a big problem here and it’s not solved by saying, ‘We’re going to fix it ourselves,’” Verhofstadt said. Then he asked Zuckerberg directly if he wants to be remembered, together with Steve Jobs and Bill Gates, as having “enriched our world and societies” or if he wants to simply be “the genius that created a digital monster that is destroying our democracies and our societies.” The meeting constituted Zuckerberg’s sole address to European politicians ahead of the May 25 implementation date for strict new data privacy rules under the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation. Zuckerberg declined an invitation to separately address lawmakers in the U.K., where Facebook is under fire for its role in the country’s 2016 vote to leave the EU. Unlike his testimony in the U.S., where members of Congress took turns questioning Zuckerberg and hearing his answers, the European politicians all spoke first and then Zuckerberg addressed their questions in one long statement at the end. That format proved problematic, as several members objected when he ignored the specifics and stuck to discussing their “high level” concerns. Pressed for greater detail toward the end, including on the company’s practice of tracking people who don’t even have Facebook profiles, Zuckerberg promised to “follow up” with the politicians at a later date.
Warning! If you do not want to know who dies in “Avengers: Infinity War,” do not keep reading. You have been warned. What. Just. Happened? For fans of the Marvel universe, death has never really meant death. We’ve seen Loki “die” and come back plenty of times. Bucky Barnes and Nick Fury have been assumed dead at various points, only to spring back into existence in the Marvel Cinematic Universe as well. But this time, it was supposed to be different. Leading up to the release of “Avengers: Infinity War,” the directors of the film spoke about the movie as a “final chapter.” Marvel boss Kevin Feige talked about the deaths in the movie being “real” this time. In an interview on April 22, one day before the premiere, I asked writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely to define what death means in their recent project. “Death is death,” McFeely said. “I mean, we’re sensitive to that, and certainly the Marvel universe played with taking characters away and then giving them back to you in some other form. If we say goodbye to some characters, we will say it permanently.” He continued: “The idea is that this movie’s going to be different and has a potential to be really good is because the stakes are real and choices are real and we know that we’ve cried wolf a little bit on that, so I suppose some audience members might look at that skeptically, but trust us.” Did you get all that? “Permanent,” he said. “Trust us,” he said.
Julian Zelizer is a history and public affairs professor at Princeton University, editor of " The Presidency of Barack Obama: A First Historical Assessment " and co-host of the "Politics & Polls" podcast. Follow him on Twitter: @julianzelizer . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. Her slew of tweets targeted former Obama advisor Valerie Jarrett, Chelsea Clinton and George Soros's family, and elicited a strong response from ABC Network. Though Barr apologized for the Valerie Jarrett comment, the network announced that it would be canceling her show. The entire incident is a fitting story for the Trump era. The star of a television show -- one that has been said to capture the economic anxiety of the President's base -- just let off a tirade that captured the worst kind of social and cultural hatred that has taken root since the 2016 presidential election. If the tweets of the star are combined with the substance of the show, the rebooted "Roseanne" really does capture a troubling part of what President Trump's politics has centered on: Talk of economics with one breath, and then use another to unleash on different social groups. This on-screen portrayal of today's politics stands in stark contrast to the Gary David Goldberg's hit show "Family Ties," which in the 1980s was the sitcom seen as the best expression of the Reagan Revolution that was transforming American politics. In the show, which debuted in September of 1982, Michael J. Fox played Alex P. Keaton, the son of Baby Boomer liberals whose world view had been shaped by the 1960s. Fox's character is a walking poster boy for President Reagan's free market and hawkish anti-communist values, constantly fighting with his parents about their ideals. "When else could a boy with a briefcase become a national hero?" Goldberg recalled about the 1980s. In one episode Alex got mad at his mother Elyse for questioning the need to produce so many hydrogen bombs: "From the beginning of time, there's been weapons, and there's always been a fringe element who've overreacted. I'm sure that even in the early days, there were bleeding-heart cavemen running around with signs that said 'Make love, not clubs.'" Or there was the scene in which, during a job interview after college, Alex told his interviewer that he had a "killer instinct for cash. A lust for travelers' checks. Now sure, everyone who comes through this door loves money. But do they dream about it? Do they fantasize about it? Do they roll around naked in it? I do." These moments illustrate the way that the show's creator captured the legitimate ideological tensions of the 1980s that revolved around the role of government and markets as well as the best approach to national security. Yet, with its lovable characters, "Family Ties" showed that politics can indeed exist among compassion and good intention. "The Republicans took Alex under their wing and made him the poster boy for the movement," Fox later said , "while at the same time social liberals were writing me letters saying, 'Way to go,' satirizing that point of view." When seen in the context of Roseanne's tweets, today's version of "Family Ties" quickly becomes angrier and nastier. Of course, as an individual, Roseanne's tweets are distinct from the message of her show but in our modern social media age the lines that distinguish the two are difficult to separate. Regardless, the tweets from the star are a reminder that today's Trumpian conservatism is not only driven by economic beliefs but also by social and cultural division. Although many commentators had initially praised the show for focusing Americans on the economic concerns that made the Trump victory possible, the sitcom's star just exposed the visceral anger -- joking or not -- that has also been an integral part of the mix. While it is true that many in Trump's base do not agree with the sentiment that is conveyed in her tweets, too many were willing to vote for a person who played with and retweeted these kinds of ideas. Perhaps what is most unsettling are Trump-lite candidates who have been running for Congress who are now legitimate contenders. One candidate running for the governorship of Georgia has been riding on a " Deportation Bus " to demonstrate his support for kicking out undocumented immigrants. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Over the past few years, there have been too many moments when this kind of rhetoric has become part of the new normal, including from the President himself. It would be good to hear President Trump condemn the comments, though given that Donald Trump Jr. retweeted Barr's controversial tweets about Soros, the odds are low that such a statement is on the way. The continued assumptions that as a nation we won't allow public figures to "go there" keep proving to be misplaced when such rhetoric is not met with consequences. This time a television network took swift action. The question is whether anyone else with influence will be willing to do the same the next time this occurs
Italy’s President Sergio Mattarella approved the country’s far-right and anti-establishment parties’ nominee for prime minister on Wednesday, putting the nation on track to have one of the most populist and radical administrations in all of Europe. The far-right Lega and anti-establishment Five Star parties chose law professor Giuseppe Conte as their consensus pick for Italy’s next prime minister, despite his lack of governing experience. Mattarella giving Conte a mandate to form Italy’s next government clears one of the final hurdles for the two parties before they can begin to run the country. Both Lega and Five Star hold anti-migrant, anti-European Union views and look to bring the country closer to Russia through lifting economic sanctions against the Kremlin. The new populist government sets Italy up for a clash with the EU and brings more uncertainty for the country’s already fractured politics. The two non-traditional parties decided to band together after Italy’s election in March left no outright winner and resulted in months of negotiations to form a governing coalition. Italians rejected the country’s once-powerful establishment parties in the vote, leaving Lega and Five Star to fill the void. “The traditional Italian party system disappeared many elections ago,” said Sheri Berman, a professor of politics at Barnard College. “What you’re seeing now is the detritus of that ― which is a mess.” A Lega and Five Star coalition was widely seen as a worst case scenario for the EU after Italy’s vote, as both parties hold a longstanding opposition to the bloc. HuffPost Italia obtained an early draft of the coalition’s governing contract in which the two parties hoped to renegotiate EU treaties and identify ways they could potentially opt out of the euro.
(CNN) Gallup released new polling this week with an eye-popping headline: Donald Trump's re-election numbers are very similar to those of Barack Obama in 2010 and Bill Clinton in 1994. Wait, WHAT? The narrative of Trump's first 15 months in office has been that he is at historic polling lows. Then this. What gives? In an attempt to suss that out, my friend -- and resident CNN big brain -- Harry Enten and I exchanged a bunch of emails trying to figure out the Gallup result and what, exactly, it tells us about Trump, Republicans' chances in 2018 and Trump's own fortune heading into his 2020 reelection race. I've reproduced that email conversation below. : I was struck by this new Gallup poll -- or at least the headline: " Trump's Re-Elect Figures Similar to Those of Obama, Clinton ." Trump is at the same place as Obama and Clinton! That's remarkable, given that he has had the worst 15-month polling start of any president in the modern era. Then I read the fine print. Yes, 37% say that Trump deserves re-election which is the exact same number who said that about Bill Clinton in 1994 and Barack Obama in 2010. BUT, the numbers for Obama and Clinton are from October 2010 and 1994, respectively. That's after a full year of Republicans spending millions of dollars to campaign against them. We are only in April for Trump -- and the fall campaign is at its earliest stages. Virtually no ads attacking him have even run. So, apples and oranges, right? Or wrong? And what else did you see in the poll? Enten: Thanks for the email. I think you're on the right track with thinking this poll result isn't all it's cracked up to be. Gallup itself released numbers closer to this point (late April of the midterm year) for both Obama and Clinton. Obama was at 46% in late March and 48% in late May of 2010. Far above Trump. Clinton was at 46% in late March and 40% in late April of 1994. So, I don't know why Gallup did what it did. Of course, one could argue that because Trump's approval rating has been so steady that it will be in a similar position later this year, but I don't like to make assumptions like that. Who knows what all the ads Democrats will run this summer and fall will do to his ratings? Does that make sense? And I also think there are larger problems with this question, if you're interested in hearing about them? Cillizza: OK. We agree on that one: The Gallup poll is making an apples-to-oranges comparison. And, yes, tell me what else you don't love in the poll. One thing I don't want to lose sight of amid all of this: In 1994 and 2010, the president's party took an absolute beating at the polls -- losing control of the House in both elections. So, even if Trump winds up at 37% in October -- like Clinton and Obama -- that's not great news for Republicans. Enten: Re: your last point, I think you're 100% correct. The reelect figure is really a stand-in for presidential approval. In the : Re: your last point, I think you're 100% correct. The reelect figure is really a stand-in for presidential approval. In the latest Gallup poll , Trump's at a 38% approval rating. Based upon history, that, on average, points to a net seat loss in the high 30s. Democrats only need a net gain of 23 for control. So perhaps biggest problem I have with this question is it doesn't make it a choice between a Democrat and a Republican. There's a good chunk of voters who belong to the same party as the President who are thinking to themselves that they want a different person representing their party, but will ultimately vote for their party's nominee. If you're truly interested in gauging the presidential matchup at this point, I think it's better to ask a question which forces the respondent think about a Democrat and a Republican. At the very least, it gets us beyond simply the incumbent. As it stands, this question is really just another way of asking about approval and disapproval. So what's the point? When we ask about a Democrat vs. a Republican, it's when we see how unique Trump's standing in the polls really is... Thoughts? Cillizza: If by "unique," you mean "historically bad," then I am with you ;) I think the country was significantly polarized before the 2016 election. But that election coupled with the fact that Trump won and immediately began governing in ways to please his base (and not a lot of other people) took that polarization to new heights. The impact of that rush to your partisan extreme on polling is that almost EVERY question you can ask essentially becomes a proxy for this one: "Do you like President Trump or not?" Which makes nuance in polling -- and how it informs opinions about Trump -- very hard to divine. Enten: I think there's something to that. If you're a Republican, you like Trump. As I've written about, : I think there's something to that. If you're a Republican, you like Trump. As I've written about, the Republican Party is Trump's now . Heck, take a look at where Trump's approval rating is with Republicans. It's in the mid 80s (very close to the re-elect question). It basically makes it impossible for there to be a primary challenger who has any shot of taking Trump down. But to your larger point, I think in order to fully grasp the historicity of Trump's bad ratings, we need to look at how he's doing against potential Democratic nominees. Then we need to compare that to how other presidential incumbents were doing at this point. That is, we need to make an apples-to-apples comparison that takes into account the polarized era in which we live. In a CNN poll conducted earlier this year, Democrat Joe Biden and Democrat Bernie Sanders both led Trump by double digits among registered voters. I cannot begin to explain how bad of a position that is. There were six different times since the 1948 election with polls at this point in the cycle in which the eventual matchup was surveyed. 1948: President Harry Truman was tied with Republican challenger Thomas Dewey 1956: President Dwight Eisenhower held a 8-point advantage over Democrat Adlai Stevenson 1980: President Jimmy Carter held a 7-point lead over Republican Ronald Reagan 1984: President Ronald Reagan was tied with Democrat Walter Mondale 1996: President Bill Clinton was ahead of Republican Bob Dole by 9 points 2012: President Barack Obama was up 8 points over Republican Mitt Romney Note that in none of these polls was the incumbent in anywhere near as bad shape as Trump is right now. I'll note there were other years where the eventual matchup wasn't polled at this time, but in all of those the incumbent was either tied or well ahead of the leading challenger. Trump is in historically bad shape. He could recover and do better than expected, but at least right now it's not looking great. Cillizza: RIGHT. This is the broader point I keep reminding people about. Sure, Trump's approval numbers have improved marginally over the past six weeks or so. But, he is STILL in a position that, if history is any guide, suggests his party is in very bad shape in the 2018 midterms and Trump himself faces an uphill fight to win a second term in 2020. The retort to that point is something like: "2020 is a long time from now." And it is! 924 days to be exact! But Trump's approval numbers just seem to have a very hard floor and a very hard ceiling -- almost certainly because of how polarized we are as a country and how much the policies Trump has pursued have pushed that polarization. So while, sure, anything can happen, the likelihood of a double-digit (or even high single-digit) improvement or decline in Trump's approval ratings seems very, very low to me. Right? Wrong? Tie a bow on all of this for me. Enten: I think these are all valid points. I think as I've pointed out before Trump is scoring pretty well on the economy, and he's still stuck in the high 30s or low 40s. That's quite unusual. There just hasn't been a ton of movement in Trump's numbers. I mean he couldn't even hit 50% approval in the usual post-inauguration bump. How in the world is his approval rating going to go higher than the low 40s? Maybe, he gets a bump if special counsel Robert Mueller says "Trump is good." Maybe he gets a bump if we start seeing an even better economy. I think the better question that I'm asking in a piece that hopefully will see the light of day is whether you believe the normal rules of politics apply to Trump. You're going to see a lot of fancy models out there about Trump and low approval ratings... But let's be clear, presidents who have approval ratings of 40% usually don't get reelected. That's especially the case when their favorability rating (a slightly different measure) is also in the same area. Unless the normal rules don't apply to Trump, the only way he wins in 2020 if his approval rating is 40% is for the Democrats to nominate an equally unpopular candidate.
Amsterdam (CNN) From its base in the Dutch capital of Amsterdam, a confectionery company is doing its bit to fight modern-day slavery. Its unconventional weapon of choice? A rich range of chocolate products. "We are a funny company," says Henk Jan Beltman, chief chocolate officer at Tony's Chocolonely. "The reason that we are a company is not that we want to sell chocolate and not that we want to make money." Instead, Beltman adds: "We want to make the world a nicer place." Tony's Chocolonely is one of many companies dedicated to producing what's known as Fair Trade chocolate by providing better prices to farmers and slave free working conditions. Each bar is marketed with a promise to the consumer that no slave labor was used in the making of its chocolate. Photos: Dutch chocolate brand Tony's Chocolonely claims to be made without slave labor. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Chocolate is a huge global industry, but cocoa beans, which are used to make chocolate, are grown by some of the poorest people on the planet, in plantations that can hide the worst forms of child labor. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: 2015 report found that more than two million children were working in "hazardous" conditions in the cocoa industry in Ghana and the Ivory Coast. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Tony's Chocolonely says it traces its cocoa all the way from the beans bought from its farm cooperatives in West Africa to the finished product. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Although It is Fair Trade certified, Tony's says that certification alone is not enough. It maintains that traceability is the key to achieving completely slave-free chocolate. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Tony's cocoa comes from Ghana and Ivory Coast, sourced from a number of cooperatives. Pictured, a Tony's Chocolonely warehouse in Ghana. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: "We only work with 7,000 farmers. We are a tiny company," says Tony's Chocolonely's chief chocolate officer Henk Jan Beltman. "But if we can do it then the big guys can do it as well." Hide Caption 7 of 7 The cocoa sector, worth more than $100 billion per year, has long battled with poor labor practices and forms of exploitation. A 2015 report from Tulane University and the U.S. Department of Labor found that more than two million children were working in what it defined as "hazardous" conditions in the cocoa industry in Ghana and the Ivory Coast. According to the World Fair Trade Organization, one of the 10 guiding principles of the Fair Trade movement is to ensure good working conditions and ensure no forced labor has been used in the manufacture of any product. Yet Tony's Chocolonely believes the industry can further address this issue and that chocolate no longer needs to be a guilty pleasure. Beltman says, "If you look at certification like the Rainforest Alliance or Fair Trade or UTZ, those are all good but they don't manufacture a product ... and as a product owner you feel responsibility and it's your responsibility to sell something you can be proud of. "Whether it's fish or phones or chocolate bars, it's always the owner who is responsible for the stuff that they sell ... and a certification body is never going to take that responsibility away." Art of the chocolatier Its recipe for slave free chocolate starts on its cocoa farms. By focusing on the fine details of its supply chain, Tony's Chocolonely says it traces the origin of the cocoa it buys -- all the way from the beans purchased directly from its farm cooperatives in West Africa to the finished product. Yet it hasn't been working alone. Industry giant Barry Callebaut has become a strategic partner. At its factory in the town of Wieze, Belgium, Barry Callebaut has built a system that isolates Tony's Chocolonely product. Plant director, Xavier De Buysscher, says Tony's Chocolonely beans are treated, roasted and segregated. Its liquid chocolate is stored into a separate tank. Once this process is complete, the product is molded by Belgian chocolate masters, Althea, which stamps an ethical message into each bar. The unequal shape of the end product reflects inequality in the world and outlines the West African countries that supply the beans. This detail is in keeping with the Tony's Chocolonely marketing strategy, to remind the consumer how and why the company began. Life on the plantation In 2003, Dutch journalists behind popular show "The Consumer Investigation Agency" exposed the trafficking of boys from Burkina Faso to the Ivory Coast, interviewing former slaves about life on the cocoa plantations. The production team proposed to their audience that by eating chocolate all were complicit in slavery. After gathering testimonies from those who had been enslaved, reporter Teun Van De Keuken, unsuccessfully attempted to get himself arrested by the Dutch authorities to emphasize the point. Three years later, determined to prove chocolate could be made slave-free, the journalists founded Tony's Chocolonely. Now run by an executive team, the original founders have left the company. But cocoa labor abuses remain in the headlines. The 2015 Tulane University report said the number of child laborers in cocoa production in Ghana and the Ivory Coast had increased by 13% from the time the last study had been conducted five years before. It also cited endemic poverty as a major reason trafficking and unethical labor practices flourish in the region. Taste of success According to Beltman, Tony's Chocolonely operation has been hugely successful so far. "We launched as a journalist initiative ... but all of a sudden by sending out the message people were buying the product and talking about [it]," Beltman says. "We hit one million euro ($1.1 million) revenue in the first year. This year we aim to hit around $50 million in revenue." Yet it's not just rising profitability that points to success at Tony's Chocolonely. The fact that its methods have been fruitful is equally satisfying for all at the company. "We only work with 7,000 farmers. We are a tiny company. But if we can do it then the big guys can do it as well," Beltman says. "Then we solve the problem of slavery in the value chain of cocoa." "I'm gonna push as hard as we can to actually force other companies to work in the same way. There is no one in the world who wants to enjoy chocolate that comes from a source that's enslaved," he adds.
Michael D'Antonio is the author of the new book "Never Enough: Donald Trump and the Pursuit of Success" (St. Martin's Press). The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. (CNN) Having long ago committed himself to the proposition that there is no such thing as too much press, Donald Trump may be the most photographed, filmed and quoted man of our time. Add his own words, offered in books, speeches, Facebook posts and Tweets, and you might conclude that there's little left for this man to share. But think again. What if all those words were intended, not to reveal, but conceal? What if Trump talks so much because he wants to control the conversation? Now that Trump is the GOP's presumptive nominee for president, he'll face more intense scrutiny about his many claims to personal success, his political beliefs, his temperament and his character. In each case, the public record is filled with incidents and examples, but a skeptic finds little clarity. This state of affairs may suffice for anyone buying a steak or an apartment from Trump the salesman, but voters contemplating Trump the candidate for president deserve better answers to the lingering questions. Here they are: What is Trump's temperament? TV audiences have been treated to more than 100 episodes of Trump's reality TV shows "The Apprentice" and "Celebrity Apprentice." The Trump depicted on air is the product of so much editing and consulting by producers and directors that it is no better than a cartoon. More useful is the cumulative Trump record, which includes as many negatives as positives. Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Trump campaign: 11 outrageous quotes Hide Caption 12 of 12 To Trump's credit, he has shown himself to be resilient, coming back from failures that would have sent less confident men and women into business exile. Most notable, of course, is the crisis he experienced in the early 1990s when he was unable to pay personal and corporate debts in the neighborhood of $3.4 billion Trump is also a nimble entrepreneur, who looks for opportunities and seizes them decisively. Witness his ability to deal in real estate, entertainment and retail merchandising, all at the same time. On the other side of the ledger, open questions remain about his consistent record of cruelty and excess when dealing with critics and competitors. Trump's code begins with the belief that he's justified in "hitting back ten times harder" whenever he's offended. If our presidents believed in this approach, America would have engaged in shooting wars with untold numbers of countries that have, in recent decades, committed transgressions against the United States. Would Trump have hit back 10 times harder when North Korea detained the spy ship Pueblo? What about the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over the territory of our ally Ukraine. U.S. intelligence indicates a Russia missile likely was responsible. Would Trump have responded by downing 10 Aeroflot planes? JUST WATCHED Keeping Them Honest: Trump on Afghanistan & gun control Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Keeping Them Honest: Trump on Afghanistan & gun control 03:48 We can ask additional questions about Trump's penchant for bullying. In some cases this trait has shown itself in mere words, as he has attempted to humiliate, disparage and marginalize others. In other instances he has sought to force innocent landowners off their properties to make way for his developments. This willingness to use any means necessary to get what he wants raises serious concern about Trump's ability to manage America's affairs in a complex world. What does Trump believe? More than any political figure in modern times, Trump represents an ideological puzzle. Although he now claims the conservative Republican mantle, he has often associated himself with liberal and Democratic Party ideas. In 1999 he told CNN, "I've actually been an activist Democrat and Republican." In the past, Trump said he is "totally pro-choice." Now he is against abortion rights, recently musing about punishing women who might violate a ban on the procedure. JUST WATCHED Trump flip-flops on abortion ahead of Wisconsin primary Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump flip-flops on abortion ahead of Wisconsin primary 02:02 In the past, Trump was in favor of levying a big tax on the rich , himself included, to pay down the federal deficit. Like banks, rich people have the money, and Trump reasoned that they could afford to help the country out. Today, Trump is in favor of big tax cuts for the wealthy. In 2000 Trump proposed banning private ownership of assault weapons and increasing the waiting period for the purchase of guns. In the current campaign he has declared himself to be an ardent defender of gun rights, and he has even proposed eliminating gun-free zones near schools. The list of Trump flip-flops is long and includes his positions on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and his regard for Hillary Clinton's performance as secretary of state. Voters, especially those conservatives who want a clear sense of what their standard-bearer will do as president, deserve explanations for these shifts. How rich is he? Throughout his life Trump has cited his wealth as evidence of his excellence but without offering verifiable proof of his claims. In the 1970s he cruised Manhattan in a chauffeured limousine and gave others the impression that he was in control of the $200 million fortune amassed by his father. In the 1980s, when he first made it onto the Forbes magazine list of America's wealthiest men and women, Trump complained often and loudly about how his holdings were underestimated. More recently he said he is worth some $10 billion. The record produced by those who have looked closely at Trump's finances raises many questions. Writer Wayne Barrett reported in the 1980s that Trump's income as of 1978 was less than $100,000. In the 1993 biography of Trump called "Lost Tycoon," Harry Hurt III noted that during his divorce from his first wife, Ivana, her attorneys found that Trump had never been worth the billions of dollars he claimed. Hurt also reported that in March 1992, Trump's own lawyers said he could not afford to pay Ivana even half of the $20 million he had offered as a settlement. More recently doubts about his wealth arose in 2005 when journalist Tim O'Brien wrote that Trump was probably worth between $150 million and $250 million. For a man who reveled in his image as a billionaire, O'Brien's estimate was too much to bear. Trump sued. The case was dismissed by the trial judge. Trump appealed. He lost Were Trump a more circumspect and well-mannered man, who never bragged about how rich he is, his wealth would be less of an issue. However Trump has made his fortune such an important part of his identity that voters deserve to know the truth. Many of the facts are contained in Trump's personal income tax filings, and it is now a campaign tradition for candidates to make these documents public. Clinton has made public all of her returns going back to 2000. So far, Trump has refused to release his returns because, he says, he is undergoing an audit on returns filed in the last few years. Nothing in the law, or in federal regulations, would prohibit him from making the documents public now, but if he is uncomfortable with releasing those forms, he could simply match Clinton for those years that are settled. Such a release would reassure the public that Trump is who he says he is -- a really rich man -- and allow a glimpse into other matters, including his charitable giving. It is a matter of conservative orthodoxy that the rich should be spared excessive taxation so they can support society freely with their philanthropy. Is he a man of character? Personality, which can be seen in a smile, heard in a glib remark or felt when viewing a performance, is not the most important measure of a man or woman. Many people with winning personalities are, in fact, hucksters, con men, manipulators and deceivers. In fact, the false signals flashed by well-practiced performers, including politicians, compel us to look for the signs of the character beneath the personality. Experts in assessing character generally look for some traits such as autonomy and life purpose that Trump clearly possesses in abundance. But there are other areas of character , including positive relations with others, ethical behavior, empathy, honesty and humility where Trump would not achieve a very high score. In his long and very public life, Trump has often shown he is willing to do things others consider wrong in order to get what he wants. This includes using a false identity to make claims about his success, carrying out a bitter divorce dispute in the tabloid press, criticizing the appearance of others and refusing to take the high road when offered the chance. The most troubling aspect of Trump's character can be seen in his devotion to the so-called birther campaign that sought to delegitimize President Barack Obama. Despite all the evidence to the contrary, birthers led by Trump insisted that some mystery surrounded Obama's status as a citizen born in the United States. Long after documents were produced to settle this falsely posed question, Trump continued to raise doubts and thus signal his allegiance to those who considered the President to be an unworthy "other." The racism latent in the birther movement was documented in a study by University of Delaware psychologist Eric Heyman, but the link to prejudice was always plain to see. Rather than stand against birtherism, Trump built a following by exploiting it. In fact, one can find precedent for Trump's birtherism in his previous provocative statements about racially sensitive subjects. Other evidence of his character can be found in his selective use of facts, his tendency to inflame conflict rather than cool it and his devotion to self-promotion. In the past Trump's character has been well-suited to his pursuit of success as he defines it. But as revealed thus far, it would disqualify him when it comes to the presidency. We can only hope Trump has something better to show and will do it when placed under the pressure of the coming campaign.
Patrick R. Krill is a licensed attorney, board certified alcohol and drug counselor, author and advocate. He is the director of the Legal Professionals Program at the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. As is now customary with the passing of public figures, social media exploded with condolences for the family of the late Mayor Rob Ford on Tuesday, making it clear that a man once the subject of merciless ridicule was now being afforded a level of sympathy and kindness unfathomable just a few short years ago. Across the Internet and media, punchlines have largely been replaced by dignified tributes, and crude caricatures by staid, objective reporting. Why? Because Rob Ford, alive as an alcoholic, was apparently less deserving of compassion and understanding than Rob Ford, now dead from cancer. True, the fond remembrances and generous consolations are heartening, refreshing expressions of decency towards a family in grieving, and yes, they should be acknowledged and welcomed as such. To be clear, however, they are also the indisputable byproduct of the type of image makeover nobody wants — a cancer diagnosis. Fueling Ford's trajectory from viciously mocked to politely mourned, his cancer demonstrated how malleable our emotional responses are in light of our moralizations. Rob Ford was, after all, a man who suffered from two life-threatening diseases but garnered sympathy for only one. Perhaps that dichotomy is worth us, as a society, examining. When I first wrote about Ford for CNN in 2013 , I hoped to make the point that he wasn't that different from many people all around you — outwardly successful while secretly buckling under the weight of alcohol or drugs — and that addiction is a nondiscriminatory predator that strikes everywhere. But despite addiction's widespread presence and nonbiased grasp, a significant majority of society still doesn't view it — or react to it — the way we do other, less stigmatized diseases that makes us want to reach out and support the sufferer. In fact, it wasn't until Ford was diagnosed with what is unequivocally accepted as a "real" disease that many were able to accept, forgive and even admire him for his fight to survive. Sadly for the hundreds of thousands of people who die from the disease of addiction every year, such acceptance and forgiveness never comes. In a study published the year after Rob Ford first made international headlines for his struggles with drugs and alcohol, researchers from Johns Hopkins found that 90% of people would not want someone with addiction to marry into their family, and 78% did not want to work alongside addicted people. Furthermore, survey respondents were more willing to accept discriminatory practices against persons with drug addiction, more skeptical about the effectiveness of treatments, and more likely to oppose policies aimed at helping them. It is impossible to even conceive of similar statistics for cancer, diabetes, or heart disease, and you won't see "Saturday Night Live" doing a sendup of a politician's COPD or epilepsy symptoms anytime soon. Why is it that we continue to deride sufferers of one disease and openly project benevolence and humanity towards victims of another? Is emotional parity for diseases truly beyond our capacity, even between two that are felling ourselves and neighbors at a frequency and volume that leaves no life untouched? Despite the fact that excessive drinking is responsible for one in 10 deaths among working-aged Americans, or that drug overdose is the leading cause of accidental death in the United States, we rarely see the type of outward support for, and rallying around, people struggling with addiction as we do other illnesses. Families are often times left to shoulder their emotional burden alone in shame and silence, an injustice made final when underlying causes of death are cloaked behind less scrutiny-inviting terms like "liver failure," or "heart disease." Although even many forms of cancer itself are caused by heavy drinking, you're unlikely to see blameworthy "alcoholism" listed in the obituary of a throat cancer victim. After all, few families left behind would choose to diminish sympathy and invite judgment for their deceased loved one. But is a forced choice between honesty and sympathy really the best we can do? In the absence of available proof to the contrary, I'll make the assumption that Rob Ford would have been extended at least some level of eulogistic courtesy had his other disease taken his life. At least that's what I'll hope. But what we can't overlook is how compassion and empathy were scarce commodities during his high-profile battle with addiction, and how they shouldn't have been. Addiction is a sadly pervasive struggle in our world, present in your neighborhood and mine. The Rob Fords of the world are all around us, and they shouldn't have to die of cancer before we can view them humanely, on social media or otherwise.
Frida Ghitis, a former CNN producer and correspondent, is a world affairs columnist. She is a frequent opinion contributor to CNN and The Washington Post and a columnist for World Politics Review. The opinions expressed in this commentary are her own. (CNN) Without a hint of irony, Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro tweeted , "Let the world know. Millions of people are voting freely ... In Venezuela, it is the people who elect the president." The world, of course, already knows, as do the Venezuelan people, that the country long ago ceased to be a democracy. Maduro, no matter what he claims happened in Sunday's election, is a dictator. At a time when a global wave of authoritarianism is rising, a closer look at the Venezuelan tragedy reveals what was at the center of the power-grab: the dismantlement of the rule of law. It was this crucial tactic that turned one of Latin America's most enduring democracies into a basket case of social and economic collapse. Maduro is one of the world's most incompetent presidents. He and his acolytes transformed a country of vast natural resources into one of spreading hunger, exploding murder rates and out-of-control inflation. How did they do it? All populist autocrats try to foment divisions, find scapegoats and inflame their backers against their critics. But the path from populist autocracy to full-fledged dictatorship has one indispensable element: taking control of the judiciary and politicizing law enforcement. Once the executive controls the interpretation and enforcement of the law, it can do as it pleases. Venezuela offers a case study in how by politicizing the law, the regime -- incompetent in every other respect -- managed to seize control of the country without the need to impose military rule. It is no surprise that the World Justice Project ranks Venezuela dead last in its global Rule of Law Index. Maduro and his mentor, the late President Hugo Chavez, had governed with the support of a legislature dominated by their party, the United Socialist Party of Venezuela (PSUV). After Chavez's death in 2013, the uncharismatic Maduro took power. Already-difficult conditions worsened and the legislative elections in December 2015 brought a surprise victory for the opposition. With the opposition in control of the National Assembly, all pretense of democracy quickly unraveled. Almost immediately, in January 2016, the government declared a temporary state of emergency, handing the President the right to rule by decree on economic matters for 60 days. The government had accidentally allowed the opposition to win the legislative election, but it had a firm grip on the courts. In subsequent months, the Supreme Court, completely dominated by the ruling party, reversed almost every law the opposition tried to enact. The current chief justice is Maikel Moreno, a deeply controversial figure. Reuters looked into his background and found a 2006 intelligence report commissioned by Venezuela's Supreme Court, which includes his mugshot and criminal allegations, including homicide. But Reuters was not able to find documentation of a trial, sentencing or imprisonment for this accusation. Whatever the chief justice's history, the court has become an instrument of Maduro's political power. Although the constitution guaranteed judicial independence, the Supreme Court, through its Judicial Commission, has the power to remove at will any of the "provisional" judges -- more than half of the judges in Venezuela. According to the International Commission of Jurists , "the separation of powers is non-existent," in Venezuela. The judiciary has become an instrument of the President and his party. In keeping with that role, the court issued a stunning ruling the year after the opposition took control of the legislature. It removed the National Assembly's powers and took them for itself. The opposition called it a coup. The reaction was so violent that the court reversed course in a few days, but it was clear there was no way the regime was going to allow the democratically elected opposition to hold any of the levers of power. A few weeks later, the court approved a plan by Maduro to hold elections for a new Constituent Assembly. Despite massive demonstrations in which scores of protesters were killed, the Assembly was elected, amid evidence of fraud Once in place, it took over lawmaking duties, securing the third branch of government, with the regime in effect controlling the executive, legislative and judicial branches. The attorney general at the time, Luisa Ortega, had been a loyal Chavista. But she criticized the regime's patently antidemocratic moves. The Constituent Assembly promptly fired her amid a campaign of character assassination. Fearing for her life, she made a dramatic escape by speedboat. The Venezuelan government has not responded publicly to these claims. Ortega is speaking out across Latin America, describing corruption and human rights violations in a government where she worked for more than a decade. Ortega has become one of the regime's fiercest critics. She has accused the Maduro regime of crimes against humanity before the International Criminal Court in the Hague, claiming the authorities ordered arbitrary arrests, torture and killing of thousands of Venezuelans.The Venezuelan government has not responded publicly to these claims. Ortega is speaking out across Latin America, describing corruption and human rights violations in a government where she worked for more than a decade. By the time Sunday's election took place, only the thinnest veneer of democracy remained in Venezuela. The courts allowed Maduro to ban from politics the most prominent opposition members. The opposition has struggled with how to respond, causing self-defeating divisions that infuriate the majority of Venezuelans who want Maduro out of power. After nearly two decades under a government that constantly works to turn Venezuelans against each other, some in Venezuela accept Maduro's claim that their problems are the fault of the Americans or the opposition. But most people are fed up. Polls show Maduro's approval rating to be about 25%. But without democracy, the voice of the people does not decide who governs. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook As the world tries to figure out how to help the Venezuelan people, one timely lesson from their tragedy is that protecting the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, is a top priority in the defense against tyranny.
Humboldt County, California (CNN) Elle Snow laces up her combat boots, prepared once again, to go to war with "The Game." "The [purchasers] really want new products all the time," says Snow. "The [sex] traffickers like to move their victims frequently so they can't get to know anyone and it's harder for law enforcement to track them." For Snow, a native of Eureka, a town in rural northern California, this fight against sex trafficking is personal. She says she was 19 when she was first approached by an older man, who expressed an interest in dating her. "I met my trafficker the same way a lot of us do," says Snow. "You always hear, 'I met a guy.' And he was here in rural Humboldt County and we kept bumping into each other. I took this as fate and he portrayed it that way. He met my mom, he met my family. I didn't realize that I had been marked." 'This is how prostitutes are made' For Snow, it seemed to be a whirlwind, intoxicating romance. But that quickly changed, once her boyfriend invited her to Sacramento and got her away from her family and friends. "The next morning, I woke up and this man was standing in front of me. He had these 6 inch heels which I've never worn heels in my life being 6 feet tall and this little pink skirt. I've never worn pink in my life. And he wanted me to put these on and told me I had to get to work." Elle Snow At first Snow thought he was joking. "I told him 'I'm on vacation, like, what are you talking about?' And he's telling me you're not you anymore. This is not your name. Your name is now 'Angel.'" Snow recalls. "There was no way to get out of this situation. He took my clothes, my shoes, my keys, my phone, and eventually he started saying he is not who he said he was, that he's actually a pimp, and this is how prostitutes are made." Snow wanted to run, but the trafficker threatened to harm her 14-year-old sister. "The next thing I know was being taken to a brothel," Snow says. "I was trafficked throughout the [San Francisco] Bay Area for eight months of my life." He was dragging my body to a car when I woke up. Elle Snow, trafficking survivor, founder "Game Over" Snow says she tried to escape several times. Usually her trafficker would laugh at her, but one time in particular stands out, when an attempt to leave became physical and she feared her life was at risk. "I punched him and knocked his tooth out and he got up; I ran into the bathroom. And then for the next few hours I was beat bloody," she recalls. "I was strangled. He was dragging my body to a car when I woke up. My throat was so swollen and black and blue. I still have busted capillaries in it from all that." Surviving 'The Game' Snow eventually managed to escape with the help of a friend. In 2014, she testified against her trafficker, David Bernard Anderson, who was on trial, accused of trafficking a 16-year-old girl. Anderson, who went by the moniker "King David," was convicted and sentenced to nine years in prison. During that time, Snow realized Anderson was one of many men and women following a set of carefully laid-out rules and guidelines for how to force women into prostitution. "What happened to me was called 'The Game,' this monstrous beast that is this world of sex trafficking," she explains. "These guys have a complete structure, they have books, they have documentaries, they have podcasts." Kyla Baxley was the lead investigator on the case, for Humboldt County's District Attorney's Office. "It's important to remember victims of sexual assault and exploitation didn't choose this," says Baxley. "Realizing that it was happening here in Humboldt, and having an interaction with Elle Snow, being one of the victims, really helped raised awareness of this issue in the community." Humboldt County District Attorney Investigator Kyla Baxley was named "Investigator of the Year" by the California Sexual Assault Investigators Association. And through the course of the trial, Snow came to two important conclusions. None of this was her fault and it hadn't happened by accident. In 2016, she founded the anti-trafficking non-profit Game Over , dead-set on protecting other girls from the trauma and misery she went through herself. "I called Kyla and I told her, I'm going to do something about this," says Snow. "I'm going to make the world know about 'The Game.' They need to know or else they are susceptible to it." Fighting back Now Snow spends many of her days monitoring sex ads on online classified sites, looking for trends. "I am looking to see who they're coming in with, this someone showing up and then the same day another person showing up with the same area code. "And I'm looking for tattoos because traffickers like to brand their victims. The brandings tend to consist nowadays mainly of names. Especially names with a crown on the chest or neck. Also, anything to do with currency, diamonds, money bags as well as anything to do with 'loyalty to the family,' 'loyalty to the game,' 'made by,' or 'property of.'" JUST WATCHED Branded: Sex Slavery in America -- full documentary Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Branded: Sex Slavery in America -- full documentary 23:30 In addition to investigating real-time cases of human trafficking herself, Snow is also training law enforcement and speaking to local schools. Recently, she co-wrote and produced a play with three students from the Dell'Arte International School of Physical Theatre. Called "Jane Doe in Wonderland," it's a modern re-interpretation of the Lewis Carroll classic, based on Snow's own experiences. CNN attended a recent evening performance in front of a packed house at Eureka High School. A scene from Jane Doe in Wonderland. "If you're putting posters everywhere and everybody's talking about it and they're saying, 'Hey, I know what a pimp is. I know those books.' Then all of a sudden the traffickers don't feel comfortable anymore," says Snow. All of a sudden the traffickers don't feel comfortable anymore. Elle Snow, trafficking survivor, founder "Game Over" Rex Bohn, Humboldt County's 1st District Supervisor, was in attendance that night. He says he's been impressed on how quickly Snow's made a difference in this community. He says: "Elle's raised, through her own experience, the level of understanding for our local police, our local sheriff's department." In Elle Snow, it seems "The Game" may have met a young woman it can't beat. And traffickers in Northern California should be on guard, listening for Snow's hard-soled footsteps, and the legion of newly informed supporters, charging up behind them.
Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review, and a former CNN producer and correspondent. Follow her @FridaGhitis . The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) The calamity that has befallen the people of Syria has put the entire world to shame. The image of 3-year-old Aylan Kurdi lying facedown on a beach, dead, after his family sought to escape the horrors of their country's civil war , has touched the world. But compassion without action is pointless. Thousands of refugees are battling European governments. Today, it's Hungary . Last month, it was Macedonia . Desperate people are paying thousands of dollars to traffickers to take them to safety; scores have died of asphyxia after being locked in trucks that failed to reach their destination; thousands have drowned trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea. We are living in the worst refugee crisis since World War II , and yet the truth is that world leaders have failed to manage the crisis. They will, of course, answer to history. But in the meantime, the situation will only become worse without drastic action: More will die, more refugees will arrive unwanted, more countries will become destabilized and, if this goes on much longer, we will have a generation of Syrians who have grown up in the kind of conditions that perpetuate conflict. It is too late to prevent the current crisis, but there is plenty we can try to do moving forward to try to ease it. What exactly? For a start, world leaders should convene a top-level emergency gathering to focus on the key aspects of this crisis. The conference should be called by a group of countries, including Germany with strong backing from the United States, and should include the European Union, the United Nations and other world powers, Syria's neighbors, and also Russia and China. The objective should be threefold: to stop the killing, to help the refugees and to bring an end to the war. Arab nations must play a major role in addressing the Syrian crisis. We are all responsible. But the people of Syria are their neighbors, their brethren. The conflict is in their midst, its impact close to home. To be sure, the neighborhood has not completely failed Syrian refugees. The overwhelming majority of those who have fled Syria -- millions of them -- are now living in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, and Arab states have helped finance those costs. But more is needed. Once convened, this international conference should work to develop a comprehensive international plan to help refugees, one that involves a much greater role for Arab and other Muslim states. Indeed, wealthy Gulf states should be encouraged to not just make an outsize financial contribution, but countries like the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Oman and Saudi Arabia should be pressed to welcome refugees. Of course, Europe and the United States should also receive more from among the millions of desperate Syrian refugees fleeing conflict. But so should thriving Muslim states such as Malaysia, Indonesia and of course Iran, whose support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad means it has additional moral responsibility for what is happening. (And speaking of Asia, this could be an opportunity for a country like Japan, with its demographic crisis, to boost its population, or at least do its part to share the burden of this major humanitarian emergency.) But giving refuge to those who are fleeing the horrors of conflict is not enough -- the crisis also needs to be tackled at its source. So, to at least try to slow the killing, it is time to give serious consideration to the establishment of safe zones inside Syria, a proposal that is actually more complicated than it might sound. For example, when Turkey proposed such an approach , some feared that it secretly planned to expel Syrian refugees from Turkish territory and send them back inside Syria to any safe zones. If the system is to work, these zones must come with an ironclad vow from countries hosting refugees not to force anyone to return to Syria before the war is over. Safe zones will, of course, require a military commitment to be effective, perhaps from the United States, NATO and other allies, to guarantee the "safe" in "safe zones." They will therefore need to become no-fly zones, with air patrols and anti-aircraft support on the ground. The betrayal of so-called safe areas in Bosnia's Srebrenica must never be allowed to happen again. Above all, though, it is imperative to bring an end to the war, to defeat ISIS and -- just as crucially, although this point now often gets overlooked -- to bring an end to the regime of al-Assad, whose rejection of peaceful demands for democratic reform laid the groundwork for this epic human displacement and for the upsurge in extremism. Such an enormous movement of people is further destabilizing an already unsettled region, and bringing with it a level of disruption that could very well sow the seeds for another generation of conflict and extremism. The West's initial approach, which effectively viewed the Syrian civil war as "their problem," has merely underscored how in reality there is no way to contain such conflicts within national boundaries -- this war has spawned ISIS, its videotaped beheadings and sanctioned sexual slavery , scattering its poisonous extremist ideology far and wide. And while an international gathering cannot undo the devastation that has been wrought, it can still be a positive first step toward winding down this conflict. This is the moral and strategic challenge of our time. So far, the world has failed. But if its leaders can begin to publicly and materially empower those who stand for a pluralistic, tolerant and democratic Syria -- one that will eventually welcome back the millions of citizens who have fled -- then we might be able to turn the compassion we have seen in recent days into a more hopeful legacy for the country and its people.
NOBLESVILLE, Ind. -- Jason Seaman, the hero teacher who stopped a school shooter at Noblesville West Middle School Friday, was honored at a baseball game Monday morning. The game was an Indiana Sectional Championship baseball game between Noblesville High School and Hamilton Southeastern High School. A moment of silence was held before Seaman arrived, then students began chanting Seaman's name, "Mis-ter Sea-man!" There was a special moment after the game as Noblesville West Middle School Hero Jason Seaman met Miller Baseball player Jackson Ramey. Ramey organized the GoFundMe page for Seaman that has raised over $70,000! #WAT pic.twitter.com/M9Q1ZFEUwH — The Noblesville Millers (@MillerNationAD) May 28, 2018 In an especially powerful moment, Seaman walked to some of his students who wanted to see him, with a fence separating them. The students said they were glad to see him, and he gave them some high-fives. "If it weren't for him, we, that could have been so much worse. He literally risked his life for us," said Niah Johnson, 8th grade. "At some point soon, I want to shake that man's hand. He's an absolute hero. He's actually the reason that my daughter is here today," said Ryan Lowry, parent. Watch video of the interaction with the students in the player above. Police say Seaman, 29, tackled a student who started firing in his classroom Friday morning. He was shot three times during the incident, but released from the hospital Saturday. Noblesville Schools is selling T-shirts to raise money for Seaman and the other victim in the shooting, Ella Whistler. Whistler's family said she is doing well at Riley Hospital for Children. Noblesville sold out of T-shirts at the game, raising more than $10,000 for Seaman and Whistler. To buy a T-shirt to support Seaman and Whistler, click here. Happening right now: @katieheinz6 is interviewing students who are telling her how happy they are to be here and see Jason Seaman. One told her since the shooting it’s been very hard to even sleep at night since the shooting happened at Noblesville West Middle School. pic.twitter.com/3S7pRZq8or — Nicole Griffin-RTV6 (@NicoleGriffinTV) May 28, 2018 Noblesville West Middle School teacher who was shot last Friday Jason Seaman just arrived at the baseball game. @rtv6 He was honored at the start of the game. pic.twitter.com/pOnXijcpHl — Nicole Griffin-RTV6 (@NicoleGriffinTV) May 28, 2018 Student section chanting “Mr. Seaman” during sectional baseball game. Very large crowd here to honor the teacher being called a hero. @rtv6 pic.twitter.com/u11X12uJD5 — Nicole Griffin-RTV6 (@NicoleGriffinTV) May 28, 2018 Moment of silence at sectional baseball game between Hamilton Southeastern HS & Noblesville for Jason Seaman & Ella Whistler. #NoblesvilleStrong @rtv6 pic.twitter.com/4gaxl7LdCR — Nicole Griffin-RTV6 (@NicoleGriffinTV) May 28, 2018 MORE COVERAGE | Teacher who stopped Noblesville shooter: My actions 'were the only acceptable actions' | Science teacher Jason Seaman being called a hero for stopping school shooter | Noblesville teacher shot 3 times while stopping shooter released from the hospital | Two shot at Noblesville West Middle School | FBI, ATF searching suspected shooter's home | Secondary threat made to Noblesville High School following active shooter at middle school | Responses to Noblesville school shooting | Students, parents describe Noblesville shooting | Indiana schools can allow teachers to have guns | How to talk to your kids about Noblesville shooting Top Trending Videos
Big banks are poised for a long-sought win. Regulators on Wednesday unveiled their first rewrite of a post-financial crisis rule that bars banks from making risky trades with their own money, including customer deposits. The proposed changes would make it easier for banks to gain exemptions and resume some of the profitable trading they did before the crisis. Banks would also get more freedom to determine for themselves which trades are acceptable under the rules. The provision, known as the Volcker rule, was a landmark piece of Dodd-Frank, the financial reform law enacted in 2010. It bans what's known as proprietary trading, and blocks banks from taking big stakes in hedge funds or private-equity firms. The rule was named for Paul Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chair. Banks have said for years that it's too complex and difficult to comply with. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a statement that the proposal would strike at "some of the uncertainty and complexity that now make it difficult for firms to know how best to comply, and for supervisors to know that they are in compliance." Supporters of the regulatory safeguard called the proposed changes a giveaway big banks. "These are not small, technical changes," said Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, one of the co-authors of the Volcker rule. "These are massive rewrites to make it easier for Wall Street banks to engage in the same types of risky bets that brought down our economy in 2008." Related: House clears path to roll back post-crisis banking rules Five federal agencies — the Fed, the SEC, the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission — have been working on the rewrite. Under the proposed changes, banks would be freed from having to prove that they are making a trade for reasons other than speculative betting. Instead, that burden will shift to regulators. Banks would be asked to set internal limits on various trading positions, working with regulators, according to agency officials who briefed reporters on Wednesday. Banks with smaller trading desks would be subject to even fewer requirements. The proposal would also clarify how banks should distinguish between proprietary trading and what's known as market making. Trading desks often hold an inventory of securities that they anticipate will meet demand from customers. If those inventories are too great, it raises the question of whether the banks are holding them to make money on proprietary trading. Banks say it's too difficult now to determine what's proper trading, the buying and selling of securities that helps financial markets function smoothly, and what's not. "We want banks to be able to engage in market making and provide liquidity to financial markets with less fasting and prayer about their compliance with the Volcker rule," Randal Quarles, the Fed's vice chairman for supervision, said in a speech to bankers in March. Quarles said Wednesday's proposal was a "important milestone" but should be considered the first step at simplifying the rule. He said it is "not the completion of our work." Wall Street analysts had been expecting the rewrite to be modest. "This is not a radical change, and the results for the biggest banks may be less than the headlines would suggest," Jaret Seiberg, an analyst at Cowen Washington Research Group, wrote in a note to clients on Tuesday. Related: Changes at CFPB's student loan division worry advocates Still, for regulators, it's yet another tilt toward the industry since President Trump took office. Thousands of community and regional banks won a reprieve last week from some of the toughest post-crisis rules under Dodd-Frank. Among the changes signed into law by Trump, banks with less than $10 billion in assets will no longer have to comply with the proprietary-trading rule. "The Volcker rule is hated by big banks because it forces them to engage in less risky behavior," said Karl Frisch, executive director of the consumer advocacy organization Allied Progress. "They couldn't care less that their previous actions led to millions of Americans losing their jobs, retirement savings, and homes." The initial plan by regulators eliminates certain requirements to make it easier for banks to hedge against losses. Bankers have long lamented that steep compliance costs made it harder to reap the benefits of exemptions tucked into the rule, which came into effect in 2015. It took years for regulators to finalize a plan that would prevent banks from making speculative market bets with their own money. To simplify the rules, regulators agreed to create three buckets for financial firms based on their trading activity. Roughly 18 firms, which have "significant trading assets and liabilities" of at least $10 billion or more, would face the strictest oversight. Related: Italy crisis rocks markets. Here's why investors are worried The Fed, which unanimously approved the proposal on Wednesday, is the first of the agencies to consider it. It will be months before the changes take effect. "A final rule in 2018 is no sure thing," Ian Katz, an analyst at Capital Alpha Partners wrote in a report this week. The FDIC, which meets on Thursday, is the next agency scheduled to consider the plan. The CFTC has scheduled its meeting for June 4. Each agency must sign off on changes and vote on whether to seek public comment. Isaac Boltansky, director of policy research at Compass Point Research & Trading, said in an analyst note that changing the rule will be a "lengthy process," with five agencies in charge. House lawmakers are hoping to streamline that process by proposing the Fed be in charge of overseeing how banks adhere to the Volcker rule. But the effect could be limited, Boltansky said.
OTTAWA — Canada will impose retaliatory tariffs on up to $16.6 billion worth of U.S. imports in response to the American decision to place similar levies on Canadian-made steel and aluminum. The Canadian tariffs, which go into effect July 1, cover a broad range of items. Some, mainly unfinished iron and steel products, will be hit with a 25 per cent tariff, while others, including many consumer products, will be tagged with a 10-per-cent duty. Here is a list of some of the affected products, which run from industrial metal bars to gherkins, whiskey and felt-tipped pens. Items subject to 25 per cent - Iron and non-alloy steel in ingots or other primary forms, including semi-finished products, flat-rolled products, bars and rods and wire. - Stainless steel ingots or other primary forms, including semi-finished products, flat-rolled products of stainless steel, bars and rods, angles, shapes and sections, and wire. - Other alloy steel in ingots or other primary forms, including semi-finished products, flat-rolled products, bars and rods, angles, shapes and sections, hollow drill bars and rods, wire. - Tubes and pipes, sheet piling, railway or tramway track construction material, pipe for oil or gas pipelines, casing or tubing used in drilling for oil or gas. Items subject to 10 per cent - Food products, including yogurt, roasted coffee that is not decaffeinated, prepared meals of fowl or beef. - Sweets, including maple sugar and syrup, licorice candy, toffee, other sugar confectionery, including white chocolate, not containing cocoa, other chocolate in blocks — slabs or bar, filled or not filled. - Other foods, including pizza and quiche, cucumbers and gherkins, jams, jellies, strawberry jam, nut purees and pastes, berry purees, and other fruit purees other than banana puree. - Condiments, including soy sauce, tomato ketchup and other tomato sauces, prepared mustard, mayonnaise, salad dressing, mixed condiments and mixed seasonings, other sauces. - Soups and broths, mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavour. - Whiskey. - Personal grooming products, including manicure or pedicure preparations, hair spray, shaving and after-shave preparations, soaps and other skin washing products. - Household products, including room deodorizers, automatic dishwasher detergents, candles and tapers, other than those for birthdays, Christmas or other festive occasions; glues or adhesives sold in containers of under a kilogram, tableware and kitchenware, plastic household articles and hygienic or toilet articles, of plastic, toilet paper, handkerchiefs, cleansing or facial tissues and towels, tablecloths and serviettes, printed or illustrated postcards or greeting cards. - Hardware products, including insecticides and fungicides in packages under 1.36 kg each, plywood (other than bamboo), veneered panels and similar laminated wood. - Other steel or iron products, including beer kegs, or parts for stoves, ranges, grates, cookers and barbecues. - Aluminum bars, rods, wire, sheets, foil, tubes and pipes and pipe fittings, most aluminum structural pieces, aluminum reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers, including tanks for compressed or liquefied gas. - Aluminum kitchenware, including tables, scouring pads. - Appliances, including refrigerator-freezers fitted with separate external doors, instantaneous or storage water heaters, washing machines. - Miscellaneous items, including lawn mowers, electrical boards, panels, consoles, inflatable boats, sailboats, motorboats, mattresses, sleeping bags and other bedding, playing cards, ball point pens, felt tipped and other porous-tipped pens and markers. Also on HuffPost:
Errol Louis is the host of "Inside City Hall," a nightly political show on NY1, a New York all-news channel. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. This is the next installment in the CNN Opinion series on the challenges facing the media, under attack from critics, governments and changing technology. (CNN) The hilariously inept attack on the Washington Post by an organization run by right-wing prankster James O'Keefe -- his latest in a catalog of failures, falsehoods and fraud -- is a "worst practices" list of things a true news organization should never, ever do. O'Keefe has spent years attempting to expose alleged liberal bias in mainstream media organizations, which, in and of itself, is a worthy goal. Every member of a quality news organization -- editors, reporters, producers and executives -- should be prepared to explain and defend their work and methods: what stories we cover, how we do it and what assumptions or hidden biases might lie behind our choices. But serious media critics have a responsibility, too, one that is equal to, if not greater than, the organizations they wish to expose. That means operating with honesty, fairness and good faith, taking care to back up accusations with concrete evidence. But O'Keefe, whose website describes him as "an award-winning journalist," is more partisan prankster than honest critic. Despite naming his organization Project Veritas (Latin for "truth"), O'Keefe has frequently resorted to deceptive and occasionally illegal tactics, including the use of false identities , trespassing and selectively edited videos that have frequently been debunked
Asian stock markets slumped Wednesday as jitters spread over Italy's escalating political crisis and renewed US-China trade tensions. Japan's Nikkei and Hong Kong's Hang Seng both fell around 1.5%, while the Shanghai Composite sank more than 2%. Markets were calmer in morning trading in Europe, with most major indexes posting small gains or losses. The declines across Asia came after a sell-off Tuesday in Europe and the United States, where the Dow closed down 1.6%. Traders in Asia said investors were exiting riskier assets such as stocks after political turmoil in Italy sparked fears over the future of the euro and the White House revived plans to slap tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods. Italy is headed for new elections after populist politicians failed to form a government, and investors worry the result could throw the European Union into turmoil. They are demanding higher yields to hold Italian government debt. "This potential crisis is monumental," Stephen Innes, head of Asia-Pacific trading at foreign exchange firm Oanda, said in a note to clients. Related: Italy crisis rocks markets. Here's why investors are worried He pointed out that Italy's economy is far bigger than that of Greece, the source of the last eurozone crisis. Investors in Asia are also worried about President Donald Trump's hardening stance on trade with China. The administration announced Tuesday that it would proceed with its proposal to impose 25% tariffs on $50 billion worth of goods from China and place new limits on Chinese investments in US high-tech industries. The decision was a surprise, coming less than two weeks after China and the United States said they had agreed to put threats of new tariffs on hold. China's Commerce Ministry said the Trump administration's latest announcement is "obviously in violation of the consensus" reached by the two countries in recent talks. Jingyi Pan, a market strategist at broker IG Group, said the move may be interpreted as a negotiating tactic ahead of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross' planned visit to China this weekend for more trade talks. But it's still adding to negative sentiment in Asian markets, she added. The gloomy mood may not continue in US markets later Wednesday, though. Dow futures were indicating slight gains.
WYFF, the NBC-affiliated station in Greenville, South Carolina, is mourning the loss of two journalists who died while on assignment in the region on Monday. Anchor Mike McCormick and photojournalist Aaron Smeltzer were out covering hazardous weather conditions in Polk County, North Carolina, when a tree crushed their news van, the station reported. Both men were killed. North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper said the two died as a result of storm-related conditions. Heavy rain, partly from the fringes of subtropical storm Alberto, has caused flooding concerns across the region. "The ground is saturated," Geoff Tennant, the fire chief in Tryon, North Carolina, told reporters Monday evening. The incident occurred around 2:30 p.m. Tennant said the news crew was driving on Highway 176 when the tree collapsed on the vehicle. "It is a freak of nature," he said of the collapse. "You know it's going to happen, you don't know when." Tennant had just taped an interview with McCormick. "We talked a little bit about how he wanted us to stay safe and we wanted him to stay safe," Tennant said. "Then of course 10 or 15 minutes later we get the call and it was him and his photographer." Related: Subtropical Storm Alberto makes landfall in Florida On Monday evening, journalists from local newsrooms across the country joined WYFF in paying tribute to the news crew. (WYFF is also a CNN affiliate.) "Mike and Aaron were beloved members of our team, our family," WYFF co-anchor Carol Goldsmith said while breaking the news on the station's 6 p.m. newscast. "All of us here at WYFF 4 are grieving," co-anchor Michael Cogdill added. "We are a family. And you, our extended family, we thank you for your comfort as we mourn and as we seek to comfort the families." Related: Get ready for an above-average hurricane season in 2018 Later in the evening, anchors on a competing station, WSPA, called the news "heartbreaking." "While we are competitors on the air, Mike and Aaron were our friends, and part of a journalism family. We will all miss them both very much," anchor Gordon Dill said. Until recently, Smeltzer had worked at WSPA, the CBS-affiliated station in the area. Both men were in their mid 30s. McCormick, a native of Florida, had been working at WYFF for eleven years. Along with reporting during the week, he anchored weekend broadcasts. He was "a stellar journalist all those years," Goldsmith said. Smeltzer, a native of Virginia, "shot news for more than a decade in our region," Goldsmith said. "He loved covering news, especially in Spartanburg and its surroundings." - CNN's Janet DiGiacomo contributed reporting.
Courtesy Sunayana Dumala Sunayana Dumala’s husband, Srinivas Kuchibhotla, was killed on Feb. 22, 2017, at the age of 32. Courtesy of Priya Chandrasekaran Priyadarshini Chandrasekaran is a mother of two from the Seattle area. She is in the U.S. on an H-4 visa. Many Indian H-4 wives arrive in America as newlyweds. Within a matter of months, these highly educated, cosmopolitan women go from working respectable jobs in India, surrounded by their family, friends, and domestic help, to being isolated inside their suburban American homes. For some Indian women, this enforced break is an opportunity to discover new hobbies or concentrate on the hard work of raising children. But others say they end up feeling a loss of control over their own lives ― whether it’s depending on their husbands for menial tasks, like grocery shopping, or being anxious about how they would provide for their families if their partners ever got sick. In addition, it may take years for these women to see any substantial change in their immigration statuses. No more than 7 percent of employment-based green cards can be given to natives of any one country. With India’s booming population and the high number of Indians arriving in America on employment-based visas, Indian nationals face much longer waits for a green card than those coming from other countries. A study from the National Foundation for American Policy suggests that at the current rate, Indian nationals could wait over 20 years for their green cards. For H-4 wives, that could mean decades of waiting in limbo. Lawmakers and activists have come up with a number of proposed solutions for the challenges facing H-4 wives. Representatives Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.) and Mia Love (R-Utah) are urging the DHS to maintain the current rule granting work authorization to certain H-4 spouses. In a letter signed by 130 bipartisan members of Congress, the politicians insist that giving H-4 spouses the opportunity to work helps both the economy and the women’s children ― many of whom are current or future U.S. citizens. Other advocates, like Dumala and her congressman Kevin Yoder (R-Kan.), have their eyes set on something bigger. Yoder is sponsoring a bill that would eliminate the per-country caps that have caused green card backlogs for Indians. Dumala told HuffPost that while the H-4 EAD program is important, it’s not a permanent solution. She believes Yoder’s bill gets to the root of the problem. “After having seen the worst, I cannot lead others towards a short-term solution,” she said. “Having a H-4 EAD will give us job security, but will it give us life security if an unexpected tragedy knocks on our door?” As their futures hang in the balance, many of America’s H-4 wives have not been content to continue to live in limbo. Numerous Facebook groups connecting these women have sprouted up online. Like Dumala, many have gotten involved in advocacy and have been sharing their stories. Below, HuffPost has gathered together the accounts of five women who are in the U.S. on the H-4 visa. In interviews, these women painted portraits of their lives ― how they fell in love, how they decided to come to the U.S. and the dreams they have for themselves and for their children. All of these women are also recipients of the H-4 EAD, which means they’ve tasted the freedom that comes with having the ability to work and are fearful of what could happen if the program is rescinded. Having an H-4 EAD also means these women are citizens in waiting. Often, they are already the mothers of American citizens. Read on to learn about these women’s lives as they fight for a chance to achieve their American dreams. These interviews have been edited and condensed for clarity. Courtesy of Karunya Rao Karunya Rao “I always thought of myself as a feminist ... I don’t feel like a feminist in this situation.” — Karunya Rao, Stamford, Connecticut If you’re 25 and a single girl in India, alarm bells start ringing everywhere. I was initially extremely skeptical about this whole concept of arranged marriage. But when I met my now-husband, it was completely different. He had a very progressive state of mind. I really liked everything about him. I did not expect to find love in such a method, so I didn’t want to let go of it. He had moved to the U.S. for his master’s. He had been with the same employer for years and was very happy. I was initially not keen on coming to the U.S. But I happened to like the boy and I found out that there was a chance that I could work, thanks to a new rule by the Obama administration. So I took my chances. I probably would have had second thoughts if I knew what was to come. It’s hard to go back now and say that, I don’t want to think like that. But this sheer idea of having this possibility of an EAD is what drove me. My priorities were more about sticking to a person that you like, versus being adamant about the place where you stay. We got married in June 2015 and moved here soon afterwards. We lived in Manhattan first. It was initially exciting, but later, I went into this shell. It’s so easy to isolate yourself in a dark apartment, in a country where you barely know anybody. If I just walked into a Dunkin’ Donuts, I would be at a loss for words. In India, I worked in corporate training, helping new hires in various companies in Bangalore become more confident speaking English. Here, I would make grammatical errors. Just think what that could do for a person’s self-confidence. We eventually moved out of the city to Stamford. I got my EAD in December 2016, but I haven’t found a job yet. I am a living example of why it’s not a privilege to have an EAD. I got a few interviews for marketing positions that I couldn’t take up because I don’t drive. I had plans of starting an online art shop but then came the news of the possible H-4 EAD revocation. The stress and uncertainty is enough to make one’s creative mind shut down completely. I always thought of myself as a feminist. I was always standing up for all my women friends who had to take unfair injustices in their families. But imagine coming here and not being able to do anything yourself, not being able to actually have equality in marriage in the truest sense because I don’t work. I feel like I can’t talk in a social gathering about today’s feminism. I don’t feel like a feminist in this situation, that’s the problem. Priya Chandrasekaran Priyadarshini Chandrasekaran and her family. “I felt that I was being caged inside my home.” — Priyadarshini Chandrasekaran, Seattle, Washington My husband and I had an arranged marriage. I didn’t know much about the person I was marrying, except that he worked for Microsoft and that his parents lived in the same city as mine. My mom had brought up a lot of proposals for me and I did speak to a couple of them. What struck me about my now-husband was that he was completely supportive of me taking care of my mom financially in the future. I was completely thrown aback by that and I thought that this is the guy I want to be with, who can treat me right and equal. We met in a restaurant in February 2010, said yes to each other the same evening, and got married in June 2010. I came to the U.S. a few days later. I knew when I came that I wouldn’t be able to work immediately, but I was hoping I’d be able to work after two to three years. The first few months were great, but after some time, I just felt useless. I felt that I was being caged inside my home. I don’t think I actually understood what I was signing up for. My husband used to go to work in the morning and come back late, while I would look at the four walls of my home. I would get up, do chores, call my mom. My husband’s friends would be my friends. It took a long time for me to make friends of my own, to feel like I’m somebody here, that I had a friend. When I heard about the H-4 EAD, I felt so happy. It was like a dream come true. After I got a job, we were able to buy a home and I’m able to contribute to the mortgage. There’s a little free cash flow in the house. I’m sending my kid to swim classes and enrolled him for tae kwon do. We got a nanny. All I needed was the opportunity to be interviewed, to go to work, to do something I like and that I’m passionate about. My husband will eventually be a citizen and I will eventually be a citizen. If you’re going to have me stay home, I’m not going to be useful to the family or the community. I feel like my independence is being cut off by hearing this news that I may not be able to work. Overall, it’s the women who are going to be at a big loss. What are these women going to do? Are we really a society that is going to cause trouble to so many women? I’m sure that will also indirectly affect families and kids. You’re going to be all day home, looking at four walls while the kids are at school. What would you do with those eight, nine hours? Courtesy of Poonam Ghelani Poonam Gangawane Ghelani. “There’s no stability, even though we are doing everything right.” — Poonam Gangawane Ghelani, Waldwick, New Jersey I had a wonderful picture of life in the U.S. I thought we would have a better life. We didn’t have any plans to settle over here in the beginning. We wanted to study, get some experience and go back to India. Once you come over here, you start working, study, get married, your children are born here, then you slowly start to think about settling in the country that we have heavily invested in. I come from a family where boys and girls are raised as equals. I always wanted to have a career like my husband’s. He has more stability because he’s been with a single employer so long that the employer has filed for a green card. That’s not the case with me. I got consulting roles and I don’t get full-time benefits that other employees get. There’s a discrepancy between his career and my career, even though we put in a similar amount of effort. My husband never made me feel bad, but I feel like I should have that monetary power. I should have that confidence you get when you’re earning, when you’re in society, when you have your colleagues outside of home that you talk to about your field of interest. That gives you happiness that can’t be fathomed. And losing that happiness, it will just put you in a depression. It’s just a waste sitting at home and not contributing to the economy. I don’t think stay-at-home moms are not important. The toughest job is a stay-at-home mom. But when you’re qualified, you want something else from your life, you want some more freedom, some independence, some decision-making power. Who doesn’t want that? After hearing about the threat to the H-4 EAD, I have had many sleepless nights thinking about alternatives. We have jobs, kids, a social life, everything, and apart from that this thing is always at the top of our minds. Our lives are depending on these political changes. There’s no stability, even though we are doing everything right. We are legal. There is not a single day that we have been illegally staying in this country. We have been paying our taxes, doing everything right by the book. Why are we being punished for this? tapui via Getty Images “My intention is not to make money — I just don’t want to rot.” — Anupama Krishnamurthy, West Norriton, Pennsylvania When you don’t have a car and you stay at home all day long, no family, no friends, just you and the screen connecting you to the world, you get so depressed and lonely. I lost my self-esteem and my-self respect fell to ground zero. I felt like I was forgetting how to speak in English. Because if you don’t often to speak to other people, if you don’t interact socially and professionally, you start stuttering your own words. You get panic attacks about whether you are speaking right or wrong. You become an introvert even though I’m not an introvert at all. After I had a kid, I didn’t want him to go through what I went through. Putting him on child care was hard on us financially, but very necessary for my mental peace and his growth. If I didn’t put him in child care, he wouldn’t pick up the accent and because of his skin color, he would feel that he’s not an American. I want him to grow up as American and not feel aloft from the community. I literally cried when I got my EAD. I felt that I had gotten a freedom card. My intention is not to make money ― I just don’t want to rot. I eventually got a job in the field that I studied for. It’s indescribable ― the confidence, the self-respect you have. When we heard that the EAD could be revoked, we canceled our plan of buying a home and now we’re thinking about what we can do. We can’t live in this uncertainty forever. The stress eats you up so that you’re not normal anymore. It’s like we are living a nightmare every day. You leave your fruitful career behind and come here for an American dream, for something better. But it’s not better. Everyone expects to grow, not to be pulled back. We’re not asking too much. Let us work, let us contribute to society, to ourselves, so that we have some self-respect when we look at ourselves in the mirror. America is a land of immigrants; it’s made out of immigrants. We have been contributing, not just Indians, but all immigrants, have been contributing for themselves and for the country. It’s just because of our broken system that we are stuck in line and treated unfairly. Courtesy of Molika Gupta Molika Gupta. “I think the most devastating effect was on my confidence.” — Molika Gupta, Sterling Heights, Michigan I came to the U.S. as the wife of student, then became a student myself. In 2015, the company I was working with filed my H-1B, but it was not picked up in the lottery. I had no option but to convert my visa status to H-4. Before I changed to the H-4, I was constantly on my toes, studying, working, pursuing my passion, meeting people. I went from attending meetings on Monday mornings while I was working, to watching Netflix on Monday morning the next week. During the two years that followed, it was a period of all the emotions a person can go through, from depression to loneliness to questioning your self-worth. It was a dark period of my life and my career. I think the most devastating effect was on my confidence. Even if you have a supportive spouse, it’s about the basic decision-making power, a sense of freedom. I would say it took me a good year to really embrace the fact that I cannot work and after that, I just wanted to understand what else I can utilize my life for. That’s when I decided to pursue my passion of writing and building a community of immigrant spouses who are in a similar situation like me. I started a Facebook group [Immigrant Spouses ReWrite Your Story]. The biggest goal was to connect to other spouses, men or women, who are on different journeys with different visa categories, to know how they’re pursuing their skills, how they’re waking up every day and putting a smile on their faces. After the EAD, I felt like I can visualize my future again. All the EAD does is give you the eligibility to apply. We are competing with the same highly skilled competent workforce. Right now, I’m working as a freelance professional and I’m looking for full-time opportunities. There’s still a gap in my resume that has posed questions and it’s difficult to make employers understand why these gaps are there. It’s still very difficult to find a position even after the H-4 EAD. If the EAD is revoked, I’m clueless about what I’m going to do. The thought of leaving this place I call home shatters me to the core. CORRECTION: A previous version of this story incorrectly stated that Molika Gupta came to the U.S. as a student. She came as the wife of a student. The story has also been corrected to clarify who is eligible for an H-4 EAD.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights TSA received more than 30,000 claims of missing valuables between 2010-2014 Most of the missing valuables were packed in checked luggage Miami-Dade police set up hidden cameras as part of sting Miami (CNN) Inside a plane at Miami International Airport, baggage handlers are going on a shopping spree with passengers' bags. What they don't know is that they are being recorded on a hidden camera. The Miami-Dade Police Department set up the camera as part of an ongoing police investigation into luggage thefts by the very airport workers who are supposed to get bags safely onto planes. CNN Investigations Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. "It's a problem we all face," said police Lt. Pete Estis. "We will continue to be proactive until we can see that the claims of pilfering through luggage will actually decrease." Miami Aviation Director Emilio T. González said the insider theft cases "are indeed the exception among the thousands of decent, hardworking employees at MIA, and they have been prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law for their crimes." And these insider thefts just don't happen in Miami. A CNN analysis of passenger property loss claims filed with the TSA from 2010 to 2014 shows 30,621 claims of missing valuables, mostly packed in checked luggage. The rest occurred at security checkpoints. Total property loss claimed: $2.5 million.
Two gay men were holding hands while walking home from a nightclub early Sunday morning in Denver when a man attacked the couple, stabbing them multiple times. “We were just walking and I guess he didn’t like what he saw ... that we were holding hands,” Chris Huizar, 19, told local outlet 9News on Sunday. Huizar and his boyfriend, Gabriel Roman, 23, were walking home from a dance club called The Church just after midnight when the two said they heard a man yell “fuckin’ faggots” before he attacked the couple with a folding knife. Huizar was stabbed in the neck and Roman was stabbed in the hand and back before they were able to escape.
The Danish Parliament voted on Thursday to ban clothing that covers the face, including the niqab and burqa worn by some Muslim women. Denmark’s center-right government enacted the law with a vote of 75-30, with 74 absent, The Associated Press reported. The decision puts the country in league with France, Austria and Belgium, which have adopted similar laws. The government said that the law is not aimed at any specific religion. Along with Islamic full-face veils, balaclavas would also be banned, Agence France-Presse reported. The law does not ban headscarves, turbans, Jewish skull caps or face coverings worn for a “recognizable purpose” during cold weather or while riding a motorcycle. Still, the law has become known as a “burqa ban” directed at Muslim women who wear veils as part of their spiritual practice. The burqa covers the face completely, leaving a net screen for women to see through, while the niqab leaves the area around the eyes open.
Byron Cohen via Getty Images In one of the most memorable scenes from “Grey’s Anatomy” Season 2, intern Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo) and head of neurosurgery Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey) get it on in a Seattle Grace Hospital exam room while their colleagues attend a prom-style event for Richard Webber’s (James Pickens Jr.) cancer-stricken teenage niece. The pair, having been torn apart by the sudden employment of Derek’s estranged wife and fellow doctor Addison (Kate Walsh), dramatically reunite in only the way a fated TV couple can, culminating in Meredith’s misplaced underwear being pinned on a staff bulletin board. The whole thing is hot. It’s steamy. And it’s incredibly far-fetched. Or is it? There are lots of medical dramas on the air ― “Grey’s,” “Chicago Med,” “9-1-1,” “Code Black,” “The Resident,” etc. And each and every one features an unbelievable sex scene, during which surgeons hook up with interns (or nurses hook up with doctors, or chiefs hook up with residents ― you get it), turning their hospital’s on-call room into a veritable den of (consensual) sex among otherwise expertly professional co-workers. Ahead of the “Grey’s” Season 14 finale, we found ourselves contemplating several questions. Will April Kepner (Sarah Drew) get a happy ending? Will Alex (Justin Chambers) and Jo’s (Camilla Luddington) wedding go off without a hitch? Will Carina (Stefania Spampinato) follow Arizona (Jessica Capshaw) to New York? But none were more pressing than this longtime contemplation: Are the sex scenes on the show realistic? So, HuffPost decided to get down to it and ask medical professionals what really happens in on-call rooms. Behold, the truth: Scenario 1: Sex In The Supply Closet (Or The On-Call Room, Or Empty Exam Rooms...) In Season 2, Episode 16 of “Grey’s,” Izzie Stevens (Katherine Heigl) summons her friend-with-benefits Alex Karev (Justin Chambers) into a medical supply closet with the classic pickup line: “Do you want to stand there and talk metaphors or do you want to literally take off your pants?” Spoiler! He takes off his pants. Thus the question: Are doctors really hooking up in supply closets? According to Dr. Jen Gunter, a San Francisco Bay Area OB/GYN and author, most on-call rooms in hospitals are “gross and often you share them with someone else.” “I have never, ever in my 30-plus years in the medical field heard of anyone ever making out in a supply closet. I have never heard of anyone having sex in an on-call room. Might it happen very occasionally? I guess,” she said. A Philadelphia-based registered nurse named Meg (who preferred not to use her last name in this piece, because, well, who can blame her), said stairwells ― not supply closets, on-call rooms or exam rooms ― are where the secret hookups happen. “I don’t know of it ever happening in empty patient rooms or supply closets. People are in and out of the supply room on the units all the time,” she said. “I have heard of people getting caught in stairwells and I have also heard of people getting caught in locker rooms.” “I know of a girl hooking up in a stairwell,” Jessica, an RN based in Boston, said. “Less scandal than people think in general, though!” Eileen, a travel RN who’s worked in cities including New York, Seattle, San Diego and Boulder, said she knows of co-workers “sleeping with each other in their office and in an on-call room, always somewhere that has a lock on the door.” And a pediatrician in Westchester County, New York, who asked to remain anonymous, only wished life in a hospital was so exciting. “It may be that pediatricians are just way more boring than doctors in other specialties. I do know of a teenage patient who was caught hooking up with her boyfriend while admitted to the hospital ― we had to set up some stricter rules on visitors after that.” Scenario 2: Big-Shot Surgeons Who Hook Up With Their Junior Colleagues Throughout “Grey’s” Season 5, plastic surgeon Mark Sloan (Eric Dane) pursues intern Lexie Grey (Chyler Leigh) ― R.I.P., but let’s NOT relive that devastation ― despite warnings from Meredith and Derek against it. (Lexie is Meredith’s younger half-sister, after all.) The will-they-or-won’t-they, “inappropriate” relationship between Mark and Lexie became one of the most beloved by fans. But, do surgeons actually hook up with nurses, interns or students? “I am aware of a scrub tech nurse who was involved with an orthopedic surgeon. They had a sexual relationship and she would send him naked pictures, which he would email to himself in the call-dictation room and save to the computer there to look at,” a Virginia-based nurse practitioner, who preferred to remain anonymous, explained. “Needless to say, he didn’t always remember to close out of the pictures before leaving. We all knew a lot more about that nurse than we wanted to!” Meg said she knows a few residents who have dated junior colleagues, with some relationships eventually resulting in marriage. “We had a RN dating her manager ― it was kept hush-hush until she resigned and now they are married. Really it happens a ton!” she said. “I think there is a draw to a co-worker you spend lots of time with, who is smart and accomplished. They understand your stress level and what you go through. I think that it’s a lot harder to find a non-medical person who understands what a person in medicine would understand. Residents often marry other residents for this reason.” Still, the nurse practitioner said, television shows tend to amp up the drama in these budding romances. “I no longer watch medical shows very much. I dislike how much romance there is among staff members, because I feel like it’s unrealistic.” “It is a lie,” redditor TsukasaHimura reiterated in a thread about this topic. “Most doctors I work with are old and mean. I won’t have sex with any of them.” Eileen, however, said she actually knows of a few racy doctor-nurse hookups. “I have a friend who was engaged to be married and started working at my hospital. She started seeing this doctor we work with and started sleeping with him almost immediately. He was way older and not attractive, but he had money, power and gave her a whole lot of attention. I remember her telling me she would go into the staff bathroom and take nude pictures to send to him. I know they had sex in a staircase and in his office. She broke off her engagement because she felt guilty, and she did not end up with the doctor.” Scenario 3: Habitual Drunken Nights Out With Colleagues On many an occasion, the employees of Grey-Sloan Memorial Hospital head to their local bar, Joe’s Pub, to let loose. Darts are thrown, shots are taken, dancing ensues. Is Joe’s Pub a fantasy, or is there truth to those tequila-filled nights? “My nurse friends and I absolutely got hammered together,” the nurse practitioner said, with Jessica adding, “Nurses be crazy!” “I went out more when I worked a night shift. Bloody Mary’s and beers at 7:30 a.m. before going to bed is way better than you would think,” Eileen said. “I haven’t really seen a post-work outing get drunk, but I have definitely seen it at retirement parties, birthday parties, etc.” “All of the units I have worked on over the last 10 years always involved booze,” Meg said. “Usually, there is a bar or restaurant that is favored and you often see other employees there from different departments. I have also seen physicians out at restaurants being quite close to females that I know are not their wife!” The Westchester pediatrician, however, said drunken nights out have dwindled since the days of residency training. “I definitely went out frequently after shifts then. And getting drunk was certainly one way we coped with the stress and exhaustion of 80-hour work weeks during residency,” the pediatrician said. “I did know of colleagues who would go out to happy hour and then go to work a midnight ER shift. It was always a careful balance and calculation to make sure you were sober well before your shift started.” Scenario 5: All The Cheating Scandals In probably the most famous cheating scandal from “Grey’s,” Derek’s wife Addison sleeps with his best friend, Mark Sloan. (McDreamy vs. McSteamy, remember? Both of them are now dead, unfortunately.) The affair is told over the course of a few seasons, leading to Derek’s eventual, on-and-off romance with Meredith. But how common are cheating scandals in hospitals? Common, it seems. “Worked in a place full of affairs between various staff members,” a doctor with a hidden username on Reddit wrote. “Got accused of it myself many times but was smart enough to not stick my hand in that trap.” “We had an attending who had an affair with a nurse and [he] got her pregnant,” a Chicago-based labor and delivery nurse, who chose to remain anonymous, told me. “He stayed with his wife and paid off the nurse.” “There have been wife visits that accidentally overlap with girlfriend visits that result in security being called,” Meg added. “When the baby stroller was thrown I just walked the other way.” The hospital atmosphere lends itself to flirtatious exchanges, the medical professionals explained, as long shifts or hours in surgery can grow dull. “There will always be doctors who are flirty and enjoy the interaction between young nurses and them in a position of power,” Meg said. Eileen watched a good friend’s marriage fall apart due to an affair with a doctor at her hospital. “One of my best friends was sleeping with a doctor we worked with, even though she was getting married soon after that happened. This doctor had some serious charm and tried to get in the pants of any young, attractive, female employee. It worked. On a lot of them. She even slept with him the night before her wedding,” Eileen revealed. “This continued post-wedding even though she tried to stay away. This doctor made sure he was always around and on her mind. She is now divorced and no longer has a relationship with this doctor.” “Being married can be hard. Relationships are hard,” Gunter explained. “Along the way I have met doctors who have left their spouses for other doctors or for nurses or other medical professionals. I wouldn’t call that a scandal. It’s not 1918.” Bonus Scenario 1: While We’re On The Subject, What About Drug Use? Sex isn’t the only taboo topic addressed on hospital shows. On the latest season of “Grey’s,” some of the residents accidentally eat weed cookies, and stereotypical madness ensues. We’ve also seen Amelia Shepherd (Caterina Scorsone) grapple with serious addiction issues on both “Grey’s Anatomy” and spinoff “Private Practice.” Are drugs a real issue in the medical world? Drug use is actually pretty common in hospitals, with some employees selling meds, as well. “There are physicians with addiction issues like there are in any field,” Gunter said. According to Meg, some of her co-workers have been caught using and distributing drugs on the job. “I know that in situations where nurses were using they were offered rehab and had strict rules to adhere to. They had to leave bedside nursing for treatment and once completed they were able to return to less stressful work in the hospital under more supervision until they were deemed ready for greater responsibility,” she said. “I think for the most part things are kept very quiet when these situations occur.” “My un-expecting co-worker was fired for stealing drugs,” Jessica said. “This happens more often than people think.” “I live in Colorado. Most of my coworkers smoke pot, but not on the job and not before going to work,” Eileen added. “I do know of two nurses who have stolen IV and PO pain medications for themselves. I do not know if they were ever impaired while working, but they were both caught and neither will ever be a nurse again.” Bonus Scenario 2: Tell Us About The Ghosts In Season 5 of “Grey’s,” Izzie, hallucinating thanks to a brain tumor, strikes up a romance with a ghost version of her late fiancé, the adored and never forgotten Denny Duquette (Jeffrey Dean Morgan). (This whole storyline was reportedly concocted to give Heigl the “Emmy-worthy material” she wanted. Instead, it led some viewers, and Heigl, to quit the show.) Actually, spirits were common enough on “Grey’s,” and for the 300th episode, Shonda Rhimes brought back “ghosts” or look-alikes of Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh), George O’Malley (T.R. Knight) and Izzie to bring viewers back to the early days of Seattle Grace Hospital. As chilling as it sounds, spirits do exist in hospitals, at least according to Meg. “Sometimes monitors do weird things or you feel a tingle on the back of your neck! If you believe in spirits you have to think they are there. So many souls are departing from the hospital every day. If you can’t open the window, I have known nurses that flush the toilet to let the spirt leave!” All in all, however, the lives of doctors or nurses on medical dramas are markedly more implausible than their real-life counterparts. Most of the sources I spoke to said they don’t really watch the procedurals anymore, as the storylines are overly dramatic and fairly unrealistic. Eileen admitted, “I definitely see similarities: dealing with a patient who goes into cardiac arrest, a massive trauma, hospital overload due to a natural disaster, a gunman in the hospital. However, these are more rare than commonplace. Maybe once or twice a month I have shift as crazy as one they portray on TV.” “I think some shows do a better job,” Meg added. ”‘Nurse Jackie’ did a better job than most.” In Gunter’s opinion, “Scrubs” “got to the heart of medicine the best.” “From what I remember, I think ‘ER’ was the most accurate,” the pediatrician added. “The drama on ‘Grey’s Anatomy’ definitely was way more extreme than anything I encountered in a real hospital.”
Getty Images The European Union has proposed a ban of several types of single-use plastics, including straws, disposable cutlery and plates. Alarmed by the sheer quantity of plastic clogging our oceans, the European Union is mulling ambitious new rules that would reduce or outrightly prohibit many everyday single-use plastic items. The proposed measures, unveiled Monday by the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, target the top 10 plastic products most often found on Europe’s beaches. Some of these items — like plastic straws, cotton buds, plates and disposable cutlery — will be banned completely under the new rules, which require the approval of the European Parliament and all 28 EU member states. For other products, like plastic bags and food containers, producers will be required to help cover the costs of waste management and clean-up, and member states will be obligated to raise awareness about the negative impacts of using such items. 500,000 tonnes of EU plastic waste end up in the sea every year. Building on our #PlasticsStrategy, we're tackling 10 single-use plastic products and fishing gear that account for 70% of the marine litter in Europe. We can only solve this urgent issue together. #CircularEconomy pic.twitter.com/TRKwHr6zjg — European Commission 🇪🇺 (@EU_Commission) May 28, 2018 EU countries will also be required to collect 90 percent of single-use plastic drink bottles by 2025. Improved waste management of abandoned and lost fishing gear, which accounts for almost 30 percent of Europe’s beach litter, is also mandated in the proposal. “Plastic can be fantastic, but we need to use it more responsibly,” Jyrki Katainen, a European Commission vice president, said in a press release announcing the draft rules. “Single-use plastics are not a smart economic or environmental choice, and today’s proposals will help business and consumers to move towards sustainable alternatives. This is an opportunity for Europe to lead the way, creating products that the world will demand for decades to come, and extracting more economic value from our precious and limited resources.” Reducing harmful plastic litter is an opportunity for European businesses. We can create sustainable products that the world will demand for decades to come, and extract more economic value from our precious resources.#PlasticsStrategy #PassOnPlastic pic.twitter.com/19mCvxlJOq — European Commission 🇪🇺 (@EU_Commission) May 28, 2018 According to CNN Money, it could take three or four years for the rules to be enforced. But if they are, the European Commission said the measures are expected have a profound financial and environmental impact. Consumers would save about $7.6 billion per year, 30,000 jobs would be created and about 3.7 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions would be avoided by 2030, the commission said. It added that though the rules are expected to cost businesses over $3.5 billion annually, companies also stand to benefit from the new measures. “Having one set of rules for the whole EU market will create a springboard for European companies to develop economies of scale and be more competitive in the booming global marketplace for sustainable products,” the commission said in a press release. “By setting up re-use systems (such as deposit refund schemes), companies can ensure a stable supply of high-quality material. In other cases, the incentive to look for more sustainable solutions can give companies the technological lead over global competitors.” This will also mean more sustainable choices for consumers, said Frans Timmermans, the commission’s vice president. “What this means in practice is that you won’t see single-use plastic cotton buds on your supermarket shelves, but ones made with more environmental friendly materials instead,” Timmermans told The New York Times. “The same will go for straws, drink stirrers, sticks for balloons, cutlery and plates.” “You can still organize a picnic, drink a cocktail and clean your ears, just like before,” he said. “And you get the added bonus that when you do so, you can have a clear conscience about the environmental impact of your actions.” Find out more here on the measures we are proposing:https://t.co/d4yELh419R pic.twitter.com/rGS0yzaCtu — Frans Timmermans (@TimmermansEU) May 28, 2018 Environmental groups have lauded the EU’s proposal as a significant step in the right direction, though some have suggested the rules don’t go far enough. The plastics industry is expected to push back against the proposed regulations. Plastics Europe, a trade group representing European manufacturers, criticized the proposal, saying in a press release that “plastic product bans are not the solution” and “alternative products may not be more sustainable.”
KAIRANA, Uttar Pradesh — Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath wore saffron robes and roared into the mike at a rally ground in Shamli, Mriganka Singh — the candidate he was campaigning for in Kairana — wore a light green saree and delivered a barely audible address to the throng of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters. On first impressions, the contrast between the two could not have been starker. Singh is the daughter of BJP's Hukum Singh, the former MP from Kairana, who once floated the (now disproved) theory of a Hindu exodus in his constituency, and quietly echoes the Hindutva themes that her Chief Minister holds dear. Hukum Singh died earlier this year; his daughter Mriganka — a 59-year-old single mother of three girls and a boy, (a doctor, an engineer, a lawyer and law student) — entered politics in 2017, but lost to Nahid Hasan of the Samajwadi Party. Now, she is up against Hasan's mother, Tabassum Hasan, who is the candidate for the united opposition led by the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD). For the BJP, winning Kairana is a matter of prestige, especially after its by-poll losses in Gorakhpur and Phulpur. By-poll losses are largely responsible for BJP's reduced seats in Lok Sabha - 282 seats in 2014 to 272. In a conversation with HuffPost India, Singh talked about her disenchantment with religious polarisation and the kind of leader that she hopes to be. Your father floated the idea of a Hindu exodus, but it turned out not to be true. There was time two years back when people were living in fear and agony because of the criminality in the area. A lot more criminals were very dominant and they were getting protection by the present family that is contesting. There was a total law and order breakdown. The police would take no action against the people belonging to one community. There were three or four murders because the criminals demanded ransom money and they refused to pay. People were killed sitting in their shops. You are saying there was an exodus? Yes, to an extent, yes. The numbers have been different. It may not have been 300, even if it was 30 who left the town of fear, it is the same. The numbers may have been exaggerated because the numbers were given by local party workers. Some of those on the list had only gone for business. There is a difference between 30 and 300. I didn't mean just 30. I said that to make a point, there were a few things here and there. Some people left not in the past two years, but the past five years, but there was a problem. There is no denying that communal color given to it. There is no communality attached to it. It was about the deterioration of law and order and lack of policing. The criminals, who incidentally belong to one particular community, were getting more emboldened because no action was being taken against them.Criminals do not have any religion. A criminal can belong to any caste, creed or community. But, at that point of time, a lot more criminals were coming from this community and they were getting patronage from this family. There is no communality attached to it. It was about the deterioration of law and order and lack of policing. Has the problem been solved? Yes, absolutely. A few families have been even returned and set up business again. The law and order situation has improved. Earlier, they were petty robberies, people from one particular community, because they are poor, would steal cows and sell them. That is over now. The cows can now stay open and farmers don't have to worry. You never say Hindu or Muslim. I don't like taking the name of any community. Everybody knows the situation and I don't want get into communalism. I just want to be neutral. Here, people are uneducated and they talk like this - Hindu-Muslim. There is nothing like that, everyone comes to our house all the time. All right-minded people will appreciate my efforts. I don't like taking the name of any community. Everybody knows the situation and I don't want get into communalism. I just want to be neutral. BJP leaders repeatedly raised polarising issues, Jammu and Kashmir, Muzaffarnagar riots, in their speeches. You are the face of the campaign. How do you feel about it? That was a bitter truth. I have the same opinions, I share the same thoughts. What they spoke was okay, 80 percent of it was alright, it was based in fact. Why is the government dropping cases linked to the Muazaffarnagar riots? The government at that point of time implicated people to appease Muslims because they were agitating. There are genuine cases, but certain people did get implicated and that is also a reality. Your party has a divisive ideology. How will you survive? The party had certain origins, but I think leaders have done a reality check, and there can be no other way forward other than 'sab ka saath, sab ka vikas.' I'm not divisive. I'm a very neutral person. I don't have strong opinions. I like to be balanced. I believe in live and let live. You wait and see the results on the 31st. I believe a lot of Muslims will vote for me. These are the kind of vibes I'm getting so let's see if it turns into votes. I believe a lot of Muslims will vote for me. The BJP is at a disadvantage because of the sugarcane crisis. How are you dealing it? The government has taken very serious notice of the problem. The crisis is because of over production of sugarcane. There is three times more yield. The total payment that has been released is more than it was two years back. There is also misinformation and the party cadres are trying to inform people about the reality. People tell me that is one of the hardest fought election. There are some 500 people working on this campaign, MLAs, ex-MLAs, ex-MPs. What do you make of the controversy over Jinnah's portrait in AMU? Even if it is not there, it is okay, but it could have been left alone. This generation is not connected with it, but perhaps the people who put it up, when they did in the past, had some sentiment with it. I don't know why it became such an issue. I don't know why it became such an issue. Was it difficult being a single mother to four children. No. I spent 25 years raising my children, but with my father's blessings things have always been easy for me. My four sisters have been living in America for the past 40 years. I was his favorite. I got love from both my mother and father. I have three daughters, one is an engineer, another is a doctor and the third is a doctor. My son is still with me. Are you running to honor your father's memory or because you want to be in politics? I've been inspired by my father. I have always been very closely connected to him and his politics. But I also want to be in politics. I aspire to be in politics. My dad saw this and that is why he gave me the opportunity. I ran in 2017 and lost, but I have not given up. What will you be your priority if you win? I want to improve the health facilities in the area. These are in a pathetic state. It makes me feel so sad. There is hardly any infrastructure. The doctors don't want to serve in the villages. People have to come to town to get health facilities. Education is still okay, at least the master comes and there is some infrastructure, but health is completely neglected. I want to improve the health facilities in the area. These are in a pathetic state. Also on HuffPost India:
Now Tesla has another battle on its hands, this time with unhappy shareholders. They argue that Tesla's board has failed to hold its charismatic but controversial CEO Elon Musk to account about the company's finances and performance, rubber stamping Musk's decisions instead. Three Tesla directors are up for a vote at next week's annual meeting, and one activist shareholder firm wants to dump all of them. Among them are Kimbal Musk, brother of CEO Elon Musk. That effort is being led by CtW Investment Group, which works with union-sponsored pension funds. At the same time, the advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services is calling to defeat the other two directors who aren't named Musk -- James Murdoch, the CEO of 21st Century Fox (FOX) and son of Rupert Mudoch, and Antonio Gracias, head of Valor Management, an early investor in Tesla. Related: Here's what you get when you buy Tesla's $35,0000 Model 3 In a letter CtW filed with the SEC early this month, the company wrote, "We admire Tesla as a successful innovator with an environmental mission; however, its continuing success looks more tenuous than ever. Especially in light of CEO Elon Musk's startling refusal to answer straightforward questions from analysts on a recent investor call, Tesla shareholders need to let the board know that it must raise its game." Tesla also faces a shareholder resolution calling for the automaker to split jobs of chairman and CEO between different people, rather than allowing Elon Musk to hold both positions. The shareholder's meeting is set for June 5. Tesla has been under fire for much of this year. The automaker has struggled to ramp up production of its new of Model 3 sedans, and that's stoked questions as to whether Tesla could run out of cash later this year. The company's credit rating has been reduced further into junk bond status and its once high-flying stock is down 7% for the year. Still, Musk has dismissed all of these concerns repeatedly, and made a bold promise to turn a profit in both the third and fourth quarter of this year. Efforts like CtW's campaign virtually always fall short. But Tesla is taking the matter seriously, responding Tuesday evening in its own letter to shareholders defending the board members up for election. Related: Elon Musk has more to say about the media In its letter, CtW argues that Kimbal Musk's "renomination goes to the heart of the problems with Tesla's board: Too many of these directors, including all three of this years' nominees, are incapable or unwilling to contradict Elon Musk's whims." CtW also objects to Gracias being considered an independent director, given his long-standing business relations with Musk. The letter said Gracias has invested in a number of Musk ventures, including SpaceX, the privately held rocket company that also has Musk as CEO. Gracias is also a director of that company. Finally, CtW says that Murdoch doesn't have the needed expertise in manufacturing and engineering and has worked almost exclusively for companies in which his father is the controlling shareholder. It points out that Tesla recently added another media executive, Linda Johnson Rice of CEO of Ebony Media and Johnson Publishing, to its board. "It is not clear why Tesla would need two directors with media but not automotive backgrounds," said CtW. But Tesla is defending all three directors, noting that Murdoch is an experienced CEO who has scaled and run large successful global companies. It also says that Gracias is an experienced operator who has run factories and an auto parts company and is advising on ramping up Model 3 production. And the automaker argues that Kimbal Musk has been a successful entrepreneur and technology investor.
Joseph Holt is an ethics professor at the University of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business. He is a former Jesuit priest and corporate attorney. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. (CNN) The public utterances of Roseanne Barr have long brought to my mind the title of the country song "From the Gutter to You Ain't Up." But she took it to a new level Tuesday when she posted a racist tweet describing Valerie Jarrett, who is black and a former senior adviser to President Barack Obama, as the offspring of "muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes." Even for her, that was low. ABC quickly and admirably did the right thing by canceling "Roseanne." ABC president Channing Dungey explained that, "Roseanne's Twitter statement is 'abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values.'" Barr apologized Tuesday to Jarrett and "all Americans" for "making a bad joke about her politics and her looks." She acknowledged she "should have known better" and that her joke "was in bad taste." She also apologized to the many writers and actors who are now unemployed thanks to her incivility. The apologies and hard consequences of having her show canceled and being dropped by her talent agency might have put the matter to rest. But on Wednesday Barr made the mistake of taking to Twitter again to lash out at ABC and her co-stars. She started by saying her outrageous comment had something to do with having taken her sleep aid, Ambien. Sanofi, the manufacturer of that product, responded that "racism is not a known side effect of any Sanofi medication." In a breathtaking series of retweets, she then implied that ABC had applied a double standard, since it tolerated a Keith Olbermann tirade against President Donald Trump, and claimed that Disney treated Harvey Weinstein better than it treated her. (She later deleted some of her tweets and retweets.) All of which indicates Barr still doesn't get it. ABC got that there are basic standards of decency in a civil society comprised of a rich mix of people and that observing them matters. Whether they get that on moral grounds or just get that they'd lose advertisers, as Bill O'Reilly and Laura Ingraham had, I'm not sure. I suspect it was a combination of both, and concern about lost advertising revenue is compatible with genuine moral concern. But either way, they get it. Barr still doesn't get that decency matters. If she did, she wouldn't be acting as if perceptions of her being treated unfairly matter more than her indecency. She would be looking at the person in the mirror rather than lashing out at others. The other thing that Barr, like the President with whom she is in a mutual fan club, still doesn't get is that it's not about them; it's about all the people negatively affected by them. Barr makes a plainly racist comment about a civil servant who always conducted herself with grace, dignity and intelligence, and she is acting as if what is most important is that some believe she's not being treated fairly. Really? President Trump definitely believes it's always about him. At a time of growing racial tension, you would expect the leader of the nation to address the problem as President Obama tried to at the "beer summit" involving Harvard Professor Henry Louis Gates and the white police officer investigating a report of a break-in who arrested Gates on the porch of his own home. But Trump clearly believed that something far more important than racial harmony was at play in all this: his self-image. He took to Twitter asking why ABC's Bob Iger hadn't apologized to him for "horrible statements made and said about me on ABC." Bob Iger of ABC called Valerie Jarrett to let her know that "ABC does not tolerate comments like those" made by Roseanne Barr. Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC. Maybe I just didn't get the call? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018 (White House press secretary Sarah Sanders later explained that Trump was talking about a "double standard" and added, "No one is defending her comments. They were inappropriate.") The American people are famously forgiving when leaders and celebrities own up to their mistakes and are contrite about them. But forgiveness is not forthcoming when there is no accountability and apologies are insincere. ABC was genuinely sorry the star of one of its shows had made a racist comment and will likely not suffer in terms of ratings or advertising revenues as a result. Barr herself initially seemed to be genuinely sorry, but her subsequent actions make clear that she isn't. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook Meanwhile, the President is never sorry for anything and famously never apologizes. And so far he has been able to get away with his own racism and incivility. But he may be truly sorry come the elections in which his own reality show is canceled.
Former Liberal prime minister Jean Chretien says the federal government had no choice but to buy the controversial Trans Mountain pipeline and Kinder Morgan Canada's core assets for $4.5 billion. "We have to do it," Chretien, who served as PM from 1993 to 2003, told HuffPost Quebec Wednesday. "We have oil in Canada and we would be the only country in the world having oil and not (selling it)." Chretien said the impasse between the governments of Alberta and British Columbia over an expansion of the pipeline from Edmonton to Burnaby, which spurred Kinder Morgan to sell the contentious project to the federal government, was a complication. "It's kind of funny for me," he said. "You've got an NDP government fighting an NDP government." Chretien also downplayed concerns that the feuding between the two Western provinces presented a national unity issue. B.C. Premier John Horgan has already said that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's decision does nothing to change his opposition to the project. "If you do nothing, you will be in a mess," Chretien said. "And when you do something, there's always somebody who's not happy. National unity is not having a party every night. You have to solve problems. And I think Mr. Trudeau had no choice. And Canada has no choice." Opposition parties feel differently. Conservatives have blasted Trudeau for sinking public money into the project, something they say is being done to cover up his own "failure." Federal New Democrats, who oppose the Trans Mountain pipeline, say the decision flies in the face of Trudeau's commitment to making Canada a climate change leader. Chretien also gave Trudeau good marks on how he is handling NAFTA negotiations with U.S. President Donald Trump and suggested he was not worried about the U.S. walking away from the deal. "You cannot undo an omelette," he said. Chretien, now 84, was also asked about Trudeau's push to legalize marijuana. In 2003, Chretien's government introduced legislation to decriminalize pot possession, but the bill died after Parliament was prorogued. "I thought that for somebody who smoked marijuana and had a criminal record, it was too much. Everybody now is legalizing it," he said. Though he famously joked at the time about trying pot once it was decriminalized, he said he has no interest to give it a try once it becomes legal this summer. "I never smoke. So, I don't know if I need it or not. No doctor has recommended to me that I need it to be in good shape." With files from Catherine Lévesque
OTTAWA — The Senate has rejected an attempt to prohibit Canadians from growing a small number of marijuana plants at home once recreational cannabis is legalized. Conservative Sen. Vern White proposed an amendment to Bill C-45 that would have banned home cultivation entirely across the country. The amendment was defeated by a vote of 40-33. Senators have already accepted 40 amendments proposed earlier this week by the Senate's social affairs committee, one of which would authorize provinces to ban home cultivation if they choose — as Quebec and Manitoba intend to do — or restrict the number of plants even further than proposed in the legislation. Under the bill, Canadians would be allowed to grow up to four plants per dwelling. A number of senators say they share the concern that homegrown pot plants could make cannabis more accessible to children, lead to environmental health problems from excessive humidity and mould and cause problems in multiple-unit dwellings. But they say letting provinces decide for themselves whether to ban home cultivation is a reasonable compromise. Earlier:
A bit of dry British humor on a muggy day did not amuse some Taylor Swift fans. BBC Radio 1’s Greg James lightheartedly told the pop superstar “I think you need to have a shower now” after she performed at the Biggest Weekend festival in Swansea, Wales, on Sunday. A sweaty Swift, who sang an energetic six-song set in high humidity, appeared to take the comment in stride. “I agree,” she said. “And I’m not offended that you said that. There’s a lot going on and none of it’s good here.”
A MAC cosmetics makeup tutorial video for Ramadan has sparked some debate among Muslims online ― and, perhaps unintentionally, ended up highlighting how differently the holy month of fasting is celebrated around the world. MAC Cosmetics Middle East, a regional branch of the New York–based company, published a video on its social media last week that proposed a makeup look for suhoor, a predawn meal eaten during Ramadan before Muslims begin the day’s fast. After eating suhoor, Muslims observing Ramadan refrain from eating and drinking from until sunset, when the fast is broken with the iftar meal. In the makeup tutorial, MAC makeup artist Mariam Khairallah demonstrated a custom look for the holiday. In a video titled “Get Ready for Suhoor,” she applies eyeliner, eyeshadow and mascara on a model. “You’re only a few steps away from your glamorous gathering look with friends & family!” the company wrote on the Instagram video. Ramadan is a very social month, and many partake in the festive spirit by gathering at parties to break the fast with friends and families. But some pointed out that while it’s common to dress up for the evening iftar meal, many usually eat suhoor in their pajamas, scarfing down food hurriedly in the dark. In New York, the meal is typically eaten before 4 a.m. Some Muslims took to social media to share how their experience of suhoor is not nearly as glamorous as MAC makes it out to be.
(CNN) An explosive new book co-written by a former intelligence chief has caused an uproar in Pakistan, prompting authorities to bar the author from leaving the country while they investigate him. The book, "The Spy Chronicles: RAW, ISI and the Illusion of Peace," was published by Harper Collins India and was released in Pakistan on Wednesday and published in India on May 23. Asad Durrani, a retired Lieutenant General, was head of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the country's powerful spy agency, from 1990 to 1992. He co-authored the book with A.S. Dulat, the ex-chief of India's Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) intelligence agency. It's made headlines in both countries -- for the fact that two former spy chiefs from two rival countries joined forces to write it and revelations that include Pakistani intelligence being aware of the whereabouts of Osama Bin Laden before he was killed in a 2011 raid by the United States. The military said late Monday that Lt. Gen. Durrani would be placed on an exit control list that effectively prevents him from leaving the country and summoned him to ISI headquarters where "formal Court of Inquiry headed by a serving Lt. Gen has been ordered to probe the matter in detail." Read More
Think all engagement photos are painfully awkward and cheesy beyond belief? Think again. On Tuesday, Junebug Weddings announced the winners of their 2018 “Best of the Best Engagement Photography” contest, and the images are a cut above the rest. A panel of judges, along with the Junebug team, sifted through nearly 6,000 images from all around the world, but only 50 photos made it into the final collection. See 23 of our favorite pictures below. You can view the collection in its entirety on the Junebug Weddings website.
How does the most popular new TV show in America get canceled in a matter of hours? On Tuesday we found out. All it takes is a few derogatory tweets by a star, in this case Roseanne Barr, and a few conference calls by network executives. Executives at ABC and its parent company, Disney, decided early in the day to pull the plug on "Roseanne." The view inside Disney, according to sources, was that Tuesday was the third or fourth time when Barr's tweets had presented a problem for ABC. This controversy was by far the worst yet. Tuesday's racist and bizarre tweets were "unsurvivable," one of the sources said. "Enough was enough." Related: The ABC executive who fired Roseanne hired her last year Barr was informed by phone ahead of time. But other "Roseanne" producers and cast members only found out about the decision when ABC issued a terse statement shortly before 11 a.m. Pacific time. Inside ABC, there's now a sense of pride in how quickly this controversy was contained -- but there are lingering questions about why the network got back in business with Barr to begin with. Here's a look at what happened, hour by hour: The ABC bosses woke up to Barr's overnight posts attacking Valerie Jarrett, Chelsea Clinton and George Soros. Clinton, on the East Coast, responded to Barr bright and early, at 7 a.m. Eastern time. She refuted Barr's conspiratorial claim that she is related to Soros. At the same time, one of Barr's other tweets -- the racist one equating Jarrett to an ape -- was catching fire from outraged Twitter users. Barr lives in Hawaii, but it's unknown if that is where she was tweeting from. By 9:30 a.m. Eastern, 3:30 a.m. in Hawaii, she was tweeting again, retweeting various conspiracies and responding to Clinton's comment. In her response, she advanced an anti-semitic and debunked idea about Soros. ABC is headquartered in Burbank, California. By 10 a.m. Eastern, 7 a.m. Pacific, ABC executives were talking by email and phone. Key executives included ABC Entertainment president Channing Dungey; her boss Ben Sherwood, the president of the Disney/ABC Television Group; and his boss Bob Iger, the CEO of Disney. Related: Disney CEO Bob Iger: It was the 'right thing' to cancel 'Roseanne' Around 10:30 a.m. Eastern, 7:30 a.m. Pacific, Barr tweeted out an apology to Jarrett. She said she was "leaving Twitter." But ABC had heard this before -- there have been past flare-ups when Barr pledged to stay away from the social network, only to come back days or weeks later. ABC executives thought -- and hoped -- that Barr would tone down her tweeting and focus on her sitcom. But that didn't happen. Barr held onto her beloved Twitter presence and the community she has cultivated there. So when Tuesday's tweets stirred outrage, the question within ABC quickly became, "Is there a path forward?" In other words, would any apology by Barr or sanction by ABC be sufficient? A call was arranged with Barr, her publicist, and executive producer Tom Werner, whose production company Carsey-Werner owns the sitcom. Barr was contrite on the call, according to a source. She was told that cancellation was a possibility. And by 9 a.m. Pacific time, it was clear to the virtually assembled executives that the sitcom was no more. "There was no way to come back from this," one of the sources said. While the executives were conferring, critics on social media were starting to point out the network's silence about the controversy. It was starting to get coverage on TV and on major news websites. ABC viewers, advertisers and rival networks were all watching to see what the network would say and do. It was easy to imagine an ad boycott against "Roseanne" and other ABC programs. However, ABC sources said advertisers were not a factor in the decision. Related: Why you've been seeing so many revivals of old TV shows After 9 a.m. Pacific, the conversation among the bosses turned to when and how to cancel the show. Meantime, some of Barr's colleagues were starting to speak out. Shortly after 9 a.m. Pacific, Wanda Sykes, a consulting producer on the series, said on Twitter that she wouldn't be a part of season two. Then one of the show's stars, Sara Gilbert, tweeted that Barr's comments were "abhorrent." She said the sitcom is "separate and apart from the opinions and words of one cast member." True -- but Barr's name is the title of the show. According to The New York Times, Tuesday happened to be the writing and producing staff's first day back at work for season two. An ABC source confirmed this and said the staffers were just beginning to arrive when the cancellation news hit at 10:48 a.m. Pacific. The executives decided that Dungey should issue the statement, and then Iger would follow up with a tweet. Dungey kept it to one sentence: "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show." Related: It's now a lot harder to watch 'Roseanne,' if you wanted to Later in the day, an ABC executive expressed regret that more than 200 people involved in the making of "Roseanne" would be out of work as a result of the cancellation. But the source pointedly blamed Barr, saying "that's the collateral damage that Roseanne has to live with." On Tuesday evening, Barr tweeted an apology to the show's cast and crew. "Don't feel sorry for me, guys!!-I just want to apologize to the hundreds of people, and wonderful writers (all liberal) and talented actors who lost their jobs on my show due to my stupid tweet," she said. Barr also said that she would appear on comedian Joe Rogan's podcast on Friday. Don't feel sorry for me, guys!!-I just want to apologize to the hundreds of people,and wonderful writers (all liberal) and talented actors who lost their jobs on my show due to my stupid tweet. I will be on Joe Rogan's podcast friday. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 30, 2018 Before and after that post, Barr retweeted fans who portrayed her as a victim of a liberal media double standard. One of the retweets claimed that "ABC is allowing the Trump haters to control their station." Some of the other tweets shared by Barr promoted new conspiracy theories. Her pledge to quit Twitter turned out to be very short-lived. Now there are many outstanding questions: -- What will ABC schedule Tuesdays at 8 p.m. this fall in place of "Roseanne?" -- Is there any possibility of a "Roseanne" sitcom without Barr? Some attempt to keep the cast and crew together in some way? -- Will there be any measurable backlash from her fans? -- Will President Trump comment at all? -- What will Barr do next? Werner, her longtime producing partner, told Deadline.com that he supported ABC's decision. He said he hoped "Roseanne seeks the help she so clearly needs."
(CNN) "Intermittent fasting," a dieting approach that involves cycling between periods of eating and abstaining from food, has been trending in diet circles. This is in part because reports claim that celebrities such as Beyonce, Hugh Jackman, Ben Affleck and Nicole Kidman are doing it but also because increasingly more research reveals that the eating pattern may promote weight loss and improve overall health. The method is not appropriate for everyone, however, particularly pregnant women and those with medical conditions such as diabetes or eating disorders. And though studies are promising, it remains to be seen if this type of eating can become a sustainable lifestyle habit instead of a drop-a-dress-size-in-a-week fad. "The jury is still out, especially on how healthy, sustainable and realistic this approach is," said Samantha Heller, a registered dietitian and senior clinical nutritionist at NYU Langone Health in New York. "Eating very low calories, or none, on alternate days feels punitive to many and may exacerbate an already difficult and complex relationship someone has with food." If you are still hoping to give intermittent fasting a try, there are some things to consider that can increase your chances of reaching your goals. Also, be sure to check with your doctor before starting a fasting regimen. Pick the level of fasting you can handle The appeal of intermittent fasting may be related to its simplicity, as it seems to require less effort than restricting calories every day. But there are different approaches to the eating pattern that vary in intensity. One regimen known as time-restricted feeding advises consuming all of your calories within a range of three to 12 hours a day, whereas an approach known as the "5:2" diet advises eating 500 to 600 calories for two days of the week and eating whatever you want on the other five days. A third, much more stringent type of regimen involves alternating 24-hour fasting periods (in which no foods or calorie-containing beverages are consumed) with non-fasting days, during which anything can be eaten in any amount. Though time-restricted feeding might not seem that different from a typical eating day, especially if you tend to skip breakfast, alternate-day fasting may cause intense hunger on fasting days and can be much more challenging to sustain. "People who are accustomed to eating regularly scheduled meals or suffer from 'head hunger' may find alternate-day fasting extremely difficult," said Kristen Smith, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Head hunger is the desire to eat when you are not physically hungry but are triggered to eat by emotions and social factors. For the greatest success, Smith recommends choosing a fasting regimen that best suits your lifestyle, your health history and your ability to sustain fasting. For example, alternate-day fasting may not be appropriate for someone with an active job that requires manual labor or a job that centers around food, such as a chef. Focus on protein and fiber-rich foods on semi-fasting days Protein and fiber-rich foods will keep you feeling full and satisfied, which is important when calories are strictly limited. Healthy fats such as nuts and peanut butter can also curb hunger but provide a lot of calories for a small portion size. If you are limiting your calories to about 500 to 600 per day, you might focus on one or two mini meals and snacks. Smith recommends a small piece of grilled salmon with half a cup of steamed veggies, grilled chicken over spaghetti squash, an egg-white omelet with veggies or black beans with a cup of veggies. For snacks, she favors fat-free plain Greek yogurt, two cups of plain popcorn, a cup of raw veggie sticks or a medium piece of fruit. High-volume foods such as soups may also help on semi-fasting days, as they can fill you up on fewer calories than solid foods. Additionally, meal replacement bars may provide a convenient option, especially if you don't feel like preparing food on fasting days. Don't gorge on non-fasting days Our bodies want to keep us alive. If we are consuming very few calories on certain days, when we do eat, our bodies are going to do everything they can to encourage us to eat a lot because they don't know when the next meal will be available, Heller explained. "We also feel that as a reward for sticking to 500 calories or less, we are allowed and 'deserve' to eat large portions of whatever we want," she said. That kind of reward can bring unintended consequences. "Overdoing it on a non-fasting day and eating excessive calories may actually lead to consuming an amount of calories you would consume in two days and defeat the purpose of a fasting day," Smith said. In other words, having pancakes with bacon for breakfast, a fried chicken sandwich for lunch and a cheeseburger with fries for dinner on a non-fasting day can stall weight loss and prevent you from reaching your goals. Don't go overboard with exercise on fasting days Strenuous exercise, such as cycling, running, high-impact aerobics and weight lifting, is not advised on fasting days because the body does not have the fuel available to sustain rigorous activity, Heller explained. If you want to do some form of physical activity on those days, Smith recommends sticking with walking, stretching or gentle yoga. Drink enough water If you decide to avoid food for any length of time, adequate hydration is important and should be maintained. "On a fasting day, someone may be more likely to become dehydrated because they aren't eating regularly scheduled meals, which is a common time people hydrate," Smith said. Foods such as fruits, vegetables and broth-based soups contain significant amounts of water and can help you stay hydrated. Those fasting should be cautious with caffeine-containing beverages, as they may contribute to dehydration, Smith said. Know when to stop If you experience lightheadedness, dizziness, fatigue, nausea, headaches,difficulty concentrating or any other symptoms that regularly interfere with your daily functioning, you should stop fasting. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "If any of these symptoms occur, it might be a good time to meet with a registered dietitian to discuss other dietary interventions that might be better suited for you," Smith said.
(CNN) There are few notable personalities on the northern side of the Korean peninsula's demilitarized zone. But one of them, Kim Yong Chol has been dispatched to the US, in the latest signal from Pyongyang that Kim Jong Un is serious about pursuing talks with US President Donald Trump. Kim Yong Chol, the vice-chairman of the Party Central Committee, has represented Kim Jong Un at key events this year, and is the young leader's top official in charge of relations between North and South Korea. JUST WATCHED Questions surround outcome of Trump-Kim summit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Questions surround outcome of Trump-Kim summit 01:23 His trip to the US was confirmed by Trump, who wrote in a tweet on Tuesday morning that Kim was traveling to New York. He called the North Korean leader's decision to send one of his top lieutenants a "solid response to my letter, thank you!" On his arrival in the US, Kim would be the most senior official to visit the United States since 2000, when Vice Marshal Jo Myong Rok traveled to Washington to meet with then-President Bill Clinton in the Oval Office. Madeleine Albright, who was Secretary of State at the time, traveled to North Korea later that month. Kim Yong Chol is a former head of North Korea's Reconnaissance Bureau, an espionage and special operations organization. He is believed to have been involved in a torpedo attack that sank the South Korean warship Cheonan in 2010, killing 46 South Korean sailors. Read More
President Donald Trump on Thursday canceled a scheduled June 12 summit in Singapore with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un after recent sparring between the two countries over the planned nuclear talks. “Sadly, based on the tremendous anger and open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting,” Trump wrote in a letter to Kim, which was sent to reporters. Read Trump’s letter (story continues below): Trump Letter by Anonymous FBZLGr on Scribd South Korean officials appeared blindsided by the announcement. “We are attempting to make sense of what, precisely, President Trump means,” said spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom, according to The Washington Post’s Anna Fifield. South Korean President Moon Jae-In urged both Trump and Kim to hold direct talks, South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency reported. It’s also unclear whether State Department officials were aware of Trump’s decision before he released the letter. When asked if the announcement came as a surprise, a staffer in the office that works on North Korea issues said he had to check with State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert. Speaking at the White House later Thursday, Trump said he had just spoken with military officials, as well as the leaders of South Korea and Japan. They are “ready for foolish or reckless acts be taken by North Korea,” he said, adding that “an unfortunate situation is forced upon us.” “Hopefully positive things will be taking place with respect to the future of North Korea. If they don’t, we are more ready than we have ever been before,” he said, apparently a threat of military action. On a call with reporters, a senior White House official asserted that Trump “had constant communication with our allies,” but did not explain why U.S. allies were caught off guard. The official did not say whether Trump and Kim had spoken directly. Of the letter, the official said Trump had “dictated every word himself.” Trump’s announcement came hours after North Korean officials threatened to cancel the summit, angered by recent comments from Vice President Mike Pence and national security adviser John Bolton, who compared North Korea with Libya. KCNA KCNA / Reuters North Korean leader Kim Jong Un speaks at a meeting in Pyongyang on May 18.
Alex Lubet is a professor of music at the University of Minnesota. Steven Lubet is a professor of law at Northwestern University. The views expressed in this commentary are their own. (CNN) Even people who don't care much about royal weddings were impressed by the way Prince Harry and Meghan Markle integrated Anglo-African and African-American elements into their wedding ceremony. Far from glossing over Markle's biracial heritage, the couple made a point of involving Rev. Michael Curry, the first African-American presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, as well as cellist Sheku Kanneh-Mason, the first black performer to be named Britain's Young Musician of the Year and a member of what Simon Cowell calls "the most talented family in the world." Then there was the gospel choir. As Salamishah Tillet described it in the New York Times, the "awesome power" of southeast London's Kingdom Choir "showcased the sheer breadth of a trans-Atlantic black identity" in its "rollicking rendition of Ben E. King's 'Stand by Me.'" She was right in her appreciation of the group's performance , which moved all wedding attendees. But there is a backstory to the song that makes it even more appropriate for such an inclusive occasion. It was the product of one of the celebrated cradles of American popular music, a place where artists from different backgrounds collaborated in the creation of a now classic sound. Tillet refers to "Stand by Me" as representative of the "African-American songbook," and, of course, it was first released and made famous by Ben E. King in 1961. King shared the credits, however, with Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller, two songwriters working in New York City's Brill Building. Like most of the writers and producers in that legendary music industry mecca, Leiber and Stoller were Jewish, while many of the vocalists were black. Leiber and Stoller had already written several hits for King's previous group, The Drifters, and, by 1960, they were working with him to develop his solo career. (Most of Leiber and Stoller's songs were written for black artists, but they had also written hits for Elvis Presley and even Perry Como.) The team had just finished recording "Spanish Harlem," which would become King's breakout success, and they used their remaining studio time to explore other possible recordings. King already had some lyrics in mind and the beginning of a tune, apparently based on an earlier "Stand by Me" (sometimes known as "Stand by Me Father") by Rev. Dr. Charles Albert Tindley, the African-American "Prince of Preachers." Leiber and Stoller worked with King to fill out the melody and complete the lyrics, with Stoller adding the signature bass line at the beginning of the song. They would divide the royalties equally, with half going to King, and half shared by Leiber and Stoller. Fittingly reflecting both the Christian and Jewish backgrounds of the composers, the lyrics to "Stand by Me" are clearly derived from Psalm 46 of the Hebrew scripture, by way of Tindley, a Methodist minister. As King, Leiber and Stoller memorably wrote it: When the night has come And the land is dark And the moon is the only light we'll see No I won't be afraid, No I won't be afraid Just as long as you stand, stand by me If the sky that we look upon Should tumble and fall Or the mountains should crumble to the sea I won't cry, I won't cry No I won't shed a tear Just as long as you stand, stand by me Whenever you're in trouble, won't you stand by me Oh stand by me, Oh won't you stand now? Stand by me And here is the beginning of the Bible Psalm: God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea; Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook In other words, "Stand by Me" embodies the very best of the American tradition, with artists from different backgrounds working together to create something uniquely wonderful and enduring. It is hardly surprising that the song has been recorded by artists as diverse as Jimmy Ruffin, John Lennon and Mickey Gilley. There was even a spoken-word version by Muhammad Ali. It's no doubt been played at countless weddings for couples of nearly every conceivable origin and upbringing. After "Stand by Me," King went on to crossover success, while Leiber and Stoller wrote a series of hits in multiple genres, including pop, R&B, country and rock. At a time when we increasingly hear complaints about "cultural appropriation," we would all do well to remember the virtue of cross-cultural collaboration, which can bring us great art. And, as the world has learned from the new Duke and Duchess of Sussex, it can also be the source of great romance.
(CNN) I'm often asked when couples should consider therapy. It's common for one partner to be unhappy, feel disconnected or feel that their needs for intimacy aren't being met. But rather than communicate about it, that partner may open up a metaphorical window with someone else and begin an affair. By the time the couple comes to therapy, the affair itself becomes the main topic, and its underlying causes are often ignored. The same scenario rings true for other sources of contention, from financial disagreements to sexual concerns. It's clear that couples shouldn't wait until they're in crisis mode to come to therapy, but what should they do? When is the right time to see a therapist? Couples should seek therapy long before they think they "need" to. Most experts believe that therapy can be an important part of your relationship. "Most issues within a couple start small and then grow in size when they don't get resolved. This is where therapy can help, by giving tools and techniques to improve conflict resolution," explained Kristie Overstreet, a licensed mental health counselor. "The majority of couples that I work with say that they should have started therapy years earlier." "There are three sides to every story: his side, her side and the truth," psychotherapist Kimberly Resnick Anderson agreed. "An objective third party can be just the ticket when couples feel they can no longer communicate effectively." Rather than viewing therapy as the solution to a crisis, look at it as an integral aspect of a healthy life, suggested Ashley N. Grinonneau-Denton, marriage and family therapist. "Every couple should take preventive measures to maintain health in their relationship, just like going to the gym," she said. "If couples don't work their relational and emotional 'muscles,' they become un-toned, weak and create more of a chance of damage being done to their relationship." What happens during couples therapy? Although every therapist is different, there are some commonalities. The first session typically involves the therapist getting to know you, discussing the areas of the relationship they hope to improve and setting goals. Some, but not all, therapists will assign homework for the couples to work on before the next session. "Ideally, most of the work gets done, in my experience, outside of my office," psychotherapist Samantha Manewitz said. What problems can benefit from therapy? Couples come to therapy for any number of reasons, but in my experience, in addition to infidelity, the greatest issues include sex, communication, money and major life changes such as getting married or starting a family. Couples therapy is also a good idea if one of you is coping with an issue that might be affecting your relationship (such as depression) or simply if you're feeling stuck and stagnant in your relationship. Therapy can provide a safe space to talk about sensitive topics such as sex. "Just like folks can get caught in a negative relational cycle, couples can often also get stuck in a negative sexual cycle," said Michael Moran, a certified sex therapist. "I tell couples that when the sex they're having is worth having, they'll have more of it. And so we need to explore what blocks exist to creating that place between them." Communication is also a big concern for couples. But simply talking with each other more isn't the answer. "There is communication, and then there's effective communication," explained Sara Nasserzadeh, a psychologist. "Both parties need to feel heard, soothed, respected and cared for first. We analyze old communication patterns and then replace them with feasible and more effective ones. These are all worked out collaboratively with the couple and within the context of their everyday life." You might also consider couples therapy to help support you at times of major life change and transition. "Getting married, becoming parents for the first time, moving, changing jobs, losing jobs, becoming empty-nesters, coping after extramarital affairs, recovering from addiction, caring for aging parents -- all of these transitions can destabilize a couple's equilibrium," Anderson said. "Therapy affords couples an opportunity to negotiate these transitions with as little disruption as possible and to explore and honor what a particular transition means to each partner." And don't discount the value of couples therapy in helping you and your partner dig yourselves out of a rut. "Therapy allows couples to talk through their feelings and articulate how their relationship may not be meeting their expectations," said James C. Wadley, a licensed counselor. "More often than not, there is some common ground that may have enabled them to be in the relationship. 'Feeling stuck' can shift if both parties are willing to compromise in a way so that individual needs are met." What if one partner refuses to go? This is a fairly common scenario in couples therapy. How you approach it can make a difference. "Talk with your partner extensively about why you're feeling you'd like to get into couples therapy," Moran said. "Don't just spring it on them and insist they go." If they're still hesitant, remember that you can attend therapy on your own. This alone may have a beneficial effect. "Instead of waiting for the other person who doesn't want to go to therapy to change, therapy can help strengthen your own self-improvement and personal growth," said Marissa Nelson, a marriage and family therapist. The hesitant partner may become impressed by these positive changes and decide to pursue therapy after all. If you think your own experiences with therapy have piqued your partner's curiosity, let them know that can see the therapist individually as well. "Often, by letting them know a safety zone will be created, where their voice is heard and fault or blame isn't the goal, the hesitant partner might feel safe to come in," psychotherapist Constance DelGiudice explained. How do you know if your therapist is a good fit? It helps to do your research before choosing a couples therapist, but the truth is that you won't really know whether they're the right for you and your partner until you get together. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. "I often arrange a phone call first with clients to make sure we are potentially a good fit," Nasserzadeh said. "Once you meet, pay attention to the therapist's communication style, the rational behind their questions and their general approach. "Any homework they assign should be explained clearly and makes sense to you and your line of logic." How long should therapy last? There's no one-size-fits-all answer to this question. It really depends on the couple and the issues they're working through. For some couples, a few sessions may be all they need to jump-start their relationship, while others may remain in therapy for years. In general, it's a good idea to see a therapist together until you've met your goals and feel confident that you've gained the skills necessary to navigate the ups and downs of your relationship.
MANGALORE, Karnataka -- "The big man is coming," said Narendra Nayak, as he turned his car towards the Nandigudda Graveyard in Mangalore city on Saturday. Nayak, a leading rationalist and a staunch critic of the Hindu right, was referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's election rally in Mangalore later in the day, but he had no time to dissect the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its politics further. The 67-year-old biochemistry professor, who heads the Federation of Indian Rationalists Associations, was preoccupied with another matter: black magic and its entry into the Karnataka Assembly polls. "A Congress leader was targeted," he said. "Black magic has entered the election." Earlier this week, Nayak received a frantic call about a "voodoo doll" found lying in a pit with neem leaves and lemons near the cremation ground in the city's main graveyard. SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later Facebook Twitter Youtube Nayak, who has devoted his life to combating superstition, black magic and godmen, said that he had never seen anything quite so "elaborate" in Mangalore. The voodoo doll appeared to be carved out of wood, covered in a blood stained white cloth and thread dipped in red kumkum powder. (Nayak suspects blood from an animal sacrifice). Three nails were pinned to its forehead, chest and navel. More than the doll, however, Nayak was bothered by the frightened faces and nervous mutterings of the people who had gathered around the pit. "No one dared touch it, remove it or even come near it," he said. "I immediately stomped on it to show them that there is nothing to be afraid of." The rationalist said, "I wanted to show them that I don't give a damn. This is just a rising cocktail of stupidity." I wanted to show them that I don't give a damn. This is just a rising cocktail of stupidity. After an hour had gone by without the police coming to take the doll away, Nayak started removing the white cloth and red thread around it. Curled up inside was a piece of paper bearing the name J.R. Lobo, a Congress party leader and the lawmaker from Mangalore South. It was written in Malayalam. Nayak, who has witnessed countless cases of black magic, said that evidence pointed to a ritual called the 'Aghori Kaali Machana Pooja,' which is conducted with the intention of harming a person. "Usually, one puts a piece of hair or a nail of the person that one wants to harm, but in this case, we found a piece of paper with the name," he said. READ: Fed By BJP And Congress, The Hindu-Muslim Divide Runs Dangerously Deep In Coastal Karnataka Rationalist Narendra Nayak stomps on a voodoo doll at the Nandigudda Graveyard in Mangalore, Karnataka in May, 2018. Whodunnit? Given that the ritual had targeted a Congress leader, Nayak has made a "safe assumption" about the culprits. Without evidence, however, he refuses to name names. A. Sudesh, the caretaker of the cremation ground who has been investigating how the culprits entered the graveyard, believes they came through the area where Protestant Christians bury their dead. Laughing, Nayak said, "They came from the Protestant graveyard into the Hindu cremation ground to perform black magic on a Roman Catholic." "The culprits appear to be very secular," he said. Sudesh, the caretaker, said, "I find it funny. If people think they can win an election by doing these things, it is funny." They came from the Protestant graveyard into the Hindu cremation ground to perform black magic on a Roman Catholic. Lobo, who is running to defend his seat, also refused to lay the blame on any person or party. "I'm a student of science. I'm a rationalist, but I also have faith in God. I don't have any fear," he said. "I laugh at them." On whether he was distressed about the vile nature of the ritual, Lobo said, "Only because it is a personal attack. This is an election. It is professional, not personal." READ: Actor Prakash Raj Talks About Pushback Against The BJP And How Gauri Lankesh's Murder Changed Him Voodoo doll found at the Nandigudda Graveyard in Mangalore city in May, 2018. Damage While the voodoo doll in Mangalore stands out for its vindictiveness, this is not the first time that Karnataka politics has dabbled in black magic and superstition. In 2011, when the BJP was in power in the state, then chief minister B.S. Yeddyurappa claimed that his enemies were engaging in sorcery, and reportedly decided to sleep in the nude for three days. He performed 12 surya namaskars in a river, also in the nude, to ward off evil. The BJP's leading man in Karnataka has reportedly participated in a ritual involving donkey sacrifice in order to subdue enemies. Former prime minister H.D. Deve Gowda, who leads Janata Dal (Secular) in Karnataka, has been accused of practicing black magic by fellow politicians. In 2015, when Congress workers were taking over the JD(S) office in Bengaluru, they found a lemon, chilly, vermilion wrapped in a red cloth, inside the premises. Just this week, Congress leader and a former chief minister of Karnataka, Veerappa Moily, said, "Mr. Gowda is only interested in black magic and astrology." Noting that black magic and superstition was a pan-India and pan-religion problem, which cut across economic and social backgrounds, Nayak said that it was deeply disturbing when politicians behaved irresponsibly because it encouraged others to do so. "If people see them using black magic to win elections or against their enemies, they too will try it, to get revenge, to cure sickness, amongst other things. It can have very dangerous consequences," he said. It can have very dangerous consequences. Last year, in Karnataka, a 10-year-old girl was killed in a human sacrifice by four persons who were trying to cure a paralysed man. A family tried to sacrifice a 14-month-old baby in the belief that it would lead them to find treasure. Seven people tried to bury alive a 11-year-old boy after an astrologer told them that it would bring them good fortune. Nayak, who tours the country educating people against black magic, said that he was stunned at the faith that people continued to have in godmen and the large sums of money they wasted on them. He recalled one case of an Indian living in Birmingham who was convinced that someone based in Jalandhar was targeting him with black magic, ended up sending £5,000 to a godman who was also based in Jalandhar. The rationalist noted that godmen were particularly exploitative towards women. A local court in Mangalore, he said, recently instructed a godman against "bathing" women - a remedy he had been advancing to ward off evil. It was only last year that the state legislature passed the Karnataka Prevention and Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Bill. Nayak, who fronted the campaign for a law against superstition and black magic, said that it had taken the murders of his friends, rationalist M.M. Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh, for the bill to be passed. "They are not here to see it," he said. READ: In Karnataka's Hindutva Heartland, A Catholic And A Muslim Find No Joy In Casting Their First Vote Also on HuffPost India:
(CNN) In Africa's battle for the skies, an east African carrier is stepping up its game in an effort to dominate the market. The state-owned Ethiopian Airlines, Africa's largest carrier by number of passengers, according to FlightGlobal , has taken stakes in a raft of carriers across Africa and opened routes to new destinations, like Manchester, UK. The expansion is part of the airline's 2025 Vision to become the leading aviation group in Africa, and increase the share of the market occupied by African airlines. "Twenty percent of the market is carried by African airlines and 80% of the market is carried by non-African airlines," said Tewolde Gebremariam, CEO of Ethiopian Airlines. "The market share has been declining for the last 20 years." Taking off Ethiopian Airlines is looking to fend off competition from South African Airways, the largest carrier by number of flights, according to FlightGlobal, EgyptAir, Royal Air Maroc and Kenya Airways. Tewolde told CNN that Ethiopian Airlines are expanding into West Africa with Togolese airline ASKY Airlines. They're also doing business with Air Cote d'Ivoire, Congo Airways and have taken management of CEIBA International in Equatorial Guinea. The airline has ambitious plans; Ethiopia is working with the Zambian government to relaunch their national carrier with a 45% stake, it also plans to establish a wholly-owned airline in Mozambique and has signed a contract to start an airline in Guinea. Ethiopian has also taken stakes in a Chadian airline. "Typically, they're taking a minority stake or around 50%. They tend to go into these joint ventures with local partners," said Oliver Clark, senior reporter at FlightGlobal. New routes Ethiopian Airlines is launching new routes from Addis Ababa to Jakarta Chicago and Geneva in the coming months. The airline is looking to make the Ethiopian capital a transport hub, connecting other African countries without long-haul capacity with continents around the world. "It's trying to feed traffic from other African countries through Addis to then give them the connectivity to travel on to other continents, US, Europe and Asia in particular," Clark said.
A bunch of candidates who have thrown their hats in the ring -- Donald Trump, George Pataki, Carly Fiorina, Ben Carson, Mike Huckabee, Bernie Sanders, Martin O'Malley -- have little chance of winning, so one is left to wonder: What do they hope to achieve? If winning isn't probable, what else can primary candidates intend to accomplish? There are a number of things that candidates can achieve for themselves or their parties without actually becoming the nominee. Selling a message: Often candidates want to make sure that their party colleagues are paying attention to certain issues. They feel that the existing leadership and crop of candidates are ignoring key problems that are central to the health of the nation. There are many people in public life who find this to be enough reason to undertake a serious campaign. This was why Sen. Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota entered the Democratic primaries in 1968, with the goal of making sure that Democrats who opposed the Vietnam War had a seat at the table. Julian Zelizer As a political veteran, Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont must realize that the odds of defeating Hillary Clinton are slim. Yet regardless of the outcome, he is bringing to the forefront of the party debate concerns about economic inequality, a broken political process and the rapid deterioration of the environment. Even if Sanders doesn't gain much traction in terms of actual votes, his ability to push Clinton toward dealing more squarely with these problems would be considered a victory. Mobilizing new constituencies: Sometimes losing politicians help to mobilize new constituencies into the party. Ronald Reagan did this with right-wing Southern conservatives in the 1976 Republican primaries when he challenged President Gerald Ford. Ford defeated Reagan, though barely, but Reagan brought into the party and energized conservatives who ordinarily had not voted in primaries like Texas. In 2004, Vermont Gov. Howard Dean used pioneering social media technology to attract younger liberals into the Democratic selection process. Although John Kerry won the nomination, only to lose to George W. Bush in the general election, the groups Dean energized would be central to Barack Obama's 2008 victory. Among the Republicans in 2015, Sens. Rand Paul and Ted Cruz -- both still long shots for the victory against a Jeb Bush or a Marco Rubio -- have the possibility of reaching libertarian and social conservative Republicans who have become disaffected with the GOP over the past decade. Even if they don't win, they can bring into the party new groups of voters who can help the GOP in this and other elections, as well as their own future candidacies. Selling themselves: There are some candidates who get into the primaries these days as a vehicle for their own careers. Donald Trump, the real estate mogul and former reality television star, appears to see the selection contest as a way to advance his own fame and reputation. Running for president has been just another way to keep his name alive in the national media. Others, like Ben Carson, jump into the contest without a clear agenda or connection to broader groups. Their goal seems to be a desire to elevate their own role in the public arena. With such a vibrant world of political media, consulting and think tanks, running for president can enhance a person's stature and offer opportunities. Mike Huckabee earned himself a spot on Fox News after previous runs. With Trump, one lure may be that he has name recognition and can likely get into the first GOP debate (on Fox, limited to 10 candidates) and the first tier of the first CNN debate (the network will have a second debate for those who don't make the first cut). That is priceless national exposure. Another big outcome of a presidential run could be a vice presidential or Cabinet slot, and this must be on the minds of some of the longer shots. The visibility and stature that can come from running could enhance the appeal of a future appointment of someone like Pataki or Chris Christie. Testing the waters: For many other candidates, it is clear that winning in American politics can take several tries. Entering the primaries and caucuses is a learning experience. When Mitt Romney ran in 2008, he believed that he had a good chance for the nomination. But even when he lost, the experience helped him be a stronger candidate in 2012, when he won the nomination. Running is also an effort to solidify the credentials needed to approach campaign contributors and super PACs in future years with the hope of being a credible candidate. There are lower-key candidates, like John Kasich, Scott Walker, and Martin O'Malley, who have high aspirations in the near future but also realize that getting through the competition in 2016 can make them stronger for the next time around. The primaries and caucuses continue to serve as a powerful national forum through which to achieve a large number of goals. Particularly in an age when there is so much politically centered media, constantly covering the endless campaign and giving attention to any candidate who enters, and when super PACs can single-handedly finance campaigns, the temptations to declare for the presidency are stronger than ever.
Astronomers changed Pluto status from planet to dwarf planet, but it’s possible that it’s not any kind of planet at all. In a study published in the journal “Icarus,” scientists have found fascinating similarities between Pluto and the 67P comet studied by the European Space Agency’s (ESA) Rosetta spacecraft in 2004.
Nine women who allege they've been sexually assaulted by Uber drivers are pushing back against the ridesharing company for trying to force their proposed class action lawsuit into arbitration. Two weeks ago, Uber said it would allow survivors of sexual assault and harassment by its drivers to seek justice however they choose, whether that's arbitration, mediation or open court. The updated policy came in the wake of a CNN investigation into sexual assaults and abuse by ridesharing drivers. But the company said, per its terms of service, it will not allow victims of sexual assault and harassment to join together in a class action lawsuit. Uber's lawyers tried to compel the women to carry out two of the lawsuit claims through arbitration. The claims are related to unfair business practices and consumer legal remedies. Uber said assault related claims need to be handled individually. Related: Uber says no to class action lawsuits in rider assault cases -- but it's up to court to decide The victims' lawyers formally pushed back in a Northern California district court on Tuesday evening. They filed a brief arguing the case benefits the public -- not the victims -- and therefore violates California law. Moreover, the lawyers argue Uber is hiding the magnitude of the issue by forcing survivors to litigate assault and harassment related claims on an individual basis -- something that's cost prohibitive for many. Attorney Jeanne Christensen of Wigdor LLP, who is representing the victims, said that at the same time the company issued its announcement, "its lawyers were busy filing a motion to compel to arbitration all of the other claims in the lawsuit." "If successful, Uber achieves the result it wanted all along -- to silence female victims' voices on a collective basis," Christensen said in a statement sent to CNN. "Such a result also allows Uber to keep secret the data about the countless other incidents of sexual assault by Uber drivers." In a conversation earlier this month, Uber's chief legal officer Tony West told CNN the company has committed to release a safety transparency report. "We want people to acknowledge the enormity of the issue, and we want us to begin to think of constructive ways to prevent and end sexual assault." "What's most important is for individual survivors to be able to tell their individual stories," he added. The new court filing also notes that at least two of the women represented in the lawsuit did not order the Uber rides -- someone else did. Therefore, they aren't bound by the arbitration clause, it states. Uber is one of several ridesharing companies called on by lawmakers to turn over data related to sexual violence on its platform following CNN's investigation Nine members of Congress sent a letter to the CEOs of Uber, Lyft, Juno, Curb, and Via last week requesting details about their protocols related to sexual assault and harassment reports, training drivers, and more. The letter asks if the companies maintain records on drivers who've been accused of sexual violence and do they make that information public. It also wants to know if the companies have protocols in place to alert other ridesharing companies if drivers on their platform are reported for harassment or discrimination. Drivers often work for multiple companies.
Please enable Javascript to watch this video STANWOOD, Wash. -- A 6-year-old boy in the Puget Sound has helped save more than 1,000 dogs from high-kill shelters. Roman and his mom, Jennifer McConn, started Project Freedom Ride less than two years ago. They transport at-risk dogs in Texas to the Northwest to get adopted. Roman uses social media to springboard his quest to save lives, posting videos of him with adoptable dogs on Facebook. "We're trying to get her adopted," Roman said in one video while sitting cross-legged on the grass petting a dog named Ru. "She's deaf and she's been through two homes. We really want her in a home where she won't bounce back and forth again." I asked Roman how many dogs he's saved. "Countless," he replied. His mom, Jennifer, said it's more than 1,000 and counting, and it all started when Roman was four years old and saw a dog adoption event while living in Texas. "He kept asking why they were there and I would tell him, 'They're looking for homes.' In that 4-year-old mind, he's like, 'We just need to find them homes,'" Jennifer said. His solution is simple: "We make videos for dogs and we get them adopted." When Roman and his mom moved from Texas to Washington state, they took it a step further, pulling dogs from high-kill shelters in Texas and transporting them to the Northwest, into the arms of eager adopters. We meet Roman and his mom, along with dozens of adopters, at The NOAH Center in Stanwood, Washington, where the latest transport of 65 dogs is about to arrive. The greeting crowd is full of adopters who fell in love over pictures of these dogs on Facebook, but are meeting them in real life for the first time. Karen Ray is giddy as she shows me pictures on her phone of her soon-to-be best friend, Conan. "I am over the moon," she said. "I'm so excited!" One by one, dogs come off the truck until it's finally Conan's turn. "Conan!" Roman yelled out, and Karen eagerly stepped forward. "Here's a KONG for him," Roman said as he handed her the donated gift. As Conan is carried off the truck, Karen takes him in her arms, tears streaming down her face. "My heart is just bursting," she told me. "I'm overwhelmed. I have so much love for this little boy. I'm gonna give him a good life." It's a good life made possible by the big heart of another little boy, Roman. "It feels really, really good," he said. But his work is far from done. "Bindi!" he yells, and the next adopter steps forward. While many of these dogs go straight to adopters, dozens of them have yet to find families. They have been handed off to rescue groups in the Puget Sound. If these dogs are not immediately adopted, Roman will visit them and make Facebook videos to bring attention to them until the dogs find their forever homes. Project Freedom Ride's next transportation of dogs is June 12. You can visit the Facebook page for more information.
(CNN) Michael Jackson's musical achievements are legend: the first artist to win eight Grammys in one night; the first artist to sell more than a million digital tracks in one week. His impact on dance has been just as powerful. Fans around the world have tried to imitate his smooth slides and spins, his racy crotch grab and pelvic thrust and, of course, his trademark moonwalk, with varying degrees of success. But there's one move that stunned the watching world: the gravity-defying tilt he debuted in his 1988 music video for " Smooth Criminal ." In one scene, Jackson and a few of his dancers lean forward 45 degrees, backs straight, feet flat upon the floor, and hold the pose until they return upright with little apparent effort. "It's not really possible physically to do it," said neurosurgeon Dr. Nishant Yagnick, a longtime Jackson fan who practices at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh, India. "He was cheating gravity." "You can bend a maximum of 25 or 30 degrees forward before you fall on your face," added his colleague Dr. Manjul Tripathi, another fan. "I tried to do it, and I fell." Fascinated by Jackson and his seemingly inhuman abilities, Yagnick and Tripathi began to investigate just how the pop legend was able to accomplish his feat. Along with another colleague, Dr. Sandeep Mohindra, they published their observations from a neurosurgeon's point of view on Tuesday in the Journal of Neurosurgery: "How did Michael Jackson challenge our understanding of spine biomechanics?" On the left, how the body is supposed to bend; on the right, how Michael Jackson did it When the human body bends forward with the back straight, the doctors explain, the erector spinae muscles that run parallel to our vertebrae "act like cables" and support the body as the center of gravity shifts. But when the focus of bending is switched to the ankles, those erector muscles aren't the major support. Instead, the strain is put on the calf and Achilles tendon, which aren't really built for that role. "This allows for a very limited degree of forward bending from the ankle joints, while keeping a stiff straight posture -- unless you are Michael Jackson," they explain in the study. "Most trained dancers with strong core strength will reach a maximum of 25 or 30 degrees of forward bending while performing this action." Though Jackson was in marvelous shape, even he couldn't do the maneuver without help. So he and his team invented a special shoe that would anchor him to the floor during the tilt. Michael Jackson's patented shoe. Patented on October 26, 1993 , the shoes "have a specially designed heel slot which can be detachably engaged" with a "hitch" (such as a nail) projected through the stage surface "by simply sliding the shoe wearer's foot forward, thereby engaging with the hitch member," according to the US Patent Office description. "Very inventive idea of him," Tripathi said with a laugh, "because even with that shoe, I am not able to do 45 degrees. You need a very good core of strength, and that strength was in Michael Jackson and his Achilles tendon." Yagnick agreed: "Normal people, even with the shoe, probably can't do it. It takes a lot of practice to develop the core muscles, abs and central trunk muscles to get the strength to do it." Not only would most people need intensive training to accomplish the move, said Atlanta physiatrist Dr. Jose Garcia-Corrada, but they could seriously injure themselves if they fell. Garcia specializes in the medical rehabilitation of the spine at Emory School of Medicine. "If you were to lose your core balance during the lean and didn't catch the fall with your arms, you could hit your jaw," Garcia-Corrada said. "That might hyperextend the neck and cause serious spine damage." It's not just the spine that might be affected, he added. "You're holding most of your weight with muscles that you normally wouldn't use in this way," he said. "You could really strain your back and legs muscles and tendons." Many audiences who watched Jackson and his dancers perform the feat on video and in concerts had no knowledge of the trick. To them, Yagnick said, it seemed like magic. "When Michael Jackson brought out the video and then did it live on stages around the world, people didn't know he had this shoe system," he said. "Particularly in India, where Michael Jackson is very popular, many people tried to copy him, and some even hurt themselves." "MJ style," as it is called in India, is so popular that one of the top dance groups is called "MJ5" because they imitate Jackson, while children emulate the moves in competitions like "Dance, India, Dance." Tripathi believes that Jackson's legacy has "pushed whole generations of dancers to go beyond their limits," which he says is putting new kinds of stresses on the spine. "So in India, neurosurgeons are perplexed due to all these new kinds of neuroskeletal injuries we are now seeing." Studies on the newer forms of dance inspired by Jackson back up the doctors' observations. 2012 study published in the Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports followed three types of hip-hop dancers: popper/lockers, breakers and "new schoolers." Popping and locking are foreshadowed in many of Michael Jackson's routines. Locking requires freezing from a fast movement and "locking" into that position for a short time before suddenly moving again. Popping involves quickly contracting and relaxing muscles to produce a jerking motion or "pop" in the body. Breakers or "B-boys" practice a highly acrobatic type of dance that involves tumbling, spinning headstands and lifts in which the entire body is supported by one arm. "New schoolers" borrow inspiration from many styles of dance and fit them to the music. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. There were 738 injuries among the 232 dancers in the study; breakers had the highest number of injuries. The study's conclusion: Hip-hop dancers "should be educated concerning injury prevention, biomechanics, and use of protective equipment." 2009 study in the American Journal of Sports Medicine found 1,665 injuries among 40 breakdance professionals and 104 amateurs, mostly in the wrist, spine, shoulder and ankle. Breakdancing, said the authors, "must be considered as a potentially high-risk dancing sport," especially since dancers didn't often take enough time to heal before jumping back into training. That is a significant problem in India as well, Yagnick said, particularly among young people who see dancing as a pathway to a profession. "We are seeing a lot of complex dance moves that they just copy but don't really learn from a professional," Yagnick said. "They are young, 18 or younger, and they want to get ahead, and they are pushing themselves. They don't know what they are dealing with. There should be education on the right and wrong way to do things."
Story highlights Death toll is rising from mudslides and floods in Sierra Leone; hundreds are missing Children have been orphaned, and need food and clothing (CNN) Mudslides and floods have killed more than 450 people in Sierra Leone including more than 150 children. That number is expected to rise as hundreds are missing. Sierra Leone buried at least 300 victims of devastating floods. Torrents of mud wiped away entire communities. Nearly 20,000 people have been displaced. "Many of our compatriots have lost their lives, many more have been gravely injured, and billions of leones' worth of property [has been] destroyed in the flooding and landslides that swept across some parts of our city," President Ernest Koroma said Volunteers search for bodies from the scene of heavy flooding and mudslides in Regent, just outside of Sierra Leone's capital Freetown. Safe drinking water and shelter are now the immediate priorities for thousands of people, according to the United Nations . One of the main concerns is an outbreak of cholera and malaria. "Some residents have gotten skin infections from the water they have been washing in, and officials are putting in place plans for cholera preparedness and prevention," Deputy Health Minister Madina Rahman said. "We are equipped to a point. We can't do it alone." Read More
Give me a T-H-A-N-O-S! What does that spell? Meh, never mind. It doesn’t really matter now anyway. Crazy theories about “Avengers: Infinity War” keep cropping up, since so little is actually known about the movie. Some people think all the dead characters are coming back, while others speculate that all the past villains could make an appearance. But in the lead-up to the new movie, one theory has risen above the rest: The name of the main villain, Thanos, has been secretly revealing the locations of the infinity stones. There are six infinity stones. There are six letters in Thanos’ name. Thanos is after the infinity stones. It just makes sense. It even seems to line up, as Nerdist laid out: T is for Tesseract, the Space Stone A is for Aether, the Reality Stone N is for Necklace, the Time Stone O is for Orb, the Power Stone S is for Loki’s Scepter, the Mind Stone Fans have been using this theory to try to figure out the location of the final missing infinity stone, the soul stone. The popular guesses are that the H may stand for Idris Elba’s character, Heimdall, or that N stands for Nebula rather than Necklace. Nebula is one of Thanos’ daughters, a character who plays a big role in the “Infinity Gauntlet” comic that served as an inspiration for the movie. HuffPost’s Leigh Blickley asked Karen Gillan, who plays Nebula, for her thoughts over the weekend, and she was intriguingly vague. “I can’t say whether that’s going to happen,” Gillan said of the theory. “Nebula has a significant role and has a lot of stuff to do because her father is Thanos, who is the villain of the movies. She has some serious daddy issues with him, so she has a lot to confront.” That made it sound to us like the theory might be right. But then I talked to “Avengers: Infinity War” writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely on Sunday. While reflecting on the wildest theories he has heard, McFeely settled on one that was “obviously crazy.” You guessed it: spelling out T-H-A-N-O-S to reveal the locations of the stones. And just like that, the theory was O-V-E-R.
TORONTO — Childcare is one of the major issues in Ontario's election, with all three main parties proposing vastly different visions of how best to help families at a time when daycare can cost parents as much as $20,000 a year. Here is a look at each of the plans. LIBERALS Who does it cover? The cost of childcare would be fully covered for all children from age 2 1/2 to four, when they can start kindergarten. What types of care are included? Licensed childcare centres, both not-for-profit and for-profit. What does it cost? Parents of preschool-aged children aged 2 1/2 to four would pay no daycare fees. The plan would cost taxpayers $2.2 billion over three years. When would it be implemented? Starting in 2020. Also on HuffPost: What else does the plan offer? The Liberals would put $162.5 million toward helping with costs of infant and toddler care and $534 million over six years to build 14,000 more preschool childcare spaces. What do the experts say? The plan was based on recommendations from University of Toronto economics professor Gordon Cleveland. Critics have noted that it doesn't cover the most expensive years — infant care runs up to $25,000 a year, while the Liberals estimate their plan would save families an average $17,000 a year. But Cleveland calls it a first step. "There's no special magic about preschoolers except that we do have a lot more capacity at that age level right now," says Cleveland, who also appeared at a Liberal campaign event touting the plan. Rachel Langford, an associate professor of early childhood studies at Ryerson University, called the plan "sound" because there are a sufficient number of existing preschool childcare spots to accommodate increased demand that would come from free care. "Unlike with infants and toddlers, where staff-child ratios demand more spots, I think that it would be easier to implement the plan (for preschool years)." ——— NDP Who does it cover? Infants and toddlers at first, followed by preschoolers. What types of care are included? Licensed, not-for-profit childcare. Three-quarters of Ontario's licensed childcare centres are not-for-profit. What does it cost? Families making under $40,000 would pay no fees. Families above that threshold would pay on a sliding scale based on their income. The NDP has said the average would be $12 a day, but has not provided any specifics about who would pay which amounts, except to say 70 per cent of families would pay $12 a day or less. After an initial $375 million investment from the government in 2018-19, the cost for taxpayers would ramp up to $3.8 billion in 2022-23, with a total projected cost of $11.4 billion over five years. When would it be implemented? The plan would start with care for infants and toddlers in 2019-20, followed by preschoolers the following year. Ontario NDP leader Andrea Horwath pets a puppy during a campaign stop in Brantford, Ont., on May 29, 2018. What else does the plan offer? Existing subsidies would not be reduced. The number of licensed, not-for-profit childcare spaces would be expanded by 51 per cent — an additional 202,000 spaces — by adding more than 10 per cent each year. It would prioritize new spots in public schools. The plan also includes wage increases for early childhood educators. What do the experts say? The plan is based on recommendations from the Ontario Coalition for Better Childcare. They have called for a universal childcare system that is affordable, pays early childhood educators well, and expands only in the public or not-for-profit sectors. The coalition says for-profit care tends to be of a poorer quality, and they say limiting for-profit childcare is key to responsibly expanding care in Ontario. Langford believes the NDP is completely committed to their plan, but it would be "more challenging" to implement than the Liberal plan because infant and toddler spaces require higher child-to-staff ratios. Cleveland says the NDP plan would create more demand for the infant and toddler spaces than it could meet. "It's a promise that sounds good, but it's a promise that can't be delivered," he says. "The NDP one that they're talking about would be quite generous...that's dramatically lowering the price of childcare. That would make it incredibly affordable for families. I don't really have an objection to doing that. My objection is that what they've put forward is not a possible, feasible plan." But aiming for a high-quality system with an emphasis on not-for-profit care is a very important factor, Cleveland adds. "I don't fault them for raising that issue." ——— PROGRESSIVE CONSERVATIVES Who does it cover? Children under 15 years old What types of care are included? Families could select from a variety of options, including licensed and independent childcare spaces, babysitters, nannies, after-school recreational programs, "and a range of other options, as long as it enables the parent to go back to work," the Tories have said. What does it cost? Families would receive an Ontario Childcare Rebate of up to 75 per cent of their childcare expenses, up to $6,750 per child until age six. For kids between six and 15, families would receive up to $3,750. It would work on a sliding scale, with families earning less than $34,800 qualifying for the maximum and declining to a rebate of 26 per cent of childcare costs for families with an income of $155,095 or higher. It would cost $389 million a year, the Tories say. When would it be implemented? Jan. 1, 2019. What else does the plan offer? The plan as announced by the Progressive Conservatives does not promise to create additional spaces. What do the experts say? Critics seize on the amounts offered, saying even $6,750 would still leave some families paying nearly $15,000 a year for infant childcare. Langford says the Tory plan doesn't advance accessibility, but flagged the cost estimate as too low. "The PCs are promising $389 million for the tax rebate," she says. "There are 2.2 million eligible children from zero to 14...that would work out to about $175 per child." But the Tories say this is an oversimplification. Not all children would need some form of care, plus parents with an infant in care would spend far more than a parent paying for a pre-teen's after-school sports program, they say. The $389 million is in addition to money that would be available by repurposing billions of dollars in existing tax credits, they add. Economist Kevin Milligan co-authored a paper last year on the benefits of a refundable tax credit for childcare. He wrote a blog post in support of the Tory plan when it was originally announced last year under former party leader Patrick Brown, saying it delivers the largest benefit to lower- and middle-income families and that the cost estimates were reasonable. However, after the party elected Doug Ford as leader he said the commentary no longer reflected his views.
