http://www.townhall.com/watchdog/northwest/2015/07/07/idahos-bridges-crumbling-n7991
['Dustin Hurst', 'Lauretta Brown', 'Beth Baumann']
2015-07-07 00:00:00
-
 
By Dustin Hurst | for Watchdog.org

Newsrooms struggle under tight budgets these days and sometimes have to find different ways to provide content to readers and followers.

We get it. Times are tough and the news business reshapes itself daily.

A latest example comes from our friends at Better Idaho, a progressive group fueled by union cash, along with bucks from radical environmentalists and billionaires like George Soros and Tom Steyer. Derek Farr, Better Idaho’s leading man, released a graphic Monday supporting Idaho’s $95 million tax and fee hike to pay for roads, intimating the idea’s opponents literally want bridges to fall down.

Farr’s graphic fell, though. Flat on its face.

Farr, an extreme environmentalist himself, deceptively edited a photo of a bridge in Connecticut to make his point. He cut out all identifying information and failed to explain the photo, which featured a road sign warning drivers of a bridge out of service.

The bridge wasn’t actually out, though. A public official in Westport, Conn., told a news agency in 2013, when the picture hit the web, the Bayberry Lane bridge was completely safe for passage. The local government, though, wanted to repair some damage done by Hurricane Sandy, the storm that ravaged New York, New Jersey and other portions of the eastern seaboard in late 2012.

For the record, to travel from Boise, Idaho, to the bridge Farr used in the photo would take 37 hours by car with no bathroom breaks.

To be sure, Idaho’s bridges and roads need continued maintenance; no one argues that point. Despite what the pro-tax hike crowd says, the state didn’t need to take more money from Idaho families — particularly those in rural areas — to fund the maintenance. The state budget grew several hundred million dollars in the past five years and lawmakers couldn’t find a single dime for road repairs. Why?

Anyway, in the spirit of friendship and tolerance and all those other feel-good buzzwords, I thought I might share a few graphics to help Better Idaho make its point that legislators needed to take more cash from Idaho families. After all, newsroom budgets are tight and a lame graphic from Connecticut might have been all Better Idaho could afford.

Enjoy!

Definitive proof Idaho’s bridges are crumbling:

Don’t forget Idaho’s roads: