http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/davidlbahnsen/2018/05/17/cohen-mueller-stormy-not-moving-markets-what-is-n2481764
['David L.', 'Lauretta Brown', 'Beth Baumann', 'Timothy Meads']
2018-05-17 00:00:00
Cohen, Mueller, Stormy Not Moving Markets... What Is?
 
As of press time the Dow is up over 1,200 points from where it was just two weeks ago, a monstrous rally that isn't getting a lot of play, probably because it had been a 1,200 point drop in the two weeks prior to that. So yes, the stock market has been directionless over a month, but quite volatile in between, and this may continue for some time as markets wrestle with bond yields and questions about economic growth.

In the meantime, capex, alternatives, emerging markets, oil, Japan, the Fed, and all our other favorite topics need a little attention, and attention we shall give them, in this week's visit to the Dividend Café ...

Weekly redux

The "will they, won't they" issue with North Korea did not move markets. The Israel/Gaza/Jerusalem embassy events did not move markets. Michael Cohen, Stormy Daniels, James Comey, and Robert Mueller did not move markets. We are wrapping up a 20%+ year-over-year earnings growth quarter, digesting a 10-year bond yield sitting just over 3% (what we would call "normalization"), and waiting to see what the real business investment ramifications of all this will be in the quarter(s) ahead (lots of focus on that subject this week). So call it a weekly redux, and call it a yearly redux, but for investors, capex will trump Stormy Daniels for some time to come.

The Japanese thesis

Q1 GDP in Japan shrunk by 0.6%, the first economic contraction in Japan in eight quarters. The source of the weakness was, as expected, household consumption. Readers and clients should note that this economic contraction coincides with the Nikkei hitting its highest point in over 20 years. In other words, the constant truth that GDP growth and stock market performance do not correlate is being reiterated in spades. Stock prices reflect profits, and Japan is experiencing a renaissance in corporate profits and profit margins. I expect a significant divergence between profits and GDP growth. As valuation levels are actually at their lowest since 2009, there exists a potential for substantive movement up in stock prices even as their economy continues to work through its demographic-driven malaise.

Eye-Candy for Contrarians

This chart grabbed me this week. It reflects the S&P 500 in grey, and the green line reflects an index of optimism of retail brokerage customers at a large online outfit. What you see is stock market optimism in line with the stock market during the January run.

Click here to view the chart.

Alternatively, quite the contrary

The golden era of hedge funds in a lot of ways was 2000-2002, when the S&P was down over 40%, and the Nasdaq down 80%, but many hedge funds were even, or often up in that period. So that led to what? Well, massive flows into hedge funds, of course (from 2003 to 2007). During that period, the stock market increased 100%, and many hedge funds lagged. The next period - the financial crisis, and the immediate aftermath of the crisis - is a little harder to pin down. A few hedge funds did even worse than the market (leveraged bundles of psychopathic recklessness), and many blew the market away (famed shorts of subprime, primarily). Broadly, though, most hedge funds were down in this period, but not as much as the market. Then, you have the real high octane bull market of 2012-2017. In this period hedge funds generated positive returns but much less than that of the market itself, and underwent a very interesting scrutiny from the media around performance and from investors around fees. Fund flows were decidedly negative.

And now here we are. We are contrarians across all asset classes because ours is a conviction about behavioral realities. Will the next five years bode worse for hedge funds, or better? Has the cycle of hedge funds most useful years being followed by great inflows been set up for the inverse - great outflows followed by very useful years? That is what we believe is consistent with the testimony of both history, and human nature.

Emerging indexing an emerging problem

So 30%+ of the emerging markets major index is now China-based, with over 10% in South Korea, and 10% in Taiwan. So, with just three countries, perhaps three of the biggest exporters in the world, you have 55% of the index covered - essentially a major play on exporting from a few countries all a rock throw from each other to the developed world. In short, it is becoming less and less of a solid play on actual emerging markets, to buy the emerging markets index.

Click here to view the chart.

What's the Fed going to do?

The Fed has raised rates twice this year already. No one I am aware of doubts they will raise one more time (meaning, at least one more time). The question is whether or not a fourth increase will take place (likely in December). The fed funds futures market is now pricing in a 54% chance of a fourth rate hike, the first time all year it will have gone over 50%. I believe that accurately captures the lay of the land - at this point, and there is a long way to go, it is a coin flip.

Sell in May or are Stupid Cliches Here to Stay?

The whole adage "sell in May and go away" deserves to be checked against empirical evidence. For indeed, one would think something that has become so common to say would have more than just a rhyme behind it, right? The fact of the matter is that the six months of May through October have averaged a +3.3% return for the last 20 years (1), lower than the average November through April return, but vital and positive nonetheless. A rule of thumb at the Bahnsen Group - poetry makes for bad investment policy.

Two lessons in west Texas

The amount producers are being paid for oil in the Permian Basin right now is dramatically less than the global cost of oil, and is having a profound impact on the energy sector. Essentially, producers are receiving a huge discount in the Permian Basin because the cost of transporting oil to their customers has gone through the roof, as pipelines are simply full. Put differently, trucks cost too much money to transport oil on, yet that is the only option lacking more pipeline capacity. Producers have to eat that differential. SO what are the two lessons?

Click here to view the chart.

First, we could easily see this leading to a decrease in production, driving oil prices even higher. That discount comes off of profits which limits their ability to ramp up production to meet demand. And second, this is a painful, painful reminder of how depleted our energy infrastructure is in this country, and how vital it is that more pipelines be built to handle the volumes of our thriving oil and gas industry.

A new era in ripping off investors

This week marked the beginning of the end for certain non-fiduciary brokers and the way they buy bonds on behalf of their clients. About 50 years too late if you ask us, the MSRB has finally demanded that investors be shown on their written confirms what the "mark-up" was (a hidden commission, essentially) that their broker received. While it may seem surreal, an investor previously paying $108 for a $106 bond was perfectly legal, and systemically common. It is still legal, but now that $2 the broker is keeping for himself must be disclosed (at least on the written confirmation). These transactional mark-ups are estimated to cost 1-2% per bond transaction for investors, multiples of what actual managed accounts and professional funds cost.

We do believe in active management for municipal bonds, largely because I do not believe the value-added in credit analysis, yield curve management, and access to supply is up for debate. But add transparency and cost to the mix as well. And investors would be wise to understand this lesson with their bond portfolios, and every other aspect of their financial services: Cost cannot be merely defined by just the costs you see, but also by the ones you don't.

Why does "capex" matter?

We talk so much about "capex" (capital expenditures), that it probably behooves us to re-visit the subject periodically to confirm why it matters. This week's Market Epicurean featured my best thoughts on the topic ...

Chart of the Week

Our thesis for the next leg of this bull market centers around capital expenditures driving a new round of productivity, innovation, and growth. Tax reform was and is a major argument for this business investment taking place. And now we see this:

Click here to view the chart.

Quote of the Week

“The investors chief problem, and even his worst enemy, is likely to be himself.”

-- Benjamin Graham

* * *

I hope you enjoy these "chart heavy" trips into the Dividend Café. I enjoy weeks that are reasonably drama-free in the markets because I prefer to use this weekly commentary to discuss lasting stuff that matters - not flavor of the day noise. Tell us what matters to you, and we will address it. To that end, we work.

David L. Bahnsen writes at the Dividend Café.