https://townhall.com/notebook/bethbaumann/2018/05/22/disgusting-bronx-man-poses-with-a-gun-in-front-of-an-nypd-patrol-car-n2483297
['Beth Baumann', 'Lauretta Brown']
2018-05-22 00:00:00
Disgusting: Bronx Man Poses With A Gun In Front Of An NYPD Patrol Car
 
A 21-year old Bronx man just learned a valuable lesson: never take a picture with a gun in front of a police car with an officer sitting inside. It will end badly.

About The Picture

Kelvin Rodriguez took the picture in front of a 45th Precinct patrol car and posted it on Facebook under the name "Relz DA Blixky" on Friday with the caption, "Ya see da blixky ... stupid dum n*ggas ... f*ck da 45th."

"Blixky" is a street term for gun.

Bronx man poses for a picture with a gun in front of an NYPD police car and then wonders why he gets stopped. Did he NOT hear about the officers who were murdered while sitting in their car? pic.twitter.com/hIOaLiMNDd — Beth Baumann (@eb454) May 22, 2018

When officers received wind of the picture, a warning went out to all NYPD officers: "Allegedly taken today. Stay on your f---ing toes. Always be cognizant of your surroundings. Our safety glass and ballistic panels are an illusion. SHARE IT," the New York Daily News reported.

Officers were put on high alert, especially after the assassination of Officer Miosotis Familia in the Bronx in 2017 and Officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu in Brooklyn in 2014.

Now, Rodriguez said that picture has had severe consequences for his future.

"I was about to become a teacher's assistant, but this has messed me up," Rodriguez told the New York Daily News. "I have all my certificates. They're making me out to be a terrorist ... I'm not a monster."

Rodriguez showed the Daily News copies of his certificates, saying he is trained to cope with children dealing with shaken baby syndrome and how to keep an eye out for child abuse.

Cops found the man in the picture on Sunday and stopped him near his home for riding his bicycle down the wrong side of the street. Officers found him with a small amount of marijuana and prescription Xanax and Valium.

"I was just riding my bike on the street and they tackled me," he said. "There were five cops on top of me."

According to Rodriguez he suffers from anxiety and depression and was diagnosed with schizophrenia.

Rodriguez was charged with criminal possession of a weapon and making terroristic threats. Right now it is unclear if the terrorism charges will be dropped. Police have no way of proving if the gun in the photo was real.

About The Suspect's Background

While Kelvin Rodriguez asserts that cops ruined his chances at getting a job with kids, there are a few things that make him a criminal.

Rodriguez was charged with criminal possession of a weapon, meaning he is a prohibited possessor. Something in his background makes him unfit to own a firearm. He either is someone with a criminal record or he was deemed mentally unstable by a court of law.

New Yorkers who wish to possess a firearm also need to have a license, something that Rodriguez clearly didn't have if he wasn't supposed to have a firearm in the first place.

On top of all of that, New Yorkers are required to have a concealed carry permit to carry their firearms on their persons, something that, once again, Rodriguez would be unable to obtain, by law.

Although Rodriguez said he did nothing wrong, he clearly broke every basic gun law the State of New York has in place.