http://www.townhall.com/notebook/bethbaumann/2018/05/21/the-war-on-women-is-in-progressives-mind-not-a-reality-n2481129
['Beth Baumann', 'Lauretta Brown']
2018-05-21 00:00:00
Lefties: Stop Pushing This Bogus 'War on Women' Narrative
 
One of the Left's greatest accomplishments is utilizing identity politics to pull at people's heart strings and emotions. They tell minorities, like women, that there is a war on them, that someone is oppressing them. The Left believes that every single one of us should feel like a victim, even if we don't feel like we've been wronged.

Allie Beth Stuckey made a video detailing precisely how the Left tries to tell women that there's a "war on women."

No, there is no war on women in America. pic.twitter.com/FHuFHMI6i4 — Allie Beth Stuckey (@conservmillen) May 15, 2018

This got me thinking.

I'm a woman. Have I ever felt like the world was out to get me? No, not really. Have I ever felt like I was less equal than a man? No, not really. Have I ever felt like I was not valued because I'm a woman? No, not really.

Lefties want you and I to believe that because men and women are different that we're not equal, which is the furthest thing from the truth. There are somethings that I'm better at than my husband and vise versa. Women tend to be better nurturers and men tend to be more handy. Obviously there are exceptions to that but for the most part, it's true.

The thing I never understood about the Left pushing the idea of a "war on women" is this: Lefties want each and everyone to be looked at as individuals. They want everyone to live in harmony and to have their individual preferences and freedoms respected.

That's all great and dandy, until you insert conservative women into the picture.

Suddenly it's not okay for a woman to want to stay home and raise her kids. Suddenly it's not okay for a woman to want to have God and religion be a focal point in her child's life. Suddenly it's not okay for a woman to have any bit of individual freedom and liberty if they have conservative views and morals.

Then there are the typical feminist talking points, the main one being that women only make 70 cents on the dollar in comparison to men.

I'm sick and tired of being told that I will never make the same amount of money as my male counterparts. But you know what you all forget to take into account? They don't take into account women leaving the workforce to raise a family. Of course women who leave the workforce and come back aren't going to make the same amount of money as a man. Why should a woman with eight years of experience receive the same amount of pay as a man with 12 years of uninterrupted experience?

The assertions that Lefty feminists make is flat. Out. Stupid.

Let me make this very clear for you feminists who think you're speaking for every woman.

You aren't.

You do not speak for me. You do not speak for other conservative women. And you sure as hell do not speak for an entire gender.