https://townhall.com/tipsheet/mattvespa/2018/05/24/eyeroll-nancy-pelosi-says-trumps-letter-to-n-korea-probably-gave-kim-jong-un-a-n2484082
['Matt Vespa', 'Lauretta Brown', 'Beth Baumann']
2018-05-24 00:00:00
Eyeroll: Nancy Pelosi Says Trump's Letter To N. Korea Probably Gave Kim Jong-un A 'Giggle Fit'
 
The North Korea talks are over. President Donald J. Trump decided to pull out of the scheduled June 12 talks. It wasn’t Trump’s fault; it was the fact that Kim Jong-un had threatened to start a nuclear war again. There will be debate over that, and whether North Korea was really serious about these negotiations in the first place.

So, there was a setback. It is a step backward for world peace and security in East Asia. This isn’t good news, but for the Left, they’re having a good time mocking the Trump White House because…well, it’s the Left. Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) said that the letter the president sent to North Korea that announced our withdrawal from the talks read more like a “valentine,” and that it was very “palsy walsy.” She also added that the North Korean dictator probably had a “giggle fit” over it.

Pelosi says Kim Jong Un must be having a "giggle fit" after Trump canceled the summit and called Trump's letter "palsy walsy" and said "It's kind of like a valentine" — Natalie Andrews (@nataliewsj) May 24, 2018

Nancy Pelosi on Kim Jong Un: "He must be having a giggle fit there in Pyongyang." — Molly Ball (@mollyesque) May 24, 2018

Katie wrote about this earlier this morning. Here are some excerpts from the letter:

"We greatly appreciate your time, patience, and effort with respect to our recent negotiations and discussions relative to a summit long sought by both parties, which was scheduled to take place on June 12 in Singapore. We were informed that the meeting was requested by North Korea, but that to us is totally irrelevant. I was very much looking forward to being there with you. Sadly, based on the tremendous anger open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting," President Trump wrote (bolding is mine). "Therefore, please let this letter serve to represent that the Singapore summit, for the good of both parties, but to the detriment of the world, will not take place. You talk about your nuclear capabilities, but ours are so massive and powerful that I pray to God they will never have to be used."

So, it seems liberals don’t want diplomacy to succeed. For Pelosi, she’s rooting against America. So, stay classy, lady.