http://www.townhall.com/columnists/larryprovost/2018/05/23/hillary-slaps-communism-victims-n2483220
['Larry Provost', 'Lauretta Brown', 'Beth Baumann']
2018-05-23 00:00:00
Hillary Slaps Communism Victims
 
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com.

Hillary Clinton’s long fascination with Russia came to a literal head when she, in her continuing quest for relevancy, busted out with a hat of the former Soviet Union complete with hammer and sickle during Yale University’s Class Day exercises. My family came from Eastern Europe and we, unlike Hillary, will not forget the monstrosity of what Communism did and is still doing.

Communism was never about the sharing of property or the wealth but about taking the rights away from the people, and killing those who opposed it, while an evil empire spread throughout one third of the entire world while its’ leaders enriched themselves.

Communism slaughtered untold tens of millions of people, so many that Mao said in regards to possible nuclear war, “There are 2.7 billion people in the world; it doesn’t matter if some are killed. China has a population of 600 million; even if half of them are killed, there are still 300 million people left. I’m not afraid of anyone.”

The leaders of communism took away the people’s weapons telling them the state would take care of them.

Communism said they would nurture its people with health care and education from cradle to grave in exchange for freedom. It did neither.

It said that all were equal, but that some were more equal than others.

It said that capitalism was a failure but when in dire straits allowed the Kulaks to have their own productive lands (before slaughtering them as well) and accepted emergency aid from the United States to prevent starvation.

It, in conjunction with Nazi Germany, started World War II through a secret pact and then invaded and divided up Poland, a strong Judeo-Christian nation, and began World War II.

It took advantage of young nations in Africa and told them they could teach them a better life after colonialism. It made life far worse for the Africans.

It said there was no God. In a 1920 speech to the Communist Youth League, Lenin said, “We reject any morality based on extra-human (God) and extra-class concepts. We say that this is deception, dupery, stulficiation of the workers and peasants in the interests of the landowners and capitalists. We say that our morality is entirely subordinated to the interests of the proletariat’s class struggle. Our morality stems from the interests of the class struggle of the proletariat.”

Unlike democracy, which purges itself from sins such as slavery, Communism is non-reformable. Gorbachev tried it and failed. Communism does not allow for initiative. It does not allow for freedom. It does not believe, as our nation’s founding believed, that our rights do not come from government but from God.

The emails of Hillary’s campaign, at least the ones that were found, showed the disdain of her senior officials towards the Catholic Church and the traditional view of God. Clinton campaign chair John Podesta, whose name has resurfaced in the news of late, received an email that said, “There needs to be a Catholic Spring, in which Catholics themselves demand the end of a middle ages dictatorship…” This was not the only email that surfaced from the Clinton campaign showing their true worldview or, as Hillary later blamed Abraham Lincoln for their “…private position versus the public position.”

The ushanka may have been a joke but what if it was a swastika on the hat as opposed to a hammer and sickle? The hammer and sickle is just as offensive. There is nothing redeemable about it. It is deplorable.

While the hat was one of the things in society that is truly offensive, the victims of communism and their descendants will march on; unlike Hillary.

The hat was, like Hillary, a joke. Hillary is stuck in an unsustainable past. Like the Berlin Wall, Hillary fell. In this case she fell multiple times, being rejected by her party and later her people. Her house was built on a false foundation and her secular socialist policies will continue to be fought by the descendants of those who suffered under communist tyranny and its offspring.

We will not let it happen here. We will never embrace communism whether revolutionary or creeping. And, as Reagan said, “…we will never compromise our principles and standards. We will never give away our freedom. We will never abandon our belief in God.”

*Views in this article are those of the author.