http://www.townhall.com/notebook/bethbaumann/2018/05/26/multiple-gun-stores-mock-dicks-sporting-good-with-awesome-new-signage-n2484738
['Beth Baumann', 'Lauretta Brown', 'Timothy Meads']
2018-05-26 00:00:00
Multiple Gun Stores Mock Dick's Sporting Good With Awesome New Signage
 
Now that Dick's Sporting Good has alienated Second Amendment supporters, gun stores across the nation are using the sporting goods' store's mistakes to promote their businesses.

Boyert Shooting Center in Katy, Texas made fun of Dick's with their latest sign:

Awesome gun store sign in Katy, Texas! pic.twitter.com/APbDs3qkh0 — Beth Baumann (@eb454) May 26, 2018

"It was meant to have people react to it and hopefully most understand that we are referring to the company and not an individual. We have had a lot of people come in and tell us they love the sign," Program Director Travis Clark told The Houston Chronicle.

According to Clark, the response has been fairly positive.

Boyert also decided to offer a discount in honor of Springfield's decision to cut ties with the sporting goods company. They held a one-day sale

From their website:

SPRINGFIELD ARMORY "DONE WITH DICK'S" BLOWOUT SALE SAVE THE DATE! MEMBERS: 05/11/18 - 05/13/18 PUBLIC: 05/12/18 - 05/13/18 In honor of Springfield Armory cutting off DICK’S from selling their products due to DICK’S hiring of anti-2nd Amendment Lobbyists, we will be featuring a Springfield Armory “DONE WITH DICK’S” Blowout Sale this weekend at both of our locations. Pricing and locations are listed below. This is a huge opportunity to SAVE HUGE on our entire line of Springfield firearms, but don't wait too long because it is only while supplies last!

We'll also be offering 10% OFF any Springfield holsters and accessories. The sale will open to the public this Saturday and Sunday, however, Members will get first dibs starting this Friday. The sale cannot be combined with any other promotions and we will be accepting call-in orders in case you can't make it to our stores. We have limited quantities of these firearms so, again, don't wait too long! This is going to be an opportunity you definitely won't want to miss!

A pawn shop in Little River, South Carolina also decided to poke fun of Dick's Sporting Goods:

And another awesome gun sign. This one is in Little River, South Carolina. pic.twitter.com/70eaqmeWhM — Beth Baumann (@eb454) May 26, 2018

The sign was put up a few days before the deadly shooting in Santa Fe, Texas. According to pawnbroker Brad Stamper, most people are receptive to the sign.

“It’s about 99 percent support,” Stamper told WMBF-TV. “Our phone’s ringing off the hook.”

Stamper said the shop has received supportive phone calls from callers in Texas, Missouri, Florida and Colorado.

Stamper recently took to Facebook to post a statement about their sign, which was shared on the company's Facebook page: