http://www.townhall.com/columnists/derekhunter/2018/05/20/the-deep-state-is-real-and-much-bigger-than-you-know-n2482458
['Derek Hunter', 'Lauretta Brown', 'Beth Baumann']
2018-05-20 00:00:00
The Deep State Is Real, And Much Bigger Than You Know
 
The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not represent the views of Townhall.com.

I used to be a doubter who would cringe, just a little, at any mention of “the deep state.” I admit it, it all seemed a little far-fetched to me that there was this cabal of careerists conspiring from within the government to harm President Donald Trump when I first heard it. I never doubted there were individuals doing it, but a wide net of conspirators seemed like something out of a bad movie more than anything that could actually happen in the United States. I was wrong, very wrong, the deep state is real. But there is much more than just this small group of powerful people working toward a common goal, there is an entire infrastructure created by the left not only to destroy Trump, but to indoctrinate unsuspecting Americans into their agenda.

As the curtain is pulled back on the Obama administration’s unprecedented efforts to spy on the Trump campaign, there is a good possibility many of the perpetrators could face criminal charges, or at least should. But it’s important to understand that liberals didn’t just create this out of the blue in 2016, it’s the culmination of everything they’ve worked toward for decades.

The infrastructure they used to spy on the Trump campaign was something inherently governmental, simply planting a mole in the campaign couldn’t tap phones or access emails. But the ability to cover up that fact requires a level of media complicity that takes time to create.

Getting the desired message out is only part of the battle, it has to be believed by a significant percentage of the public for it to really matter. Conditioning the public to be receptive to that message, without questioning how it came about or why they should care required subtle indoctrination over a lifetime.

As it stands, liberals have that infrastructure in place, they had that support system ready to go. And, not to get all Scooby-Doo on you, they would’ve gotten away with it were it not for the existence of conservative media.

The Rush Limbaughs, Matt Drudges, Sean Hannitys and Tucker Carlsons, Townhalls, Daily Callers, Free Beacons, and Washington Examiners of the world questioning the official story, even when it seemed crazy to do so, is helping to expose what was done in the case of the Trump campaign. But there’s so much more that needs to be exposed, like how this could happen and why so many people were eager to believe it in the first place.

That the media is in the tank for liberals is as shocking as the sun rising in the east, how they find a receptive audience is the real problem. An educated and skeptical public wouldn’t have so many people who so easily swallow the liberal’s hook, let alone the line and sinker.

But liberals have conditioned people to accept what they’re told through a corrupt public education system that offers political spin as fact and focus the idea liberal thought as “tolerant.”

Through so-called experts, elevated by simply putting them on TV and giving them impressive sounding titles like “analyst” or “strategist,” the public can be led to believe just about anything. After all, to be an “expert” on TV means you have expertise, right? Not even close.

And lurking, always there, is Hollywood, churning out “message movies” and “documentaries” that would make Leni Riefenstahl blush over their blatant propaganda value. Take a look at the documentary offerings on Netflix and you’ll see stories about how climate change is going to kill us all, our food is poisoned, businesses and private property are evil, only surpassed by Republicans corruption and the granddaddy of them all – how Donald Trump is history’s greatest monster.

It reminds me of the old saying, “You can’t buy that kind of publicity.” But you can, or at least you can manufacture it.

The deep state is real, but it does not exist in a vacuum. In my new book, “Outrage, INC: How the Liberal Mob Ruined Science, Journalism, and Hollywood,” I explain how not just government, but nearly every aspect of public life has been corrupted, in ways both obvious and subtle, to serve the liberal agenda.

None of this is by accident, and it didn’t start on November 8, 2016, it just sprang into action. Nearly every aspect of life, to one degree or another, has been or is ready to be weaponized against anyone who dares to stand up to the liberal agenda. And none have stood up to it in a more threatening way than Donald Trump.

But the clock is ticking, the fuse is burning down low. As this aspect of the deep state starts to crumble, it’s important to remember it’s just one small piece of a much larger puzzle. There are other, bigger and equally dangerous parts in need of exposure and destruction. Learn about them all before it’s too late so we can destroy the whole deep state and the machine that feeds it, once and for all.