http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/04/29/judge-jeanine-james-clapper-liar-and-leaker-james-comey
[]
2018-04-29 00:00:00
Judge Jeanine Targets 'Bozo' James Clapper: A 'Liar and Leaker' Just Like Comey
 
Dershowitz: Democrats 'Think President Trump Is the Devil' in Russia Probe

In her Opening Statement, Judge Jeanine Pirro called out James Clapper, the former director of national intelligence, for lying about leaking the dossier on President Trump.

She referred to Clapper as a "bozo" and criticized him for assuring Trump that neither he nor anyone else in the intelligence community was responsible for the leak.

The House Intelligence Committee found in a heavily redacted report that Clapper provided "inconsistent testimony" about his contacts with the media regarding information leaks.

Clapper, according to the report, discussed the dossier with CNN journalist Jake Tapper in January 2017.

Pirro also slammed Clapper for criticizing the president and saying that the intelligence community was under assault by Trump.

.@JudgeJeanine to @Comey: "Jim, you were part of an anti-Trump conspiracy, violating the fundamental rules of your own agency... Power, Jim, don't ever forget it - Power is rented - and you, my friend, have been evicted." pic.twitter.com/3r78VwtpUz — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 29, 2018

She said that Clapper is "another liar and a leaker," referring to former FBI Director James Comey.

Pirro then said that Comey is part of an "anti-Trump conspiracy" and is "violating the fundamental rules" of the agency.

"Don't think that because you were a big shot at the FBI that you can dispel the rules to suit your own and your family's own political agenda," she said.

"Power is rented, and you, my friend, have been evicted," Pirro concluded.

'So, They Would Hide Treason?': Tucker Debates Obama Campaign Staffer on GOP Covering up 'Collusion'

Former Clinton Adviser: 'Irretrievably Tainted' Trump-Russia Probe Should Be Challenged in Court

'Lost Their G--Damn Humanity': PBA President Furious Over Release of Cop Killer