http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/23/judge-andrew-napolitano-michael-cohen-associate-plea-deal-what-it-means-trump
[]
2018-05-23 00:00:00
Judge Nap on Cohen Business Partner's Plea Deal: It's All About Getting 'Dirt' on Trump
 
Judge Andrew Napolitano weighed in on the possible legal fallout after the business partner of President Trump’s personal lawyer agreed to cooperate with state and federal prosecutors.

Former New York City “Taxi King” Evgeny Freidman pleaded guilty Tuesday to a single count of evading $50,000 worth of taxes — despite facing four counts of criminal tax fraud and one of grand larceny.

"Friedman was exposed to 25 years in jail. Whatever he told the prosecutors he could deliver about Michael Cohen reduced that exposure to zero," Napolitano said on "Happening Now."

Malkin Slams 'Obnoxious' Claim by James Clapper: 'Spygate' Was About Bringing Down Trump

Mark Levin: Bombshell Revelations Show 'Mueller Probe Is Unconstitutional'

Napolitano explained that the feds could use Freidman's cooperation to get Cohen -- who is under criminal investigation by federal prosecutors in New York City -- to cooperate with Special Counsel Robert Mueller in his investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.

"Just like they're going to squeeze Mr. Friedman to talk about Cohen, they want to squeeze Michael Cohen to talk about the president," Napolitano said. "That's all their goal is: to get people to give them dirt about the president of the United States."

He said that this Cohen scandal will be a distraction for President Trump, because Cohen has described himself in the past as not just Trump's attorney, but his "fixer."

"Meaning the two of them spoke in confidence about many issues," Napolitano said.

"That's the type of beans he can spill about the President of the United States if he decides to become a cooperating witness."

Pavlich on FBI's Trump 'Informant': 'Obama Spied on Reporters, Why Wouldn't He Spy on a Campaign?'

Trump Shuts Down Question About Rosenstein at Appearance With South Korean President

Gohmert Calls for 2nd Special Counsel: Mueller Looking for 'Something to Take Trump Out'