http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/24/nancy-pelosi-challenged-trump-russia-collusion-evidence-infamous-crumbs-remark-town-hall
[]
2018-05-24 00:00:00
Nancy Pelosi Challenged on Infamous 'Crumbs' Remark, Collusion Evidence at Town Hall
 
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi was confronted at a CNN town hall event Wednesday night on her "crumbs" remark and on the public evidence of Trump-Russia collusion.

Pelosi (D-Calif.) made headlines and drew criticism from members of her own party earlier this year when she claimed benefits from the Republicans' tax cuts were mere "crumbs" compared to the huge sums for corporations.

She continued to defend her remarks after a small business owner told her he gave $1,000 bonuses and 5 percent raises to his workers.

'She Holds a Mystical Power Over Them': Tucker Asks Why Dems Are Afraid to Oppose Pelosi

'So Inhumane': Pelosi Scolds Trump, Claims He Called Undocumented Immigrants 'Animals'

"This certainly was not crumbs," he said.

Pelosi commended the man, but said he was a "rarity" and that most businesses had not taken similar steps. Jillian Mele noted on "Fox & Friends" that at least 542 companies have announced bonuses, raises or additional benefits since President Trump signed the tax law.

At another point in the event, a Georgetown law student asked her about the actual evidence of Trump colluding with Russia during the 2016 campaign.

"If Trump actually colluded with the Russians, why isn't he found guilty of it after a year of investigation? Wouldn't there be some type of concrete proof by now?" Joshua Gonzalez asked.

She answered that the probe by Special Counsel Robert Mueller "takes time" and that Americans "wouldn't have any idea what's going on" with respect to what Mueller has found.

Pelosi said Mueller has already "produced a great deal" in terms of indictments of Paul Manafort, Michael Flynn, George Papadopoulos and a host of Russians.

Watch the clips above.

WATCH: College Student Confronts Pelosi for Calling Tax Cut Benefits 'Crumbs'

Wallace Presses Dem Rep: 'Is Nancy Pelosi a Liability for Democrats?'

ICE Director Fires Back at Nancy Pelosi: 'How Dare You' Call ICE Agents 'Cowardly'