http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/26/professor-bret-weinstein-reacts-violence-evergreen-state-day-without-white-people
[]
2018-05-26 00:00:00
'It's Turned Authoritarian': Former WA Prof Who Refused to Leave Campus Over His 'Whiteness' Blasts College
 
The now-former Washington state professor at the center of campus unrest over his refusal to leave campus based on his skin color returned to "Tucker Carlson Tonight" to give an update on his situation.

As Fox News Insider reported in May 2017:

Activists at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Wash. demanded that "all white people leave campus" for a "day of absence," Professor Bret Weinstein said on "Tucker Carlson Tonight." Weinstein expressed his disagreement with the plan in a statement, which led to the activists confronting him on video and demanding he resign. "They imagined that I'm a racist," Weinstein said. "That has caused them to imagine that I have no right to speak." Weinstein said the "mob" of activists is protesting perceived "white privilege." He added that even after the initial incident, college president Dr. George Bridges has ordered police to stand down from any action against the activists.

Weinstein, who Carlson noted holds a liberal political stance, said Friday that things have gotten even worse at Evergreen since he was all but forced to resign his professorship.

"[It's] taken a turn toward the authoritarian that is nothing short of breathtaking," Weinstein said.

He said that people at the school blame his initial decision to appear with Carlson as the reason violence erupted on campus.

Weinstein added that one of the only examples of "right-wing" "violence" on campus was a threat phoned in by a man in Morris Plains, N.J.

WA Prof Confronted By Race Activists: I Don't Know if It's Safe to Return

Tucker: The Left on Campus Is a 'Snake Eating Its Own Tail'

He said the man never showed up in Washington state, and has since been arrested for the threat.

He said the school is firing staff who challenge the administration's views and promoting those who support what it considers "equity."

Weinstein said the college is now millions of dollars "in the red" and that prospective students are avoiding it because of its newfound reputation.

Professor Blasts Campus 'Mob' Calling for 'Day Without White People'

Student Reacts to School Censoring Valedictorian Speech Over Reference to Jesus Christ