http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/25/bob-goodlatte-new-developments-hillary-clinton-email-probe
[]
2018-05-25 00:00:00
'Extreme Bias Never Should Have Occurred': Goodlatte Urges FBI to Provide Answers on Hillary Email Probe
 
Three FBI officials are set to testify before Congress on the handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton's private email server.

The House Judiciary and Oversight and Government Reform committees will reportedly interview Bill Priestap, assistant director of the FBI’s counterintelligence division; Michael Steinbach, formerly head of the agency’s national security division; and Steinbach’s predecessor, John Giacalone, next month.

Priestap is said to have helped decide to call Clinton’s decisions "extremely careless" and supervised agent Peter Strzok, who was later found to have been sending anti-Trump text messages to a female colleague with whom he was romantically involved.

GOPAC Chair: Clapper's Aversion to 'Spying' Is Like FDA Chief Having 'Aversion to Broccoli'

Hannity Blasts Comey: 'Did You Have a Spy in the Clinton Campaign?'

Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said lawmakers still want answers about what was happening inside the FBI when, in his view, James Comey was treating the former secretary of state differently than he treated an investigation into the Trump campaign and Russia.

"We want to know why the FBI was handling these two different matters in such extremely different ways, showing an extreme bias that never should have occurred in a presidential election," he said on "America's Newsroom."

Goodlatte said Priestap is "at the crossroads" of the activities and his testimony will be "very important." He also emphasized that Congress is waiting for a report "any day now" by the Justice Department inspector general on the Clinton probe.

Watch the interview above.

Woman Appears to Spit on Pro-Police Demonstrator at Chicago City Hall

Fleischer: FBI Would Not Have Placed Informant in Trump Campaign Without Telling Obama

'They're Not Doing Their Jobs': Pirro Says DOJ Officials Should Be Impeached for Stonewalling Congress