http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/24/mcsally-trump-made-right-move-pull-out-north-korea-summit-kim-jong-un
[]
2018-05-24 00:00:00
McSally: Kim Is a 'Gnat in Charge of a Failed State,' Trump Is Keeping Up Pressure
 
Rep. Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) said President Trump made the right move by withdrawing from a planned face-to-face summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

In a letter addressed to Kim, Trump said the June 12 summit in Singapore would be "inappropriate," pointing to "hostility" from Pyongyang in recent weeks.

BREAKING NEWS: @WhiteHouse pulls out of North Korea summit pic.twitter.com/5ndsFBpK1N — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 24, 2018

'I Don't Like It': Trump Says Kim Jong Un's 'Attitude' Changed After Trip to China

Writer: I Would Rather My Daughter Date an MS-13 Member Over a Republican

On "Happening Now," McSally, an Air Force veteran and the first American woman to fly in combat, said Kim had been "playing around" in the weeks leading up to the summit and behaving as if North Korea is an equal to the United States on the world stage.

She noted that the rhetoric coming out from the rogue regime had shifted from "posturing" back to open threats of nuclear war.

"The reality is that he's a gnat in charge of a failed state," McSally said. "President Trump is the leader of the free world, and this is not a game."

She said Trump can now continue his "maximum pressure campaign" and make it clear that the U.S. will never accept a nuclear North Korea.

"I think it was right, again, for President Trump to say, 'Enough is enough. I am not dealing with you as a peer. We are trying to give you a path forward that's good for your people, but we're not playing games with this.' So he's walking away."

Watch the segment above.

Ingraham Blasts 'Petty, Un-American' Media for Response to Potentially Bad North Korea News

Hannity Blasts Comey: 'Did You Have a Spy in the Clinton Campaign?'

'I Think It's Dead:' Nat'l Security Expert Doubts Trump-Kim Summit Will Happen