http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/24/ingraham-rips-media-north-korea-trump-meeting-being-canceled-peace-embarrassment
[]
2018-05-24 00:00:00
Ingraham Blasts Media on North Korea: 'Sudden Prospect of Peace Was More Than They Could Stand'
 
Laura Ingraham said "the real summit embarrassment" involving the United States canceling its planned meeting with North Korean officials came not from President Donald Trump, but from the American media.

She said the media's reaction to the cancellation of the summit was a "mirror" of their reaction to Trump's announcement of it initially being scheduled.

Ingraham said both reports were met with "scorn and derision."

I have decided to terminate the planned Summit in Singapore on June 12th. While many things can happen and a great opportunity lies ahead potentially, I believe that this is a tremendous setback for North Korea and indeed a setback for the world... pic.twitter.com/jT0GfxT0Lc — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 24, 2018

"A loss for the president is more important than a success for America, or even world peace," she said. "The sudden prospect of peace was frankly more than they could stand."

Ingraham played video of MSNBC host Joe Scarborough reacting to the initial news earlier this year that Trump and dictator Kim Jong Un planned to meet.

GOPAC Chair: Clapper's Aversion to 'Spying' Is Like FDA Chief Having 'Aversion to Broccoli'

Kim Jong Un 'Must Be Having a Giggle Fit': Pelosi, Dems Mock Trump for Pulling Out of Summit

Scarborough, a former Florida Republican congressman, said it was an example of "a reality show president" trying to "change the headline."

Chris Cuomo, the CNN host and brother of New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D), said he couldn't tell who might try to be the "big man" in that room during the summit.

When the meeting was cancelled, Ingraham said the reaction was the same.

Sadly, I was forced to cancel the Summit Meeting in Singapore with Kim Jong Un. pic.twitter.com/rLwXxBxFKx — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 24, 2018

Interviewed on CNN, New Jersey Democratic Sen. Robert Menendez said Trump hopefully learned that the "art of diplomacy is a lot harder than the art of the deal."

Ingraham dismissed the criticisms, saying the cancellation may have been a "grand negotiating tactic" that is "testing Kim's seriousness" of a quantifiable solution to the issue at hand.

"Let them rally against peace," she said of the media.

'Our Presidency Has Been Debased': Jeff Flake Blasts Trump in Harvard Law Commencement Speech

'What She Said Is Insane': Tucker Rips Dem Rep Who Claimed ICE Actions 'Anti-Immigrant'