http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/25/video-woman-spits-chicago-police-officer-city-hall-protest
[]
2018-05-25 00:00:00
Woman Appears to Spit on Pro-Police Demonstrator at Chicago City Hall
 
Tempers flared this week at Chicago city hall as one woman was caught on camera spitting on a man who was demonstrating against Mayor Rahm Emanuel.

The "Blue Wednesday" event was organized by the city’s Fraternal Order of Police, who accuse Emanuel of "turning his back" on the police department and "pandering to police-hating media."

The police union members held signs reading "Back the Blue" and "Blue Lives Matter" and read a statement at a city council meeting.

They were met by a group of counter-protesters, including a young woman who was seen screaming at the officers and at one point spit at one of them.

'Hostile, Separatist and Crazy': Tucker Battles Supporter of 'Blacks-Only' Memorial Day Party

Tucker Spars With BLM Supporter: 'I'm Trying to Take You Seriously, But I Can't

On "Fox & Friends" Friday, Kevin Graham, president of the Fraternal Order of Police Chicago Lodge 7, said efforts are underway to identify the woman, applauding the union members for not retaliating or engaging the counter-protesters.

He explained that the officers are upset by a decision by the independent Chicago Police Board to consider firing officer Robert Rialmo, who is suspended without pay over a fatal shooting.

Rialmo fatally shot 19-year-old Quintonio LeGrier in 2015 after LeGrier approached him with a baseball bat during a domestic disturbance. A stray bullet struck and killed 55-year-old innocent bystander Bettie Jones.

Emanuel defended his handling of police matters in a statement, arguing he is a neutral arbiter attempting to find solutions for both sides. He does not sit on the board that ruled on Rialmo's status.

"When you have people on either side of the police reform issue criticizing, it’s a sign we’re hitting it down the middle of the fairway as we continue to build trust between officers and residents, ensure oversight and accountability, and give officers the tools and training they need to be proactive in the crime fight," his spokesperson said.

Watch the clip above from 'Fox & Friends."

Gianno Caldwell: 'Black Lives Do Not Matter to Rahm Emanuel, Black Votes Do'

'This Isn't Right': Student Sues School for Not Allowing Him to Wear Trump Border Wall Shirt

'What She Said Is Insane': Tucker Rips Dem Rep Who Claimed ICE Actions 'Anti-Immigrant'