https://radio.foxnews.com/2018/05/23/benson-and-harf-05-23-18/
['Fox News Radio', 'Tom Sullivan Show', 'Fox News Talk']
2018-05-23 00:00:00
NFL Owners Approve New National Anthem Policy: Was This All About Ratings?
 
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

The Benson and Harf Show on FOX News Talk!

Stand Up! In a statement released Wednesday, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell has announced that next season, if and when any player kneels during the National Anthem, that player's team will be fined. Goodell's statement talks about players appearing unpatriotic, while praising them as patriotic, and states that kneeling during the anthem will not be allowed, while -- on the other hand -- saying that the protests have "sparked awareness" Kat & Marie debate.

Stay All Day! Starbucks has apologized and been doing a lot of damage control lately after the April incident involving a Philadelphia location manager calling the cops on two black men sparked cries of unconscious racial bias and boycotts. The company has said it will close its more than 8,000 company-owned U.S. stores on the afternoon of May 29 to provide to its nearly 175,000 U.S. employees "racial-bias education geared toward preventing discrimination." Both Starbucks founder Howard Schultz and CEO Kevin Johnson have apologized on behalf of the Seattle coffeehouse giant. In recent days, Starbucks also officially declared a "Use of the Third Place Policy," making it clear that anyone is a customer and is welcome to use its store space, including bathrooms, regardless of whether one makes a purchase. Did Starbucks go overboard? Marie & Kat take it to the calls.

Pompeo Round-up! Secretary of State Mike Pompeo testifies before the House Foreign Affairs Committee on Wednesday morning, amid growing doubts about next month's planned summit with North Korea. Secretary Pompeo said U.S. leaders are aware of the risks of the trip to North Korea, but they remain hopeful about the prospects for a deal that will result in the denuclearization of North Korea. The U.S. goal for the June 12 summit in Singapore is "complete and total denuclearization of North Korea," Pompeo said. Marie gets the latest from Rich Edson, Washington Correspondent for Fox News Channel.

Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Benson and Harf Show LIVE Monday through Friday 6-8 pm Eastern! Find out more at BensonAndHarf.com