http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/12/pirro-praises-trump-moving-us-embassy-jerusalem-he-promised-and-he-delivered
[]
2018-05-12 00:00:00
Pirro Praises Trump for Moving U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem: 'He Promised and He Delivered'
 
Israeli Ambassador to US: Netanyahu's Iran Intel 'Presented a Smoking Bomb'

In her Opening Statement, Judge Jeanine Pirro praised President Trump for moving the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.

She called the move "a truly historic moment" in Israel's history, which comes shortly after Trump chose to withdraw the United States from the Iran nuclear deal.

Pirro added that the president reassured the world that his word is worth more than any former U.S. president who made a promise to move the embassy to Jerusalem.

"His word is worth more than any treaty, and stronger than any U.N. resolution," she said. "He promised and he delivered."

Pirro said the president's exit from the Iran deal "became a virtual certainty" when Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu revealed intelligence that accused Iran of "brazenly lying" about its nuclear weapons development.

She said that former President Barack Obama's "delusional deal" abandoned Israel and Egypt and alienated the Sunni Muslims, adding that it "destroyed 70 years of bipartisan U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East."

"The idea that [Iran] seeks a successful nuclear energy program is absurd to even anyone with even half a brain," she said.

Pirro also said that withdrawing from the Iran deal represents the U.S. "standing shoulder-to-shoulder" with Israel, and against the rest of the world.

"[Trump] not only sends a message to Iran, but to Russia as well, that the U.S. is back as a dominant regional player after the Obama years," she stated.

.@JudgeJeanine: "@realDonaldTrump not only sends a message to Iran but to Russia as well, that the U.S. is back as a dominant regional player after the Obama years." pic.twitter.com/utIx20uLxk — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 13, 2018

Watch more above.

Judge Jeanine Calls Out GOP: 'Get Some Guts & Start Wielding Power'

Judge Jeanine on Trump-North Korea Talks: Kim Isn't Dealing With Obama, Who 'Buckles to Dictators'

'Get Back In the Woods': Pirro Blasts Hillary for Claiming Trump Is Blind to Russian Threat