http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/21/clinton-college-graduation-speech-other-democrats-schools-five-reacts
[]
2018-05-21 00:00:00
'Hillary's Agony Tour' Continues: The Five Reacts to Democrats' Graduation Speeches
 
The panel on The Five reacted to weekend graduation speeches given by several liberal politicians.

At Yale University in New Haven, Conn., Hillary Clinton pulled a black Ushanka hat out from behind her podium and declared, "I brought a hat too-- a Russian hat."

"No, I'm not over it. I still think about the 2016 election," Clinton told the graduates.

“No, I’m not over it” - Hillary Clinton continuing to talk about her 2016 election loss and even takes a jab at President Trump in her speech at Yale’s Class Day. What do you think of her comments? pic.twitter.com/WRAr1PeCfp — Fox & Friends First (@FoxFriendsFirst) May 21, 2018

Farther north at Mount Holyoke, a historically female college in Massachusetts, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi was the graduation speaker.

'They Stand for the Anthem': Trump Dings NFL While Honoring NASCAR Champion Truex Jr

'I Think It's Dead:' Nat'l Security Expert Doubts Trump-Kim Summit Will Happen

Nancy Pelosi, House Minority Leader, and #MountHolyoke Commencement Speaker’s personal hero is Frances Perkins, the first female Cabinet member in the nation's history and a #MountHolyoke alumna. Watch the #MountHolyoke2018 Commencement live: https://t.co/cE62zGfg01 pic.twitter.com/3Yfml3i9Mg — Mount Holyoke College (@mtholyoke) May 20, 2018

She praised the thousands who have marched "for women's health, and disability rights and gun violence prevention" as well as in favor of "DREAMers and immigrants."

At Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va., former President Jimmy Carter joked that school president Jerry Falwell Jr. told him his speech's attendance was more than that of President Donald Trump's.

And, at the University of Maryland in College Park, former Vice President Al Gore told the crowd a Trump supporter wrote that the president is "chemotherapy for America."

Former Vice President Al Gore delivers the 2018 commencement address for University of Maryland at Xfinity Center. https://t.co/W522aQyrWH — Circa (@Circa) May 20, 2018

"Some experiments are terminated early for ethical reasons," Gore added.

"Hillary's agony tour... lasted longer than her campaign," Greg Gutfeld said of Clinton's graduation speech, pointing out that it has been more than a year and a half since the 2016 election.

He called the rest of the speeches the "last chance" for colleges to "pelt you with liberal garbage."

Jesse Watters said he is still waiting to hear from a school that would invite him to speak at graduation.

He said he would be "much more electric than these has-beens."

Kimberly Guilfoyle said that when Clinton pulled the Ushanka from behind the podium, "all I saw was [the] Uranium One [scandal]."

Gaetz: Sessions May Have 'Stockholm Syndrome' With His Captors in the 'Deep State'

Writer: I Would Rather My Daughter Date an MS-13 Member Over a Republican