http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/06/judge-jeanine-pirro-blasts-russia-probe-expansion-rod-rosenstein-power
[]
2018-05-06 00:00:00
Pirro Blasts Russia Probe Expansion: End the 'Mueller-Comey-Rosenstein Cabal' for Good
 
Judge Jeanine Targets 'Bozo' James Clapper: A 'Liar and Leaker' Just Like Comey

In her Opening Statement, Judge Jeanine Pirro questioned the power of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein after expanding the Russia probe last year.

She said that in "the most blatant display of public corruption," Rosenstein appointed former FBI director James Comey and Special Counsel Robert Mueller to head the collusion investigation, even though Rosenstein testified that he wanted Comey fired.

"[Rosenstein] has irrefutable power -- more than the president himself, some would say -- because he convinced a dithering, unsure, insecure, uncertain, spineless, timid attorney general ... to back off and renege on his duty to run the Department of Justice," she said.

Pirro said that Rosenstein also had his own bias against President Trump, having been rejected by him to run the FBI.

"His interest ... is far beyond that job," she stated. "His interest is to protect his handling of a case ultimately permitting Hillary Clinton to get approval to sell 20 percent of America's uranium to Russian interests."

If ever you doubted that the mission of special counsel Robert Mueller in the Russia investigation is to secure the scalp of a sitting President…then listen up. #OpeningStatement pic.twitter.com/ynHbqyZXUN — Jeanine Pirro (@JudgeJeanine) May 6, 2018

Pirro added that Judge T.S. Ellis III questioned if Rosentstein's team was overstepping its authority to investigate collusion in 2016 after indicting former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort for actions 11 years prior.

'What does 2005 have to do with the 2016 election or the 2017 firing of James Comey?" Pirro asked.

Pirro asked the president's attorney and former New York City mayor, Rudy Giuliani, about the expansion of the Russia probe on Saturday.

"The fact is, this plays into what my client, the president of the United States, has been saying for quite some time. The judge in sum and substance said this is a witch hunt with a tremendous amount of government misconduct attached to it. Attorney General Sessions should step up and dismiss this entire investigation," he said.

“The President did not in any way violate campaign finance laws."-@judgejeanine's exclusive interview with President Trump’s attorney, Rudy Giuliani on #Justice pic.twitter.com/FNTKFUItyp — Jeanine Pirro (@JudgeJeanine) May 6, 2018

Pirro said that Ellis suggested Mueller's team is lying about the Russia probe and just want a damning statement by Manafort to help them unseat President Trump.

"You don't really care about Mr. Manafort,” Ellis told Mueller’s team in a hearing Friday. “You really care about what information Mr. Manafort can give you to lead you to Mr. Trump and an impeachment, or whatever."

Pirro said that the special counsel's team is telling Ellis that their authority can't be challenged through the courts.

"It's time to end the Mueller-Comey-Rosenstein cabal once and for all," she said.

Watch Judge Jeanine's interview with Rudy Giuliani below.

Pirro Rips Comey: ‘You’re a Liar and You’re a Leaker’

Judge Jeanine Calls Out GOP: 'Get Some Guts & Start Wielding Power'

'How Dare You!': Judge Jeanine Slams Top FBI, DOJ Officials Who 'Conspired' Against Trump