https://radio.foxnews.com/2018/05/24/congressman-jim-himes-on-trump-pulling-out-of-noko-summit/
['Todd Starnes Show']
2018-05-24 00:00:00
Congressman Jim Himes on Trump Pulling out of Singapore Summit: This Cancellation Might Make Sense If It’s All About Getting Everyone On the Same Page
 
President Trump canceled the highly anticipated summit with North Korea that had been set for next month, calling the talks "inappropriate" following the "hostility" displayed in the latest comments from dictator Kim Jong Un. The move to pull out of the summit, slated to take place in Singapore on June 12, came after threats from Kim to call off the talks. In a letter to Kim, Trump said the world, and North Korea, had lost a "great opportunity for lasting peace and great prosperity." "Based on the tremendous anger and open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting," Trump wrote in a letter to Kim on Thursday. "Therefore, please let this letter serve to represent that the Singapore summit, for the good of both parties, but to the detriment of the world, will not take place."

Fox News Radio's Marie Harf got reaction from Congressman Jim Himes (D-CT) who sits on the House Intelligence committee and a leading voice on all national security related issues.

On North Korea: if this is all designed to set up the poker game if you will to our advantage that's a good thing (1:09) I do worry, Both leaders, American and North Korean are unpredictable. It's a hair trigger situation over there. So hope we can move back to a place where we're figuring out soon how to get back to the negotiating table. (1:20)

Do you see a Path Forward for Pompeo to get back to the negotiating table: I have been pleasantly surprised by Pompeo's commitment to making the State Department robust again. I do think it's possible. (1:45)

On the Russia investigation/briefings: Never in our history has the Justice department or the FBI briefed members of Congress about an ongoing investigation. (3:30) This is all one big long campaign to cast doubt on the FBI investigation so when it wraps up and perhaps has something, and it has something the President doesn't like he can say " I told you so" (5:30)

Watch The Full Interview Below: