http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/24/professor-calls-trump-send-national-guard-chicago-gang-violence
[]
2018-05-24 00:00:00
IL Professor: Trump Should Send National Guard to Fight Chicago Violence
 
A DePaul University professor is calling on President Trump to follow through on his threat to bring federal law enforcement agents into the school's home town of Chicago.

"Wannabe-commandos terrorize neighborhoods, challenging not only local authorities but the very authority you exercise as president of this great nation," Jason Hill wrote in The Hill newspaper.

Jason Hill on Chicago violence: "Americans have got to wake up and realize that a respect for the rule of the law has to be foremost in the defense of our great republic." #TheStory pic.twitter.com/wMzgULBJpO — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 24, 2018

"The potency of your own presidency is ridiculed when thugs and barbaric criminals take it upon themselves to establish lawless fiefdoms," he continued.

On "The Story," Hill told Martha MacCallum that Trump should use his presidential power to dispatch the National Guard, Navy or Marines to Chicago.

'Our Presidency Has Been Debased': Jeff Flake Blasts Trump in Harvard Law Commencement Speech

Tomi Lahren on New NFL Anthem Policy: Americans Used Their Remotes and Made a Difference

He said President Ike Eisenhower did the same with the Guard to enforce integration of schools, and that President George H.W. Bush did so in Los Angeles to protect the public after the Rodney King verdict triggered riots.

Hill said there is a "systematic absence of law and order running amok in this country" and that Rahm Emanuel (D) is an "impotent mayor" in the face of the violence.

Hill wrote in The Hill that he is a Jamaican immigrant who came to America with little money or prospects but has achieved success while chasing the American Dream.

Jason Hill on police brutality: "There's a systematic absence of law and order that's running amok in this country." #TheStory pic.twitter.com/yTRG8UPUWN — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 24, 2018

He said he is "pained" when students tell him they must drop out of his class and join one of the violent gangs on Chicago's South Side in order to avoid harassment or even death.

Watch more above.

Kim Jong Un 'Must Be Having a Giggle Fit': Pelosi, Dems Mock Trump for Pulling Out of Summit

'A Slow-Rolling Disaster': The Five Says That in CA, the 'Blue Wave' Is 'Crashing' for Dems