http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/08/tomi-lahren-says-trump-must-act-help-cattle-ranchers-beef-industry
['Tomi Lahren']
2018-05-08 00:00:00
'Made in USA' Used to Mean Something: Tomi Lahren Says Trump Must Act to Help Cattle Ranchers
 
Tomi Lahren to Conservatives, Trump Supporters: 'Don't Attach Yourself to Kanye'

Tomi Lahren: Trump Having 'Amazing Diplomatic Victories' Despite Being Labeled 'Incapable'

Contrary to popular belief, Make America Great Again is not about a conservative resurgence. It’s about a hardworking, God-fearing resurgence of the American people.

It’s time for final thoughts.

For the last 20-plus years, the American worker has been drop-kicked by both political parties. But it hasn’t just been those steel, coal, and factory workers.

American farmers and cattlemen have also been kicked in the teeth. I know. My uncle is a rancher, and feels the pinch every day.

Yet you don’t hear much about that. Why? Because the flyover states don’t matter to the mainstream media.

Well, I’m going to use my voice, my platform - and your attention - to change that.

Imagine your entire livelihood dictated by the bank, the weather, and luck. Yeah. American cowboys and cattlemen have never had it easy. But these last few years have been brutal.

The costs of raising U.S. cattle have risen, while the price earned on that cattle has dropped. Many ranchers struggle to stay operational. It’s a daily battle, and it’s one you’ll hardly hear them complain about. They don’t want a government handout - just a fighting chance.

In 2015, Congress repealed the COOL law - which stands for country of origin labeling - on your beef and pork products. Foreign beef producers and the big meat packers lobbied hard for the repeal, and our legislators folded.

I know what you’re thinking. Why do you care what happens to a bunch of ranchers in middle America?

Well, where is your meat coming from? Do you know?

I’ll tell you where a lot of it is coming from: Argentina, Canada, Brazil, Australia, Japan - and other places. It’s not coming from the American rancher like it once did.

Under regulations Trump inherited from the Obama Administration, the beef you find in a local grocery store can be labeled ‘Product of USA’ as long as it was packaged here. So it could have been born, raised and slaughtered virtually anywhere.

Let’s say half a carcass of beef arrives from Uruguay. A U.S. packer can cut that carcass up in a U.S. packing plant, and label it “Product of USA.” Worse, if a packer unwraps the meat and simply rewraps it, it can be labeled that same “Product of USA.”

So what can be done? With a stroke of his pen, President Trump has the power to mandate all meat is labeled with its country of origin.

See, I don’t just believe - I KNOW the United States produces the best food, and the best beef, in the world. And every American has the right to know where their food comes from.

If you still want to eat that foreign-raised stuff, go for it. But you should know what you’re getting. It’s as simple as that. Why the heck would you put mystery beef on your table?

The American rancher has been squeezed, poked and prodded by the meat packing industry. They control the market. They control the price. They buy this cheap foreign beef, and your American ranchers are going under - and not because they can’t compete in quality, but because that can’t compete with mystery meat brought in from who knows where

I know most of you aren’t cattlemen, and you don’t raise livestock. But you do eat it, and you deserve America’s best.

If your heartland neighbors can raise enough beef to feed the United States, and much of the world, why would we import it?

“Made in the USA” used to mean something. And under this "America First" president, it can mean something again.

Those are my Final Thoughts. From LA, God Bless and take care.

Tomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'

Tomi Lahren on Michelle Wolf's Performance: 'Trump Didn’t Create Leftist Media’s Ugly Side, He Just Exposed It'