https://radio.foxnews.com/2018/05/22/benson-and-harf-05-22-18/
['Fox News Radio', 'Tom Sullivan Show', 'Fox News Talk']
2018-05-22 00:00:00
Senator Mike Lee & Chairman Of Ways And Means Kevin Brady
 
Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

The Benson and Harf Show on FOX News Talk!

Should He Stay OR Should He Go? House Speaker Paul Ryan has "run out of juice" and faces questions about whether he can remain in the job until Election Day, according to a new story in Politico. The piece headlined "Ryan facing growing doubts about hold on speakership," quotes a "senior Republican lawmaker" who wants a vote on the House speaker to take place soon. "The conference is in open warfare. Paul has run out of juice," the lawmaker told Politico. "It became clear on Friday that it's time to let go." Ryan announced in April that he would retire from the House after finishing out his term. The Janesville Republican was first elected to the House in 1998. "No one's plotting to take him out at this point, and Ryan insists he's not going anywhere," the Politico piece notes. Speaker Ryan pushed back this morning. Guy & Marie take it to the calls.

We'll See! President Trump on Tuesday said his potentially historic summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un that had been set for June 12 in Singapore could be postponed. "We're moving along. We'll see what happens. If it doesn't happen, maybe it will happen later," the president said from the Oval Office before a meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in to discuss the sitdown. "You never know about deals. I've made a lot of deals. You never really know. It may not work out for June 12," Trump said. He would not say if he and Kim had spoken since the North Korean dictator threw a monkey wrench into the summit plans last week by declaring that unilateral denuclearization was off the table -- something Trump had said was essential to any deal. Guy & Marie debate whether the meeting will happen at all.

Plus: Chairman of the Ways & Means Committee Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-8) talks welfare reform & Senator Mike Lee weighs in on the passing of Right-to-Try.

Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Benson and Harf Show LIVE Monday through Friday 6-8 pm Eastern! Find out more at BensonAndHarf.com