http://insider.foxnews.com/2017/12/27/5-things-you-didnt-know-about-tomi-lahren
[]
2017-12-27 00:00:00
5 Things You Didn't Know About Tomi Lahren
 
Final Thoughts: A Christmas Message for Melting Snowflakes

Fox News fans already know Tomi Lahren from her viral Final Thoughts videos.

Now Fox News Insider has caught up with the UNLV alum for the inside scoop on her upbringing, how she comes up with those fiery commentaries and more.

See what Tomi had to say below...

I have a chihuahua mutt named Kota. I rescued her from the Dallas Humane Society two years ago. She’s as spunky as I am and doesn’t take "no" for an answer. Rescue animals have a special place in my heart.

My family has always chosen adoption over the pet store and I hope you do too!

My parents have been married for 36 years this June. I wouldn’t be where I am in this world without their constant love and support. They taught me that anything worth doing is worth doing right.

I credit my public speaking abilities to my parents. They never talked baby talk to me. I think that’s why I’ve always been able to speak and write well.

Running is my exercise of choice. I run seven miles each and every morning. It is on my runs where I am able to clear my head and plan for the day. I often come up with my Final Thoughts on these morning runs and I even stop to type notes and one-liners into my phone en route! I also come up with some of my best tweets when I run.

I am blessed to live near the beach in sunny Southern California. There’s something about that ocean and salty air that makes the seven miles suck less. My running addiction has left me with some pretty gnarly scars on my knees but hey, when you run nearly 50 miles a week a few tumbles are bound to happen.

I’ve recently started doing Cryotherapy for my knees and ankles. Fingers crossed it’ll do the trick and keep me on my toes!

My parents both come from ranching families. Although we didn’t have a ranch when I was growing up, we did have horses.

There’s nothing like growing up with wide open spaces, fresh air, and horses grazing the pasture. Living out in the country is also a great place to practice my Second Amendment freedoms.

I have two tattoos. I got my first tattoo on my 21st birthday. I designed it myself. It is a wheat leaf crossed with the state flower of South Dakota, the pasque flower.

It’s a reminder of where I came from.

My second tattoo is a roman numeral 11 with a semicolon. Eleven is my lucky number. It shows up constantly and randomly in my everyday life.

The semicolon is a reminder to keep going when I could easily stop. I glance at my wrist for good luck before I make TV appearances or tape my “Final Thoughts.”

You can see Tomi's "Final Thoughts" commentaries, here. Follow her on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram!

Check out the inside scoop on your favorite Fox News personalities...

Judge Jeanine Pirro

Harris Faulkner

Melissa Francis

Sandra Smith

Lisa Boothe

Abby Huntsman