http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/20/judge-jeanine-pirro-rips-jeff-sessions-he-most-dangerous-man-america
[]
2018-05-20 00:00:00
Pirro Blasts AG Sessions: He Is the 'Most Dangerous Man in America'
 
In her Opening Statement, Judge Jeanine Pirro labeled Attorney General Jeff Sessions as "the most dangerous man in America" at the one-year anniversary of the Mueller probe.

Pirro said the investigation has been staffed with the "singularly most-biased special counsel attorneys in American history."

"We have witnessed events unfold which are so unbelievable and so unimaginable, you'd have to be wearing a tin foil hat or be a card-carrying member of the conspiracy party to even believe it exists," she said.

Pirro called the reported FBI informant that was placed in the Trump campaign "a classic totalitarian Third World tactic."

She said that former Attorney General Loretta Lynch would had to have approved the informant.

Judge Jeanine Applauds McCabe's Firing: He 'Should Have Been Taken Out in Cuffs'

Judge Jeanine Calls Out GOP: 'Get Some Guts & Start Wielding Power'

"If she didn't, then the FBI under James Comey was even more corrupt, going rogue in their attempt to destroy Donald Trump," Pirro said.

She said that Sessions is now, in fact, the most dangerous person to President Trump's agenda, the Republican Party and to all Americans.

.@JudgeJeanine slammed Attorney General Jeff Sessions, claiming that he "has done nothing to make anyone responsible for the blatant corruption, the unmistakable perjury, the in-your-face obstruction of our laws that we've seen play out every day." https://t.co/ujPH1DTO8I pic.twitter.com/2Ov0E42xJr — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 20, 2018

She said that he has not done anything to make anyone responsible for the "blatant corruption, the unmistakable perjury [and] the in-your-face obstruction of our laws."

"The most powerful prosecutor in the country ... The man who holds the scales of justice in his hands hides behind the coattails of one [Deputy Attorney General] Rod Rosenstein," she said. "Jeff Sessions is indeed the most dangerous man in America."

She said that Sessions hasn’t done anything to create confidence on the part of the American people in the justice system.

"With all the power and might of the Department of Justice behind him, he continues to do nothing," she said.

Watch more above.

Pirro Blasts Russia Probe Expansion: End the 'Mueller-Comey-Rosenstein Cabal' for Good

Judge Jeanine Targets 'Bozo' James Clapper: A 'Liar and Leaker' Just Like Comey

Chaffetz: Informant Placed in 2016 Trump Campaign Is 'Spying by the Very Definition'