http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/24/nancy-pelosi-democrats-mock-trump-pulling-out-north-korea-summit
[]
2018-05-24 00:00:00
Kim Jong Un 'Must Be Having a Giggle Fit': Pelosi, Dems Mock Trump for Pulling Out of Summit
 
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and other Democratic lawmakers roundly mocked President Trump for pulling out of a planned face-to-face meeting with North Korea leader Kim Jong Un.

In a letter addressed to Kim, Trump said the June 12 summit in Singapore would be "inappropriate," pointing to "hostility" from Pyongyang in recent weeks.

BREAKING NEWS: @WhiteHouse pulls out of North Korea summit pic.twitter.com/5ndsFBpK1N — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 24, 2018

Pelosi (D-Calif.) said during her weekly press conference that Trump's decision to cancel the meeting is a "good thing" for Kim.

'She Holds a Mystical Power Over Them': Tucker Asks Why Dems Are Afraid to Oppose Pelosi

'So Inhumane': Pelosi Scolds Trump, Claims He Called Undocumented Immigrants 'Animals'

“He got global recognition and regard. He’s the big winner. And when he got this letter from the president saying, ‘OK, never mind,’ he must be having a giggle fit right now in North Korea,” Pelosi said.

Meantime, Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) tweeted that the Nobel Peace Prize some speculated Trump could receive for helping denuclearize the Korean Peninsula "will have to wait."

N Korea summit cancelled. I guess that Nobel Peace Prize will have to wait. Covfefe! — Gerry Connolly (@GerryConnolly) May 24, 2018

Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) tweeted that "the art of diplomacy is a lot harder than the art of the deal," adding he was amazed that the administration was surprised at North Korea's behavior.

The art of diplomacy is a lot harder than the art of the deal. It's amazing to me that the administration is somehow shocked the North Koreans are acting as North Koreans act. https://t.co/7lBC8fTuA5 — Senator Bob Menendez (@SenatorMenendez) May 24, 2018

And Rep. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) tweeted that National Security Adviser John Bolton "must be stoked," and "this is what happens when amateurs are combined with warmongers."

Other Democrats expressed concern that the chances of a military confrontation are increasing after today's action.

John Bolton must be stoked. — Brian Schatz (@brianschatz) May 24, 2018

This is a setback. This is an error. This is what happens when amateurs are combined with warmongers. This is NOT secretly smart and clever, and any pundit or politician who even flirts with that idea is deeply, deeply unserious. — Brian Schatz (@brianschatz) May 24, 2018

Many of us feared that the summit between @POTUS & Kim Jong-Un would be a great show that produced nothing enduring. If a summit is to be reconstituted, the US must show strength & achieve a concrete, verifiable, enduring elimination of Kim Jong-Un’s nuclear capabilities. — Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) May 24, 2018

The cancellation by @POTUS of the North Korea Summit with Kim Jong Un has just increased the chances of war. The timing is particularly odd given that North Korea allegedly just destroyed parts of a nuclear test site as a show of good faith. I strongly urge Trump to reconsider. https://t.co/NlEhM1JpFI — Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) May 24, 2018

If you’re like me, and worried this sudden, out of nowhere surge of Noeth Korea “diplomacy” was just an effort to check a box before moving to unauthorized military action, today is a really, really bad day. — Chris Murphy (@ChrisMurphyCT) May 24, 2018

You can't begin a negotiation with NK by advocating for the worst conclusion for its leader & expect that negotiation to succeed. President Trump did little to disavow this declaration from his advisors & has approached this summit from the outset with naivete and inconsistency. — Ed Markey (@SenMarkey) May 24, 2018

Watch the "Outnumbered" co-hosts react above.

WATCH: College Student Confronts Pelosi for Calling Tax Cut Benefits 'Crumbs'

Wallace Presses Dem Rep: 'Is Nancy Pelosi a Liability for Democrats?'

ICE Director Fires Back at Nancy Pelosi: 'How Dare You' Call ICE Agents 'Cowardly'