http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/21/jillian-mele-5-things-you-didnt-know-facts-photos-family
[]
2018-05-21 00:00:00
5 Things You Didn't Know About Jillian Mele
 
5 Things You Didn't Know About Abby Huntsman

Ainsley Earhardt Donates $50K of Book Proceeds to Folds of Honor

Jillian Mele is one of the newest additions to the "Fox & Friends" lineup, co-hosting "Fox & Friends First" at 5am ET alongside Rob Schmitt and reporting the latest headlines throughout the morning with Steve, Brian and Ainsley.

Fox News Insider caught up with Jillian to learn more...

1. I grew up a ballerina. I danced for 13 years and it was my favorite thing to do as a kid. Tap, jazz, ballet – you name it, I did it all! Hindsight is always 20/20, but if I could go back, I would have continued with ballet. I stopped dancing when I wanted to pursue other sports, which leads me to the next thing you may not know.

2. Sports have always been huge in my life. I grew up going to every Philadelphia Flyers home game with my dad, and every year we went to the Flyers Wives Fight for Lives Carnival with my family. That's where this photo of me with my bother and cousin is from.

Three years ago, in Aruba, where we vacation, I played golf for the first time with my dad. Since then, I've been hooked. My love of ballet as a kid is equivalent to my love of golf as an adult. My very first TV job was in sports, and ever since then, I've done both news and sports. I guess you can say sports is in my blood!

But probably the best thing to happen in my sports life was covering the Eagles’ Super Bowl parade this year in Philly – my dream come true!

3. Sticking with the athletic theme, I'm super "outdoorsy." I climbed Mt. Sinai in Egypt in 2009 with my brother.

And a few years ago, I climbed the majority of a Grand Canyon trail down and back in one day. I had to scrap a few miles or I would have run out of daylight, but both of those accomplishments are things I will never forget... probably because I was in pain for days!

4. My very first job was as a cashier at O'Neill's Food Market in Glenside, Pennsylvania. I proudly wore that green uniform! To this day, I have to have my bills facing the same way in my wallet and I still bag my own groceries.

A year ago, I went back home to do a piece for “Fox & Friends” to introduce me to the viewers, and I got back in that uniform like nothing changed! Some things just stick with you.

5. The saying "it's like riding a bike" doesn't apply to me. I can't ride a bike. I used to be able to, quite well actually, but every time I've tried as an adult, I can't do it...

... I'll stick with golf!

Be sure to follow Jillian on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, and catch her weekday mornings on "Fox & Friends First" and "Fox & Friends."

See more about your favorite Fox News hosts...

Ainsley Earhardt

Judge Jeanine

Tomi Lahren

Shannon Bream

Sandra Smith

Harris Faulkner