http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/05/23/hannity-rips-comey-spying-donald-trump-campaign-did-you-spy-clinton
[]
2018-05-23 00:00:00
Hannity Blasts Comey: 'Did You Have a Spy in the Clinton Campaign?'
 
Sean Hannity ripped former FBI Director James Comey for his latest harsh criticism President Donald Trump.

"Facts matter. The FBI’s use of Confidential Human Sources (the actual term) is tightly regulated and essential to protecting the country," Comey wrote. "Attacks on the FBI and lying about its work will do lasting damage to our country. How will Republicans explain this to their grandchildren?"

Facts matter. The FBI’s use of Confidential Human Sources (the actual term) is tightly regulated and essential to protecting the country. Attacks on the FBI and lying about its work will do lasting damage to our country. How will Republicans explain this to their grandchildren? — James Comey (@Comey) May 23, 2018

Hannity said Comey should instead worry about "explaining to his grandchildren" how his actions during the Clinton and Trump investigations tainted the reputation of the bureau.

Tucker Says Mexico Is 'Hostile Foreign Power,' Notes All Presidential Candidates Pledged to Help Illegals Enter US

ICE Director Blasts Trump's Critics: Calling MS-13 Animals Was Being 'Kind'

"[He's] using FBI jargon to spin this," Hannity said, saying that the placement of a spy in the Trump campaign would be unprecedented.

Dangerous time when our country is led by those who will lie about anything, backed by those who will believe anything, based on information from media sources that will say anything. Americans must break out of that bubble and seek truth. — James Comey (@Comey) May 23, 2018

"Did you have a spy in the Clinton campaign?" Hannity asked.

He said that Comey is "corrupt" and that the Yonkers, N.Y. native "can't keep his big mouth shut."

Hannity said he echoed President Donald Trump's sentiment that Comey's firing was a "great service to this country."

Watch more above from Sean's Opening Monologue.

Gowdy Cautions Dems on Bipartisan Russia Meeting: Have an Open Mind and Don't 'Leak Like a Sieve'

He's 'Qualified to Be a VT Senator': Gutfeld Reacts to 30-Year-Old Man Losing Eviction Battle With Parents