http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/05/11/9-royal-wedding-traditions-and-etiquette-you-probably-havent-heard-of_a_23432966/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage
['Kelsey Borresen', 'Weddings Editor', 'The Huffington Post']
2018-05-11 00:00:00
9 Royal Wedding Traditions and Etiquette You Probably Haven't Heard Of
 
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s big day is fast approaching, which got us thinking about all of the British royal wedding traditions we may (or may not) see on May 19.

Sure, you may be aware that female wedding guests don fancy hats and fascinators for the ceremony (a British custom not just reserved for royals). Who could forget the bold headwear Princess Beatrice of York wore at the wedding of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge? But there’s probably quite a few traditions you’ve never heard of before. Below, we delve into some of the lesser-known ones. 1. The bride carries a sprig of myrtle in her bouquet.

Dan Kitwood via Getty Images Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge, holding her wedding bouquet, which included a sprig of myrtle.

Andrew Milligan/PA Images via Getty Images Prince William places the wedding ring on Kate's finger on April 29, 2011.

Princess Diana Archive via Getty Images David Avery, head baker at the Royal Naval Cooking School, displays Charles and Diana's multi-tier fruitcake in 1981.

Peter Macdiarmid via Getty Images The bridal bouquet Kate held on her wedding day was placed on the Grave of the Unknown Warrior at Westminster Abbey.

This tradition began in 1923 with the Queen Mother as a way to honor her late brother Capt. Fergus Bowes-Lyon, who was killed during World War I. Since then, other royal brides ― even those who did not marry at Westminster Abbey ― send the bridal bouquet to be laid on the grave on their behalf. 6. The royal family member must receive the queen’s formal permission to tie the knot.

CHRIS JACKSON via Getty Images The queen must approve the marriages of the first six people in line for the throne.

Princess Diana Archive via Getty Images Charles donned a military uniform on his wedding day in July 1981.

Hugo Burnand/Clarence House via Reuters Will and Kate pose for an official portrait with their families and the wedding party on April 29, 2011.