http://www.huffingtonpost.in/2018/05/28/delhi-police-reads-out-sunanda-pushkars-last-e-mail-to-shashi-tharoor-court-to-decide-on-chargesheet-on-june-5_a_23445073/?utm_hp_ref=in-homepage
['Rohini Chatterji', 'General Assignment Editor', 'Huffpost India']
2018-05-28 00:00:00
Delhi Police Reads Out Sunanda Pushkar's Last E-mail To Shashi Tharoor, Court To Decide On Chargesheet On June 5
 
The Delhi Police on Monday, while urging a special court to take cognizance of its chargesheet in the Sunanda Pushkar case, read out her last email to her husband Shashi Tharoor before the court.

According to Indian Express, Additional Public Prosecutor Atul Srivastava read out the email, sent to Tharoor nine days before her death, where Pushkar had written a poem.

The report quoted the email as saying, "I don't care about the tests. I have no will to live. All I pray is death."

Tharoor was named in the chargesheet filed by the Delhi police before the court on May 14. He has been charged with cruelty and abetment of suicide.

While hearing the plea of the Delhi police, the court said it the next hearing of the case would be on June 5 where it would decide whether to take congnizance of the chargesheet.

NDTV reported that the police also told court that Pushkar had died due to poisoning and 27 Alprax tablets were found in her room. The report also quoted the chargesheet saying Tharoor ignored Pushkar as she was slipping into depression and she had Alprax.

Pushkar was said to be ill at the time of her death.

News18 quoted Srivastava as saying, "Sunanda Pushkar had ante mortem injuries (injuries from before death) on her body which is reflected on her post mortem too. When she was hospitalized, she had high fever and cannula."

When the chargesheet was filed earlier this month, Tharoor had dismissed the police reports saying, "I have taken note of the filing of this preposterous charge sheet and intend to contest it vigorously. No one who knew Sunanda believes she would ever have committed suicide, let alone abetment on my part. If this is conclusion arrived at after four plus years of investigation."

He also said, "It does not speak well of the methods or motivations of the Delhi Police. In October 17, the Law Officer made a statement in the Delhi High Court that they have not found anything against anyone and now in 6 months they say that I have abetted a suicide. Unbelievable!"

Pushkar was found dead under mysterious circumstances at the Leela Hotel in Delhi on January 17, 2014.