http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/05/19/meghan-markles-wedding-dress-details-are-absolutely-stunning_a_23438604/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage
['Carly Ledbetter']
2018-05-19 00:00:00
Meghan Markle's Wedding Dress Details Are Absolutely Stunning
 
It’s the moment royal wedding fans have been waiting for: Meghan Markle just revealed her wedding dress to the world. The former actress arrived at Windsor Castle in a vintage Rolls-Royce Phantom IV on Saturday. As soon as she stepped out of the car, Markle gave fans a glimpse of her gorgeous wedding gown, designed by Clare Waight Keller of Givenchy. Waight Keller, who is British, became the first female artistic director at Givenchy last year. The stunning, modern silk dress has three-quarter-length sleeves, an open bateau neckline and a train cushioned by triple silk organza, according to Kensington Palace. Markle also wore white gold and diamond Galanterie de Cartier earrings and a Reflection de Cartier bracelet, both from Cartier.

Press Association

Markle wore her hair up with a veil and Queen Mary’s diamond bandeau tiara, according to Kensington Palace. “The diamond bandeau is English and was made in 1932, with the entre brooch dating from 1893,” the palace said.

PA Wire/PA Images

OLI SCARFF via Getty Images

OWEN HUMPHREYS via Getty Images

BEN STANSALL via Getty Images

Kensington Palace released details about the dress on Saturday, shortly after Markle’s arrival. “After meeting Ms. Waight Keller in early 2018, Ms. Markle chose to work with her for her timeless and elegant aesthetic, impeccable tailoring, and relaxed demeanour,” the statement said. “Ms. Markle and Ms. Waight Keller worked closely together on the design. The dress epitomises a timeless minimal elegance referencing the codes of the iconic House of Givenchy and showcasing the expert craftsmanship of its world-renowned Parisian couture atelier founded in 1952.” The gorgeous veil includes a nod to all 53 countries of the Commonwealth, as Waight Keler added in the “distinctive flora” of each country, according to Kensington Palace.

PA Wire/PA Images

PA Wire/PA Images

Mike Egerton - PA Images via Getty Images

Prince Harry and his brother, Prince William, wore military dress for the occasion.

ODD ANDERSEN via Getty Images

Prior to the big day, fans couldn’t stop speculating about which designer Markle would choose for her wedding dress. For her official engagement photos with Prince Harry, the former actress wore a sheer gown from the British design house Ralph & Russo that reportedly cost a whopping $75,000.

A post shared by Kensington Palace (@kensingtonroyal) on Dec 21, 2017 at 3:59am PST

Many thought she would choose Ralph & Russo again, or go with designers Erdem, Jenny Packham, Christopher Bailey, Stella McCartney or Sarah Burton for Alexander McQueen, like the Duchess of Cambridge did for her 2011 nuptials. Markle’s mom sparked speculation that her daughter might go with Burberry, as Ragland was spotted heading to LAX with a garment bag from the designer in hand on Tuesday. The bride chose Stella McCartney for her second, more relaxed dress. She changed just before the couple took off in a Jaguar E-Type for their private reception with 200 friends and family members. The high-necked gown in lily white silk crepe showed off Markle’s shoulders. Her shoes cleverly served as “something blue” ― their soles were painted in baby blue, according to Kensington Palace. Prince Harry also changed out of his military attire into a more evening-appropriate tuxedo.

PA Wire/PA Images

PA Wire/PA Images

Markle wasn’t the only one in Stella ― Oprah ran to the designer after a last-minute outfit crisis left her in need of a new dress. McCartney issued a statement on Monday about designing the dress for Markle and included a clip of the gown’s sketch. “I am so proud and honoured to have been chosen by the Duchess of Sussex to make her evening gown and represent British design,” she wrote. “It has truly been one of the most humbling moments of my career. Congratulations Harry and Meghan!

I am so proud and honoured to have been chosen by the Duchess of Sussex to make her evening gown and represent British design. It has truly been one of the most humbling moments of my career. Congratulations Harry and Meghan! x Stella pic.twitter.com/BsHuK2Xg4l — Stella McCartney (@StellaMcCartney) May 21, 2018

This article has been updated with comment from McCartney.