http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/2018/05/29/saskatoon-electrician-takes-flying-axe-to-the-face-while-driving_a_23446401/?utm_hp_ref=ca-homepage
['Canadian Press']
2018-05-29 00:00:00
Saskatoon Electrician Takes Flying Axe To The Face While Driving
 
SASKATOON — A Saskatoon man says he was cut on the forehead and suffered a concussion after an axe came flying through his truck's windshield.

Mackenzie Peddle says he doesn't remember getting hit in the face while he was driving home to Saskatoon from Yorkton, Sask., earlier this month.

Mackenzie Peddle is shown in a handout photo.

He says when he came to, the truck's windshield was shattered, there was an axe lying near him and blood was spattered over his face and seats.

Peddle says he must have passed out after somehow managing to pull over to the side of Highway 16 near the community of Plunkett.

The electrician says his foot was on the brake and the truck was still in gear when a passerby approached.

A Saskatoon man says he was cut on the forehead and sustained a concussion after an axe came flying through his truck's windshield, shown in a handout photo.

RCMP say they are investigating but have no leads as to where the axe came from.

"A lady pulled over and woke me up on the side of the road. I didn't really know what happened or how long I'd been out," Peddle told CKOM Radio.

He credits the sunglasses he was wearing for saving his eye from the axe blade.

Peddle said he managed to phone RCMP and take some photos of the damage to his face and truck.

A Saskatoon man says he was cut on the forehead and sustained a concussion after an axe came flying through his truck's windshield, shown in a handout photo.

An officer arrived and took his own photos, then drove up and down the highway to see if any other debris had fallen off a vehicle.

"He went around to the farms and farmhouses, but no one had seen anything," Peddle said.

Humboldt RCMP said Tuesday they were looking for the public's help in the investigation.

A Saskatoon man says he was cut on the forehead and sustained a concussion after an axe came flying through his truck's windshield, shown in a handout photo.

Peddle said it's not the first time something has flown through his windshield while he was driving on the highway.

He said about a decade ago, he was driving his car when a long piece of rebar fell off a truck, bounced off the pavement and pierced the windshield on the driver's side — missing him by inches.