http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/05/29/the-50-best-celebrity-hairstyles-to-try-right-now_a_23446270/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage
['Julia Brucculieri', 'Entertainment Writer', 'The Huffington Post']
2018-05-29 00:00:00
The 50 Best Celebrity Hairstyles To Try Right Now
 
Whatever your style, surely you’ll find some inspiration in the hairstyles below:

Maybe you’re looking for something long and sleek, like Sandra Bullock , or you want to embrace your natural curls, like Kerry Washington , or perhaps you want to channel your inner Tan France and let your salt-and-pepper mane become your signature.

We compiled 50 of our favorite celebrity hairstyles for both men and women to try right now. With summer approaching, it’s a prime time to chop off all that fall and winter hair damage and try out a new ’do.

Looking to change things up with your hair, but not sure where to start?

Tan France Jean Baptiste Lacroix via Getty Images "Queer Eye" star Tan France is always rocking his signature salt-and-pepper 'do, with plenty of volume on top and clean, cropped sides.

Lucy Hale Matthew Eisman via Getty Images The actress' honey-blond lob hairstyle is perfect for summer.

Kerry Washington Mike Coppola via Getty Images Kerry Washington's natural curls are full of texture and volume.

Katie Holmes Roy Rochlin via Getty Images Katie Holmes' cropped cut is fun, flirty and ﻿﻿great for summer.

Constance Wu Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images Not many people can pull off short bangs, but Constance Wu really rocks them. If you're feeling a little adventurous, this is a great style to try.

Rita Moreno Frazer Harrison via Getty Images Rita Moreno is proof that gray hair is beautiful. We love her layered cut, which has plenty of volume and movement.

Bella Hadid Emma McIntyre via Getty Images The model's sleek ponytail-bun hybrid is a great style to try, especially when you want to keep frizz at bay. The more gel, the better in this case.

Lucy Liu Jemal Countess via Getty Images Lucy Liu recently debuted lighter locks, and we have to say, we love this color, especially for the warmer weather.

Anderson Cooper Gary Gershoff via Getty Images Anderson Cooper's signature silver hair always looks perfectly groomed.

Molly Ringwald Amanda Edwards via Getty Images If you want something playful for summer outings or date night, Molly Ringwald's tousled updo with shaggy bangs is perfect.

Lupita Nyong'o Taylor Hill via Getty Images Lupita Nyong'o loves changing it up when it comes to her hair. We love these " afro puffs " by stylist Vernon François.

Cate Blanchett Anadolu Agency via Getty Images Cate Blanchett's wavy blunt lob is the ultimate cool-girl hairstyle. Plus, this cut is flattering on pretty much everyone

Shailene Woodley Tibrina Hobson via Getty Images Bangs are an easy way to change up your look without going too drastic. We love Shailene Woodley's choppy fringe -- it's not too fussy yet still packs a punch.

Jenna Dewan Albert L. Ortega via Getty Images This sleek, straight bob on Jenna Dewan is timeless.

Sandra Bullock Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images Sandra Bullock's signature hairstyle -- long chocolate-brown locks with just a hint of caramel color toward the ends -- is always a winner.

Emilia Clarke Paul Bruinooge via Getty Images For those who want a bolder look, going platinum blond like Emilia Clarke is definitely an option.

Mila Kunis Steve Granitz via Getty Images Mila Kunis was recently sporting a wavy bob with bangs, which feels fresh and light for summer.

Chadwick Boseman John Shearer via Getty Images Chadwick Boseman's hair at the 2018 Met Gala featured plenty of volume on top with an expert fade on the sides.

Ava DuVernay Roy Rochlin via Getty Images Ava DuVernay considers her locks a crown adorning her head. This style, which has become her signature, is gorgeous and regal.

Jared Leto Lester Cohen via Getty Images Jared Leto's '70s-inspired shaggy hairstyle is pretty much hair goals for men and women. The subtle ombre, the long layers -- it looks effortless.

Katy Perry David Livingston via Getty Images The "American Idol" judge has been rocking her cropped blonde 'do for a while now. It's a great style for anyone looking for a bold change.

Simon Baker Dimitrios Kambouris via Getty Images Simon Baker's hairstyle has just the right amount of texture and volume.

Christina Aguilera Steve Granitz via Getty Images The classic ballerina bun, as seen on Christina Aguilera, is pretty much a perfect style for any occasion.

Claire Danes Gary Gershoff via Getty Images Claire Danes' grown-out wavy lob is chic, easy and perfect for summer.

Demi Lovato Steve Granitz via Getty Images Demi Lovato rocked this slicked back, fashion-forward "wet look" hairstyle at the 2018 Billboard awards.

Halle Berry Desiree Navarro via Getty Images Ponytails can definitely be chic, as proven by Halle Berry.

Jonathan Van Ness Dia Dipasupil via Getty Images Jonathan Van Ness is another great example of how long hair and a beard can work wonderfully on men. And he's clearly following his own advice and skipping the sulfates -- can you believe that shine?

Viola Davis Paul Zimmerman via Getty Images If you want to let your natural curls take center stage, look no further for than Viola Davis for inspiration.

Halsey Steve Granitz via Getty Images Halsey's low ponytail with tendrils framing her face is the perfect look for a romantic date night.

George Clooney Ray Tamarra via Getty Images When it comes to classic men's cuts, George Clooney's is definitely up there.

Amber Heard Venturelli via Getty Images A high ponytail like Amber Heard's is simple, chic and great for hot weather.

Margot Robbie Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images Margot Robbie's wavy bob is classic, but the asymmetric cut with one side slight longer than the other adds a modern touch.

Zayn Malik Desiree Navarro via Getty Images Zayn Malik's recent hairstyle is business on the sides, party on top.

Meghan Trainor Slaven Vlasic via Getty Images Candy-colored hair is still going strong, and we absolutely love Meghan Trainor's pastel hue. It's bold without going overboard.

Jennifer Lopez Kevin Mazur via Getty Images Go for something sleek and simple, like Jennifer Lopez's blond lob.

Christina Hendricks Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images Christina Hendricks' tousled 'do with "curtain bangs" is great for the '70s-obsessed folks out there. It's got vintage vibes but still feels current.

Sendhil Ramamurthy NBC via Getty Images We love the curl and texture in Sendhil Ramamurthy's hair.

Julianne Hough Stefanie Keenan via Getty Images Julianne Hough's long wavy style is simple and pretty with a touch of old Hollywood glam.

Claire Foy Jeff Spicer via Getty Images If you're looking for a drastic chop, why not try something like Claire Foy's grown out-bowl cut ? It's a little bit '60s mod, a little bit modern edge.

Kate Beckinsale Jon Kopaloff via Getty Images If you want to try something different for a night out, take a note from Kate Beckinsale and try a half-up half-down style.

Blake Lively Gabe Ginsberg via Getty Images Blake Lively is pretty much the queen of beachy hair, and this half-up style is just more proof of that.

Lea Seydoux Marc Piasecki via Getty Images Lea Seydoux's asymmetrical bob is a go-to chic style.

Anne Hathaway Raymond Hall via Getty Images We love Anne Hathaway's carefree waves, touched with just the right amount of golden caramel highlights.

Laura Dern Presley Ann via Getty Images Laura Dern's bouncy curls are another fun and flirty style, great for any occasion.

Emma Thompson Ian West - PA Images via Getty Images Emma Thompson's slicked-back and bleached style is unquestionably chic, and perfect for shorter hair.

Kit Harington Amanda Edwards via Getty Images Jon Snow may know nothing, but Kit Harington knows how to rock his curly hair.

Alfre Woodard David Livingston via Getty Images Alfre Woodard's full, natural curls are absolutely beautiful.

Carrie-Anne Moss Gilbert Carrasquillo via Getty Images Carrie-Anne Moss is another woman who's made a case for the slicked back, wet-look style -- it's great for showing off your makeup (or just your beautiful face in general!)

Chris Pine Gary Gershoff via Getty Images Chris Pine's classic cut is a good choice for anyone who's looking for a clean and simple style.