http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/05/19/prince-harry-and-meghan-markle-are-officially-married_a_23438624/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage
['Carly Ledbetter']
2018-05-19 00:00:00
Prince Harry And Meghan Markle Are Officially Married
 
Press Association

Markle was escorted to Windsor Castle by her mother, Doria Ragland. Prince Charles walked the former actress down the aisle, as her father, Thomas Markle, was too ill to attend the ceremony. Her father spoke to TMZ about the nuptials, telling the outlet, “My baby looks beautiful and she looks very happy. I wish I were there and I wish them all my love and all happiness.”

Ms. Meghan Markle arrives at St George's Chapel #RoyalWedding pic.twitter.com/Hj79je8glV — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) May 19, 2018

Markle then joined Harry at the altar, where he took a moment to tell Markle “You look amazing” and hearts all over the world melted:

The sweet ceremony included so many highlights, including a reading from the late Princess Diana’s sister, Lady Jane Fellowes, and a rousing sermon from Bishop Michael Curry which he included quotes from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. People also loved Karen Gibson and The Kingdom Choir singing “Stand By Me:”

Karen Gibson and @TheKingdomChoir sing "Stand by me" from the West End of the Chapel #RoyalWedding pic.twitter.com/4V1avJlY3K — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) May 19, 2018

After the wedding, Harry and Meghan stepped out to acknowledge the 200 representatives in attendance from charities that Harry supports. The crowds went WILD when the two kissed:

WPA Pool via Getty Images

WPA Pool via Getty Images

From there, the newlyweds took a carriage ride around Windsor Town that lasted about 25 minutes. Following the ride, the newlyweds headed to a lunch reception at St. George’s Hall hosted by the queen. Kensington Palace announced Saturday that the 600 wedding guests were served a variety of canapés, bowl foods and sweet canapés. Alongside the Scottish langoustines wrapped in smoked salmon with citrus crème fraiche, croquette of Confit Windsor Lamb, roasted vegetables and shallot jam or champagne and pistachio macaroons, guests got to see the bride and grooms’ lemon elderflower wedding cake. Pastry chef Claire Ptak of London’s Violet Cakes, who was actually born in California (just like Markle!), made the cake:

The wedding cake is to be served at the Reception. It was designed by Claire Ptak and features elderflower syrup made at The Queen’s residence in Sandringham from the estate’s own elderflower trees, as well as a light sponge cake uniquely formulated for the couple. #royalwedding pic.twitter.com/kt5lE4tEn9 — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) May 19, 2018

PA Wire/PA Images

Only 200 guests were invited to the following reception at Frogmore House. Hosted by Prince Charles, it’s for select family and friends of the bride and groom. En route, the bride debuted her second dress: a high-neck, shoulder-baring Stella McCartney number in lily white silk crepe. With their baby-blue insoles, Meghan’s mesh and satin Aquazzura shoes served as her “something blue.” She and Harry, who changed into a black tuxedo, set off in style in a 1968 silver-blue Jaguar E-Type Concept Zero.

PA Wire/PA Images Harry helped his bride into a blue Jag before they set off to a private reception.

After the big day, the couple will likely head back to London to their new home at Nottingham Cottage at Kensington Palace. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex plan to delay their honeymoon so they can immediately begin charity work and attend Prince Charles’ 70th Birthday Patronage Celebration, which takes place May 22. Markle and Harry officially announced their engagement on Nov. 27. They began seeing each other in 2016 after a friend set them up on a blind date. For more Prince Harry and Meghan Markle coverage, sign up for our “Watching the Royals” newsletter.