http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/05/18/the-internets-most-popular-questions-about-meghan-markle-answered_a_23438308/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage
['Taylor Pittman', 'Editora De Vozes', 'The Huffington Post']
2018-05-18 00:00:00
The Internet's Most Popular Questions About Meghan Markle, Answered
 
With just days to go before Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s royal wedding, the internet has a lot of questions. While Harry has captured the world’s attention for decades, Meghan has piqued many people’s interests in the last few years, first for her acting role on “Suits” and her humanitarian work, and now as she prepares to join the British royal family.

We wanted to know what exactly the internet was wondering about Meghan. So we mimicked a Google search about the former actress to learn what people were searching in real time and turned to Google Trends to see popular searches over the last year and in the last 30 days. Here are some of the most common questions, keywords and searches associated with Meghan on Google.

‘Meghan Markle father’

In a 2015 essay for Elle, Meghan shared that her dad, Thomas Markle, and her mom, Doria Ragland, met in the late 1970s. Doria was a temp at the studio where Thomas was working as a lighting director for a soap opera. Thomas also worked on the sitcom “Married With Children,” which Meghan brought up in an interview with Esquire in 2013.

“I wasn’t allowed to watch it at home,” she said. “I could watch the end credits so I could give the screen a kiss when I saw my dad’s name go by.”

The recent surge in searches for Meghan’s dad likely has to do with his probable absence the day of the wedding. On May 4, Kensington Palace confirmed that Thomas would walk his daughter down the aisle. In the weeks prior to the wedding, her dad was photographed preparing for the event by reading books about Britain, exercising and being fitted for a suit.

Reports emerged this week that he had staged the photos, and Thomas told TMZ he was responsible. He also said he recently had a heart attack and that he would not be attending the wedding. On Tuesday, Thomas seemed to change his mind, telling TMZ he would be attending, then he changed his story again, saying he had a major heart surgery scheduled and would not be traveling to Britain for the event.

Kensington Palace has since put out a statement from Meghan confirming that her father will not attend the wedding.

“I have always cared for my father and hope he can be given the space he needs to focus on his health,” she wrote in the statement. She also thanked “everyone who has offered generous messages of support.” Many wondered if Meghan’s mom would walk her down the aisle, but Kensington Palace tweeted Friday that Prince Charles will accompany her. ‘Meghan Markle mother’

Unlike Meghan’s father, her mom has met Prince Harry. The royal and his future mother-in-law were both in attendance at the 2017 Invictus Games closing ceremony. During Meghan and Harry’s first joint interview after their engagement, Harry described Ragland as “amazing.”