https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/dinesh-dsouza-pardoned-by-donald-trump_us_5b0ff689e4b0fcd6a83449dd
['Marina Fang', 'Reporter']
2018-05-31 09:36:01-04:00
Dinesh D’Souza Pardoned By Trump For Campaign Finance Violation
 
President Donald Trump on Thursday issued “a full pardon” to Dinesh D’Souza, a conservative activist and provocateur who regularly peddles conspiracy theories.

D’Souza pleaded guilty in 2014 to violating campaign finance laws with an illegal donation to a GOP Senate candidate.

Trump announced the pardon in a tweet, claiming D’Souza “was treated very unfairly by our government!”

Will be giving a Full Pardon to Dinesh D’Souza today. He was treated very unfairly by our government! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018

Trump believes that D’Souza was “a victim of selective prosecution for violations of campaign finance laws,” according to a statement from the White House explaining the pardon.

It also noted that D’Souza “accepted responsibility for his actions, and also completed community service by teaching English to citizens and immigrants seeking citizenship.”

All of Trump’s presidential pardons have been outside the standard process for issuing pardons run by the Department of Justice’s Office of the Pardon Attorney.

He pardoned a former Navy sailor, Kristian Saucier, after Saucier made his case on Trump’s favorite TV network, Fox News.

In August, Trump pardoned right-wing, anti-immigrant sheriff Joe Arpaio. Arpaio was found guilty for criminal contempt after violating a federal judge’s order instructing him to stop racially profiling Latino drivers, whom he and his office regularly rounded up because he suspected them of being undocumented immigrants.

The president also issued a pardon for Scooter Libby, who was convicted for lying and obstructing justice after the leak of then-covert CIA agent Valerie Plame’s identity.

Last week, the president issued a posthumous pardon to boxing champion Jack Johnson, which came at the recommendation of actor Sylvester Stallone.

A DOJ spokeswoman confirmed to HuffPost that D’Souza’s pardon did not go through the Office of the Pardon Attorney. She declined to comment further.

Also on Thursday, Trump said on Air Force One that he’s considering issuing pardons or commuting sentences for former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich (D) and cook and TV personality Martha Stewart. Blagojevich was on Trump’s “Celebrity Apprentice” TV series, and Stewart hosted “The Apprentice: Martha Stewart,” a spinoff of Trump’s “The Apprentice” series.

YOU CAN TAKE THE BOY OUT OF THE GHETTO...Watch this vulgar man show his stuff, while America cowers in embarrassment pic.twitter.com/C9yLG4QoOK — Dinesh D'Souza (@DineshDSouza) February 18, 2015

Later Thursday, D’Souza thanked Trump for the pardon and criticized “Obama and his stooges.”

Obama & his stooges tried to extinguish my American dream & destroy my faith in America. Thank you @realDonaldTrump for fully restoring both — Dinesh D'Souza (@DineshDSouza) May 31, 2018